            DOCUMENTS IN THIS PACKET INCLUDE:


                LETTERS FROM CITIZENS TO THE
                   MAYOR OR CITY COUNCIL


    RESPONSES FROM STAFF TO LETTERS FROM CITIZENS


        ITEMS FROM MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS


      ITEMS FROM OTHER COMMITTEES AND AGENCIES


ITEMS FROM CITY, COUNTY, STATE, AND REGIONAL AGENCIES




     Prepared for:          12/31/2018
      Document dates: 12/12/2018 – 12/19/2018

                                Set 1
 Note: Documents for every category may not have been received for packet
                      reproduction in a given week.




                                                                      701-32
                                                                                      COUNCIL MEETING

                                                                                      ✔
                                                                                              12/17/2018
                                                                                          Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                                    1
Carnahan, David

From:              Nadia Naik <nadianaik@gmail.com>
Sent:              Sunday, December 16, 2018 4:05 PM
To:                Council, City
Cc:                Clerk, City; Minor, Beth; De Geus, Robert; Shikada, Ed; Pat Burt
Subject:           Public Comment for Study Session with Supervisor Simitian
Attachments:       Stanford GUP DA Naik Burt Comments 112918.pdf


Dear City Council Members,

I will not be able to attend the Study Session with Supervisor Simitian, but I hope you will agendize a future
meeting on the Stanford GUP and Development agreement very soon.

City Staff is recommending doing a University Avenue area plan where the discussion of how to deal with Palo
Alto Avenue could be addressed. We support this idea, but disagree that it should begin in late 2019. We must
begin the conversation ASAP because of the GUP and Development agreement timelines.

Recently, I submitted a letter to the County (co-authored by Pat Burt) where we argue that Stanford is an
adjacent jurisdiction and, as such, is at least co-equally responsible for the northern Palo Alto grade
separations and any upgrades that will be necessary at the University Avenue station to handle future Caltrain
ridership. I've attached the letter for your review.

These two items are intertwined and efforts to address them should come before the council ASAP.

Thanks for your consideration.

Nadia Naik




                                                           1
November 29, 2018


County Supervisors Cindy Chaves and Joe Simitian
County Government Center
Tenth Floor - East Wing
70 West Hedding Street
San Jose, CA 95110

Re: Stanford Development Agreement

Dear Supervisors Chavez and Simitian,

We are writing today to recommend that Stanford be responsible for their fair
share of Palo Alto/Stanford area Caltrain grade separations and station
improvements. We’d like to preface our remarks by stating that the Development
Agreement should focus on public benefits and not be at the expense of mitigations
necessary to address any environmental impact.

Change is Coming

Huge regional growth is causing jurisdictions along the peninsula corridor to address the
biggest infrastructure projects many of those cities have ever faced, the need to
eliminate at-grade rail crossings. These projects are being driven by the pending
doubling of the number of trains per hour planned to occur over the next decade.

Caltrain is already the backbone transit system for the peninsula and its expansion is
essential for the TDM programs in jurisdictions throughout the line, including Stanford
and Palo Alto. The City of Palo Alto has determined that the gate down times and signal
recovery periods, resulting from the pending 20 total trains per hour, will render existing
at-grade rail crossings functionally gridlocked, severely hindering car, bus, bike and
pedestrian access routes to the Stanford campus.

Stanford as a Regional Jurisdiction with Financial Obligations

The basis for Stanford’s fair share obligation to fund grade separations and related
station improvements is fundamentally different from other GUP related mitigations that
are determined by Stanford’s incremental growth impacts. Mitigations for affordable
housing, schools or traffic impacts are calculated based on the additional needs
generated by the impacts of GUP growth. In contrast, Caltrain expansion is not
happening due to specific new development from the City of Palo Alto or Stanford, but
rather it is being imposed on jurisdictions because of the overwhelming cumulative
regional needs and Caltrain’s expanding vital role in regional transportation. The need
for each jurisdiction to solve grade crossing problems is essential to maintaining their
existing circulation after accommodating the increased Caltrain service that is the
backbone of TDM programs in the City and at Stanford.
Stanford has recognized their reliance on Caltrain expansion and is consequently
playing a key financial and planning role in the development of the new Caltrain
Business Plan. Stanford’s growth and reliance on Caltrain is also a key driver in the
need to expand Caltrain service. Together, their reliance on the grade crossings for
campus access and their need for expansion of Caltrain capacity for their TDM program
arguably make Stanford’s cost share obligation at least equal to that of the city.
Throughout the corridor, much of these costs are being absorbed by the impacted
jurisdictions. As a major unincorporated jurisdictional entity, Stanford is responsible for
their share of the local grade crossing expense.

The Caltrain corridor is essentially a permeable membrane that physically separates the
Stanford campus from critical transportation corridors to the East (101, East Bay, etc.)
The expansion of Caltrain service and the subsequently required grade separations are
forcing a full re-evaluation of how East-West traffic travels across the Caltrain line. In
the case of North Palo Alto, the City of Palo Alto and Stanford University represent the
two jurisdictions that share the crossings. The potential closure of some existing at-
grade crossings is being considered (Churchill and Palo Alto Avenue), which could
increase traffic on existing grade separations (Embarcadero and University Avenue)
that may then need to be upgraded and expanded to handle the increased flow.

In addition, both Palo Alto train stations (University and California Avenue) will likely
need to be scaled differently to reflect passenger demand. Significant changes may
include improved circulation for all modes, bus/shuttle stops, parking lots or garages for
vehicles and bikes, drop-off areas.

The Tri-Party Agreement Role

Since the 1980’s, the Stanford GUPs have been framed by the Tri-Party Agreement
(Santa Clara County, Palo Alto and Stanford) which embodies a recognition of how the
three parties are intertwined and their respective responsibilities. This agreement
effectively acknowledges Stanford as its own jurisdiction under the governance of the
county. The GUP is the means under the Tri-Party Agreement framework by which the
county can obligate Stanford to meet its fair share of what will be a very costly and
significant project. The Agreement requires Stanford to provide for “all municipal
services”. Roadway and transit services are essential municipal services that Stanford
should share the responsibility to provide. Stanford’s Marguerite bus system, which by
necessity extends beyond the campus boundaries, is a key part of their transit service
obligation. Stanford must also meet this emerging grade separation roadway and transit
obligation.

Recommended Actions

The City of Palo Alto currently has underway a multimillion-dollar program to evaluate
grade separation design alternatives, their impacts and select alternatives for
implementation. The VTA Measure B tax is providing the initial significant down
payment for design and construction. However, these funds will need to be
supplemented by significant local and regional/state dollars. Because the design
selection and cost determination will not be resolved prior to the GUP and Development
Agreement approvals, the Stanford fair share dollar amounts will need to be determined
subsequent to the GUP approval. Consequently, the Development Agreement should
include language that frames Stanford’s fair share obligation for amounts to be
determined based on the costs and the portion of those costs that will need to be
borne by the two local jurisdictions, Palo Alto and Stanford.

Sincerely,


Pat Burt
Palo Alto resident and former Mayor of Palo Alto
patburt11@gmail.com


Nadia Naik
Palo Alto resident and Co-founder, Californians Advocating Responsible Rail Design
nadianaik@gmail.com
	  
                                                                                  COUNCIL MEETING

                                                                                  ✔
                                                                                          12/17/2018
                                                                                      Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                                2
Carnahan, David

From:              Don McDougall <mcdougall.don@gmail.com>
Sent:              Sunday, December 16, 2018 8:43 PM
To:                Council, City
Subject:           Item 2 Dec 17, Historical Museum Extension and Roth building
Attachments:       Roth and EV.docx


Honorable Mayor and Council Members

       Reference Item 2, December 17, 2018

        As Council considers the staff recommendation of an extension of the agreement with the Palo Alto
History Museum, I would like to suggest consideration of the allocation of the $665,000 funds raised by the
sale of the TDR funds made available through Environmental Volunteers.
        EV continues to make effective and efficient use of the City owned EcoCenter. The EcoCenter houses a
small staff, equipment used for classroom and outdoor education, and meeting center. It hosts environmental
home‐school classes, meetings and EV training. EV works in close cooperation with the Baylands rangers and
in a few weeks EV will co‐host a king‐tide event with the city.
        Originally Environmental Volunteers was awarded only $300,000 of the $965,000 sale of TDR benefits.
At the time EV misspoke, saying and incremental funds would simply be used for operating costs including
maintenance. EV previously used funds raised for operating to complete the reconstruction and now has
further capital improvement projects for the EcoCenter. Under its new ED, Elliott Wright, EV is successfully
focused on generating the needed operating funds.
        I would like to ask for the Council’s consideration of allocating 10% of the $665,000 EV‐generated TDR
funds to Environmental Volunteers when and if the funds become available. Or please explore alternative
sources for this purpose.
        Thank you for your consideration of support for this valuable community resource.

       Don McDougall
       Palo Alto resident
       650 815 1455

       This letter is submitted as a resident, not as a representative of Environmental Volunteers. A copy is
attached




                                                        1
       Reference Item 2, December 17, 2018

       As Council considers the staff recommendation of an extension of the agreement with
the Palo Alto History Museum, I would like to suggest consideration of the allocation of the
$665,000 funds raised by the sale of the TDR funds made available through Environmental
Volunteers.
       EV continues to make effective and efficient use of the City owned EcoCenter. The
EcoCenter houses a small staff, equipment used for classroom and outdoor education, and
meeting center. It hosts environmental home-school classes, meetings and EV training. EV
works in close cooperation with the Baylands rangers and in a few weeks EV will co-host a king-
tide event with the city.
       Originally Environmental Volunteers was awarded only $300,000 of the $965,000 sale of
TDR benefits. At the time EV misspoke, saying and incremental funds would simply be used for
operating costs including maintenance. EV previously used funds raised for operating to
complete the reconstruction and now has further capital improvement projects for the
EcoCenter. Under its new ED, Elliott Wright, EV is successfully focused on generating the
needed operating funds.
       I would like to ask for the Council’s consideration of allocating 10% of the $665,000 EV-
generated TDR funds to Environmental Volunteers when and if the funds become available. Or
please explore alternative sources for this purpose.
       Thank you for your consideration of support for this valuable community resource.

       Don McDougall
       Palo Alto resident

       This note is submitted on my behalf only, not as a representative of Environmental
Volunteers.
Carnahan, David

From:                mollytinney <mollytinney@gmail.com>
Sent:                Monday, December 17, 2018 11:19 AM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             PAHM


Dear Council Members,
I am unable to attend the City Council meeting tonight but wanted to express my support of the Palo Alto History
Museum. The museum will be a great asset to our city and it’s residents. I hope that the city continues its support of this
very important project.
With gratitude,

Molly Tinney
Secretary,
Palo Alto Historical Association




Sent from my iPhone




                                                             1
Carnahan, David

From:               Barbara Lim Hing <luckco@gmail.com>
Sent:               Monday, December 17, 2018 11:26 AM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            Palo Alto Museum


Super Investments! You got our support!

Palo Alto Museum is a place our community can bring together what's important to all of us

‐Our History

‐Our Desires to Move forward to Make History that Will Include Every Group that Contributed to our Community

‐Our Diversity

‐Our Progress

Our Appreciation & Respect for Every Ethnic & Cultural groups &

Many More Good Stuff!

Go for it, all!

We can't make it tonight but the Museum has our support,
Ray & Barbara Hing




                                                           2
Carnahan, David

From:                 Nancy Shepherd <nlshep@pacbell.net>
Sent:                 Monday, December 17, 2018 12:18 PM
To:                   Council, City
Cc:                   laurabajuk@paloaltohistorymuseum.org; rich@richgreenink.com
Subject:              Roth Building Agenda and Action


Dear Council,

I am writing in support of the staff recommendation to update the lease agreement between the Palo Alto History Museum and the
designation of the Roth Building site as parkland. Please approve this action.

The Palo Alto story is historical and impactful to our community and the world—I look forward to breaking ground and installing the
Museum. In fact, I think the City should help facilitate this effort by including in the lease a modification that would allow the
Museum to rehabilitate the building and fundraise simultaneously. The $2.88M City funds and the Sea Scout Building TDRs are
already designated for the Roth Building rehab. Logistics can be worked out with the City Council Task Force and staff to ensure
donor fundraising is completed timely in the six-month lease update.

Many donors, community members and volunteers are confident that once under construction, the rehabilitation of the Roth Building
and installation of the museum will coincide with completing the fundraising requirements.

Why wait.

Thank you for this consideration, and congratulations to PAHM and the community for making this project a success.

Sincerely,

Nancy Shepherd, former Mayor City of Palo Alto




                                                                 3
                                                                           COUNCIL MEETING

                                                                            ✔
                                                                                    12/17/2018
                                                                                Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                          3
Carnahan, David

From:               martin@sommer.net
Sent:               Thursday, December 6, 2018 4:58 PM
To:                 Council, City
Cc:                 arobeso@menlopark.org
Subject:            Attn: Rail Committee, Palo Alto


Email sent to Angela Obeso, City of Menlo Park:

Please address the issue of: a) closing the Palo Alto Ave rail crossing, in conjunction with b) taking Alma
directly across the creek between Menlo Park and Palo Alto.

Thank you!

Martin



--
Martin Sommer
650-346-5307
martin@sommer.net
http://www.linkedin.com/in/martinsommer

"Turn technical vision into reality."




-------- Original Message --------

Subject:Great meeting you last night
  Date:2018‐12‐06 10:24
  From:martin@sommer.net
     To:arobeso@menlopark.org



Good morning Angela,

It was great meeting you last night at the Menlo Park Caltrain meeting. I had proposed the idea of closing
the Palo Alto Ave rail crossing in Palo Alto, and taking Alma directly across the creek between Menlo Park
and Palo Alto. I had also suggested moving the small El Palo Alto Park to the other side of the tracks, and
extend the El Camino Park.

This idea would: a) eliminate the cost of another grade separation, b) eliminate train noise wrt to current
crossing, and c) lower the number of track crossings, between Menlo Park and Palo Alto.

Please let me know, if I can help you explain this idea to Menlo Park and/or Palo Alto stake holders.

Thanks again,

Martin
                                                         1
--
Martin Sommer
650-346-5307
martin@sommer.net
http://www.linkedin.com/in/martinsommer

"Turn technical vision into reality."




                                          2
Carnahan, David

From:               Clerk, City
Sent:               Tuesday, December 11, 2018 10:50 AM
To:                 Carnahan, David
Subject:            FW: Public Comment: Request to add an alternative for study for the Meadow/Charleston Grade
                    separations
Attachments:        CARRD Comment - Short Electric tunnel only recommendation.pdf


From: Nadia Naik <nadianaik@gmail.com>
Sent: Tuesday, December 11, 2018 10:19 AM
To: Clerk, City <city.clerk@cityofpaloalto.org>
Subject: Fwd: Public Comment: Request to add an alternative for study for the Meadow/Charleston Grade separations

Hi,

I'm resending this to ensure it is included in the City Council packet for December 17th.

Thanks in advance for your help!

Nadia Naik
650-814-1820

‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
From: Nadia Naik <nadianaik@gmail.com>
Date: Mon, Nov 12, 2018 at 9:10 PM
Subject: Public Comment: Request to add an alternative for study for the Meadow/Charleston Grade separations
To: <city.council@cityofpaloalto.org>
Cc: James Keene <James.Keene@cityofpaloalto.org>, Shikada, Ed <ed.shikada@cityofpaloalto.org>, De Geus, Robert
<Robert.DeGeus@cityofpaloalto.org>, Goodwin Eileen <apexstr@pacbell.net>, <etty.mercurio@aecom.com>,
<millette.litzinger@aecom.com>, Elizabeth Alexis <ealexis@gmail.com>



Dear City Council Members,

We support the Staff Report recommendation to not eliminate any grade separation alternatives at this
time. While the Viaduct is the least favored alternative, it remains worthy of further analysis because it is the
lowest cost and allows more connectivity than a Hybrid (which functions effectively as a wall).

In addition, we would like to propose an alternative that was mentioned previously: a short tunnel for
electrified trains, with freight remaining at the surface.

Please see the attached letter for further details.

If you have any questions, please let me know.

Nadia Naik
Co‐founder, CARRD
                                                         1
                                                       	  
	  
November	  12,	  2018	  
	  
	  
Subject:	  Recommendation	  of	  adding	  alternative	  of	  short	  tunnel	  for	  electrified	  trains	  only	  with	  
freight	  at	  the	  surface	  for	  Meadow	  and	  Charleston	  alternatives.	  	  
	  
	  
Dear	  City	  Council	  Members,	  	  
	  
We	  support	  the	  Staff	  Report	  recommendation	  to	  not	  eliminate	  any	  grade	  separation	  
alternatives	  at	  this	  time.	  While	  the	  Viaduct	  is	  the	  least	  favored	  alternative,	  it	  remains	  worthy	  of	  
further	  analysis	  because	  it	  is	  the	  lowest	  cost	  and	  allows	  more	  connectivity	  than	  a	  Hybrid	  (which	  
functions	  effectively	  as	  a	  wall).	  	  
	  
In	  addition,	  we	  would	  like	  to	  propose	  an	  alternative	  that	  was	  mentioned	  previously:	  a	  short	  
tunnel	  for	  electrified	  trains,	  with	  freight	  remaining	  at	  the	  surface.	  The	  slope,	  clearance,	  
ventilation	  and	  Fire	  Life	  Safety	  requirements	  driven	  by	  freight	  and	  other	  diesel	  trains	  in	  the	  
tunnels	  add	  significant	  costs	  to	  the	  tunnel	  proposal	  currently	  under	  consideration.	  	  Freight	  
tentatively	  remaining	  at	  the	  surface	  for	  the	  present	  would	  not	  liberate	  all	  of	  the	  ROW	  land	  for	  
other	  uses,	  but	  the	  vehicular	  crossing	  capacity	  issue	  would	  be	  addressed.	  	  	  
	  
A	  key	  condition	  has	  recently	  changed	  along	  the	  corridor	  making	  this	  a	  feasible	  alternative;	  
Caltrain	  is	  no	  longer	  considering	  running	  both	  diesel	  and	  electric	  trains	  and	  will	  now	  have	  a	  fully	  
electric	  fleet.	  In	  addition,	  the	  Dumbarton	  Rail	  project	  recently	  received	  approval	  to	  begin	  its	  
investigation	  of	  whether	  to	  rebuild	  the	  old	  rail	  bridge	  that	  formerly	  carried	  freight	  across	  the	  
Bay.	  	  If	  this	  came	  to	  fruition,	  freight	  might	  be	  partially	  or	  fully	  diverted	  to	  a	  Dumbarton	  route	  
and	  no	  longer	  pass	  through	  Palo	  Alto,	  leaving	  the	  right-­‐of-­‐way	  above	  the	  tunnel	  free	  for	  other	  
uses.	  	  	  
	  
We	  have	  identified	  a	  similar	  tunneling	  project,	  the	  San	  Francisco	  Central	  Subway	  Tunnel,	  
which	  seems	  to	  indicate	  that	  tunneling	  may	  even	  be	  much	  cheaper	  than	  a	  trench.	  	  
	  
HMM	  Trench	  Study:	  
	  
As	  you	  may	  recall,	  in	  2014,	  HMM	  gave	  a	  rough	  estimated	  cost	  for	  a	  trench	  below	  Meadow	  and	  
Charleston	  at	  $488	  Million	  (in	  2014	  dollars).	  	  
	  
Here	  was	  the	  breakdown:	  	  
	                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2	  


	  




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           	  
	  
	  
Central	  Subway	  Tunnel	  Without	  Freight	  
	  
Also	  in	  2014,	  the	  Central	  Subway	  project	  in	  San	  Francisco	  completed	  a	  1.7	  mile	  dual	  subway	  
tunnel	  using	  two	  20.7	  ft	  diameter	  tunnel	  boring	  machines	  (TBM).	  While	  the	  overall	  cost	  of	  the	  
project	  is	  very	  high,	  the	  vast	  majority	  of	  the	  cost	  is	  related	  to	  several	  very	  deep	  and	  complex	  
stations.	  The	  cost	  to	  complete	  the	  tunnel	  portion	  of	  the	  project:	  $234	  million	  dollars	  (2014	  
dollars).	  For	  reference,	  the	  distance	  from	  Loma	  Verde	  Ave	  to	  San	  Antonio	  Road	  in	  Palo	  Alto	  is	  
1.6	  miles.	  Palo	  Alto	  would	  likely	  have	  a	  additional	  costs	  beyond	  what	  was	  needed	  on	  the	  
subway	  project	  (signaling,	  larger	  diameter	  bore,	  etc.)	  but	  the	  price	  difference	  is	  worth	  
investigating	  and	  maybe	  minimal	  with	  the	  use	  of	  a	  single	  bore	  tunnel.	  
	  
Unlike	  Palo	  Alto’s	  right	  of	  way,	  these	  tunnels	  were	  built	  in	  densely	  urban	  San	  Francisco	  and	  
under	  an	  active	  BART	  line1.	  The	  TBMs	  went	  through	  various	  soils	  ranging	  from	  soft	  soils	  to	  
thinly	  bedded	  siltstone,	  shale	  and	  sandstone	  bedrock	  -­‐	  with	  some	  area	  designated	  as	  
“Potentially	  Gassy	  with	  Special	  Conditions”	  by	  Cal/OSHA2.	  The	  TBMs	  also	  had	  to	  navigate	  the	  
	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  
1	            http://www.therobbinscompany.com/project-category/epb-tbm/	  
	  
2	            http://www.therobbinscompany.com/project-category/epb-tbm/	  
	                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3	  


steep	  and	  turning	  alignment	  in	  an	  area	  where	  they	  dealt	  with	  low	  cover,	  nearby	  utilities,	  and	  
sensitive	  structures	  requiring	  analyses	  and	  precautions	  to	  limit	  settlement	  impact	  and	  ensure	  
the	  structures	  in	  downtown	  SF	  were	  safe.	  	  Given	  Palo	  Alto	  is	  in	  a	  suburban	  area	  with	  less	  
constraints,	  it	  seems	  reasonable	  to	  consider	  this	  alternative	  closely.	  	  
	  
Palo	  Alto	  Short	  Tunnel	  
	  
Another	  way	  to	  reduce	  the	  cost	  of	  a	  tunnel	  is	  to	  reduce	  the	  diameter.	  In	  2014,	  the	  High	  Speed	  
Rail	  Authority’s	  White	  Paper	  on	  Tunneling	  describes	  how	  they	  achieved	  significant	  cost	  
reductions	  by	  reducing	  maximum	  operating	  speeds	  assumptions	  in	  the	  tunnels	  from	  220	  mph	  
to	  200	  mph,	  thereby	  allowing	  them	  to	  reduce	  tunnel	  diameters	  from	  29.5’	  to	  28’	  ID	  (Inside	  
Diameter).	  3	  
	  
CARRD	  requested	  from	  AECOM	  information	  on	  the	  tunnel	  assumptions	  being	  used	  for	  the	  City	  
wide	  tunnel	  (which	  include	  freight)	  and	  they	  responded	  that	  they	  are	  using	  a	  “28	  ft	  Inside	  
Diameter	  Tunnel”	  which	  would	  large	  enough	  to	  allow	  200	  mph	  speeds.	  A	  significantly	  smaller	  
diameter	  would	  be	  required	  to	  accommodate	  planned	  speeds	  of	  110	  mph.	  And,	  as	  noted	  in	  our	  
previous	  public	  comment	  on	  height	  clearances,	  the	  Caltrain	  Electrification	  EIR	  specifically	  notes	  
that	  the	  clearance	  levels	  at	  the	  San	  Francisquito	  creek	  bridge	  (where	  freight	  passes	  today)	  is	  
actually	  19ft.	  It	  is	  therefore	  worth	  investigating	  whether	  the	  tunnel	  dimensions	  for	  a	  short,	  
electrified	  train	  only	  tunnel	  in	  Palo	  Alto	  where	  maximum	  speed	  for	  both	  Caltrain	  and	  HSR	  is	  110	  
miles	  per	  hour	  would	  allow	  us	  to	  have	  a	  tunnel	  diameter	  that	  is	  less	  than	  28’.	  	  
	  
Other	  key	  things	  to	  consider	  for	  the	  short	  tunnel	  with	  freight	  on	  the	  surface	  (EOT)	  option:	  	  
	  
       • Without	  freight,	  the	  1%	  grade	  requirement	  could	  more	  readily	  change	  to	  2%	  or	  even	  3%	  
             grade,	  which	  would	  allow	  for	  more	  design	  flexibility.	  
       • Caltrain	  and	  freight	  could	  continue	  operations	  during	  construction	  with	  minimal	  
             disruption	  except	  at	  the	  site	  of	  tunnel	  boring	  machine	  entrance	  and	  exit.	  
       • Traffic	  during	  construction	  would	  be	  minimally	  disrupted	  
       • Tunnels	  in	  stations	  are	  expensive,	  but	  this	  option	  would	  not	  impact	  stations	  
       • Tunnels	  are	  faster	  to	  build.	  Construction	  time	  is	  dramatically	  reduced	  because	  the	  work	  
             window	  issues	  and	  the	  phasing	  required	  on	  the	  road	  side	  are	  much	  less.	  	  
       • It	  would	  go	  under	  the	  utilities,	  reducing	  the	  cost.	  	  
       • It	  could	  go	  under	  the	  creeks.	  	  
       • It	  does	  not	  impact	  the	  streets.	  	  
       • The	  equivalent	  of	  shoofly	  tracks	  are	  needed	  near	  the	  portal,	  but	  not	  along	  the	  entire	  
             right-­‐of-­‐way.	  	  



	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  
	  
3	  California High-Speed Rail Program Whitepaper On Cost Reduction Strategies, July 25, 2014

	  
	                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4	  


          •          With	  careful	  planning	  and	  analysis,	  TBM’s	  can	  be	  reused	  -­‐	  perhaps	  by	  other	  cities	  along	  
                     the	  corridor.	  4	  
          •          In	  the	  future,	  some	  or	  all	  freight	  could	  be	  re-­‐routed	  over	  the	  Dumbarton	  Rail	  route	  
                     (currently	  being	  studied)	  thus	  freeing	  up	  space	  along	  the	  right-­‐of-­‐way	  for	  other	  potential	  
                     land	  use	  options.	  
          •          Temporary	  space	  for	  the	  tunnel	  portal	  may	  be	  necessary	  and	  could	  require	  minimal	  
                     eminent	  domain	  that	  could	  be	  returned	  to	  the	  housing	  stock	  on	  completion	  of	  the	  
                     project.	  	  
          •          The	  ROW	  closer	  to	  San	  Antonio	  road	  is	  much	  wider	  than	  other	  parts	  of	  the	  City	  (150	  ft	  
                     wide).	  If	  the	  TBM	  was	  launched	  from	  that	  end,	  then	  the	  removal	  requires	  less	  space.	  	  
	  
To	  see	  the	  space	  required	  for	  extracting	  a	  TBM,	  see	  this	  video	  showing	  the	  removal	  of	  the	  TBMs	  
used	  on	  the	  Central	  Subway	  project	  in	  SF.	  https://bit.ly/2PpntNC	  	  Note	  the	  size	  of	  the	  
extraction	  point	  is	  quite	  small.	  	  
	  
Summary:	  	  
	  
Preliminary	  design	  of	  grade	  separations	  are	  vague	  and	  costs	  climb	  when	  one	  considers	  the	  
issues	  of	  staging,	  prolonged	  construction,	  utility	  relocation,	  ground	  water	  issues,	  and	  
maintaining	  operations	  on	  a	  heavily	  trafficked	  railway	  during	  construction.	  What	  initially	  seems	  
like	  a	  cheaper	  solution,	  can	  become	  expensive	  quickly	  when	  these	  costs	  are	  all	  tallied	  up.	  For	  
this	  reason,	  we	  support	  the	  inclusion	  of	  a	  short	  electric	  train	  only	  tunnel	  with	  freight	  on	  the	  
surface.	  	  
	  
If	  you	  would	  like	  any	  additional	  information	  or	  have	  any	  additional	  questions,	  please	  let	  us	  
know.	  	  
	  
	  
Sincerely,	  	  
	  
Nadia	  Naik	  and	  Elizabeth	  Alexis	  
Co-­‐founders	  
CARRD	  
	  




	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  
4	   https://www.herrenknecht.com/en/services/global-services/tbm-refurbishment.html

	  
                                                                                 COUNCIL MEETING

                                                                                  ✔
                                                                                          12/17/2018
                                                                                      Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                                 3
Carnahan, David

From:              Nadia Naik <nadianaik@gmail.com>
Sent:              Wednesday, December 12, 2018 1:31 PM
To:                Clerk, City; Minor, Beth
Cc:                Council, City; Dave Shen; Megan Kanne; Carrasco, Tony; Inyoung Cho; Philip Burton; Parag Patkar;
                   Mandar Borkar; Kari Hodgson; Patricia Lau; De Geus, Robert; Shikada, Ed; Keene, James;
                   etty.mercurio@aecom.com; Goodwin Eileen; millette.litzinger@aecom.com
Subject:           Public Comment for Packet for December 17th meeting
Attachments:       FINAL - CARRD Freighless tunnel.pptx.pdf


Attached is a presentation I'd like to submit as public comment for December 17th meeting related to the Palo
Alto grade separations.

It is a more visual presentation to support my previous written comments on this subject (also in the packet).

Thanks
Nadia Naik




                                                         1
                                  Design Alternative for
                               ONLY Meadow and Charleston

                                              Nadia Naik
                                              December 17th, 2018
                                              Palo Alto City Council




                                                 info@calhsr.com
                                                 www.calhsr.com


Presenter version 2018.09.01




             Problem

                  PA residents prefer an underground solution.

                  Tunnels at stations are costly (high cost of burying station)

                  Trench under Meadow and Charleston may be fatally flawed
                   because of the creeks

                  Hybrid and Viaduct options are not well liked

             Goal of this concept:
              Creative solution
              Addresses community preference for underground solution
              Increases design alternatives
              Minimize costs and impacts
    Design Challenges:

       Caltrain and Freight must maintain operations during
        construction

       Temporary “Passing Tracks” during construction are highly
        disruptive and expensive

       Underground utility relocation is complicated and costly

       Matadero, Barron and Adobe Creeks create obstacles to
        underground alternatives

       Freight trains can’t handle steeper grades and constrain
        design alternatives

       Diesel freight tunnels require extra ventilation that electric
3       trains don’t need (>$).




    Existing Opportunities?

       Only 3 freight trains per day in PA – all at night and
        don’t impact circulation

       Freight makes up less than 5% of operations on the
        corridor

       Without freight, we have more design flexibility

       Future Dumbarton Rail Corridor improvements could
        reduce or eliminate freight trains

       Future freight could be electrified
     New Design Alternative:

              A short, electric train only tunnel
           under Meadow and Charleston ONLY
        with a single track of freight on the surface.
                 Requires two twin bore tunnels (TBM)

            We are NOT advocating this as a SOLUTION
    Only that it be included as an ALTERNATIVE for further study

       This is a NEW idea that developed based on the early issues
    identified by preliminary AECOM engineering – it was NOT part of
                    the original Master List of Alternatives
5



      Electric train tunnel with 1 track of freight on surface




                      Single track Freight At-grade



                          Caltrain/HSR Tunnel
Conceptual example

      Alameda Trench Corridor
      (E. Compton Blvd and
      Alameda Street, Compton )


     • NOTE: This shows a TRENCH –
       we are proposing TUNNEL

     • Right of Way (ROW) is 100 feet
       (same as South Palo Alto)

     • This ROW fits 4 tracks – PA would
       have 2 Caltrain (in tunnel) and
       one freight track (at grade)

     • A simple curve is needed to
       separate the single freight track

     • 3 tracks enter a trench in Alameda
       instead of a tunnel – but similar
       concept
 7



      Considerations:

        Electric only tunnel can be >2% grade (design
         flexibility)
        Goes under creeks (avoiding potential fatal flaw)
        Tunnel goes under the utilities, reducing the cost.
        Can maintain Caltrain/Freight operations during
         construction
        Tunnels without a station are much cheaper
        Tunnels are faster to build.
        Construction time is much shorter - less work window
         issues and little to no road disruption.
         Additional Considerations:

          Temporary passing tracks (shoo-fly tracks) only at tunnel
           portal entrance & exit vs entire right-of-way (saves money)
           With careful planning, TBM’s can be reused by other cities

          Some or all future freight may be re-routed over Dumbarton
           Rail route (currently being studied) leaving space for other
           land use options.
          Needs further study: Temporary space for the tunnel portal
           may be necessary and could require minimal commercial or
           residential eminent domain that could be returned to the
           commercial/housing stock on completion of the project

         Source on TBM Reuse: https://www.herrenknecht.com/en/services/global-services/tbm-
         refurbishment.html




       Comparative Project:
                Central Subway Tunnel in SF
          Built in 2014 in downtown San Francisco
          Two twin bore machines (TBM) with 20.7 ft diameter for 1.7 miles
          $234 million dollars (2014 dollars)
          Built under an active BART line
          Went through various soils: soft to thinly bedded siltstone, shale
           and sandstone bedrock
          Some soil even deemed “Potentially Gassy with Special
           Conditions” by Cal/OSHA.
          Navigated steep, turning alignment
          Worked with low cover, urban utilities, and sensitive structures
           requiring precautions to limit settlement impact and ensure the
           structures in downtown SF were safe.
10 Source: http://www.therobbinscompany.com/project-category/epb-tbm/
View of Central Subway Twin Bore Tunnels




      View of TBM Extraction Point


                                                        (above) View of Low
                                                        Clearance under which
                                                        Central Subway was built
                                                        (and under ACTIVE BART
                                                        line!)


11




      Cost Comparisons

      In 2014, Hatch Mott MacDonald estimated a trench under
      Meadow and Charleston (2% grade) would be $480 M. (Source: HMM
      Study 2014)

      In 2018, AECOM estimated same trench would be $800 - $950 M
      – so costs have almost doubled since 2014. (Source: PA Community
      Meeting 11/14/18 slide 41)

                          Hybrid       Viaduct          Trench         Short Tunnel
                                                                        (no freight)
      Estimated       $200M - $250M $400M - $500M $800M – 950M        $400M - $550M*
      Cost 2018 $

      *CARRD estimated the Short Tunnel (No freight) alternative based on 2x
      price of similar 2014 SF Central Subway tunnel project in downtown SF

      Note: Costs could potentially be reduced further (next slide)
12
         Reducing Tunnel Cost further

           Reducing the tunnel diameter helps lower costs
           2014 – HSR White paper on Tunneling - significant cost
            reductions by reducing max operating speeds assumptions
            from 220 to 200 mph thus reducing tunnel diameters from 29.5’
            to 28’ ID (Inside Diameter).*
           AECOM studying City Wide tunnel with freight used 28’ Inside
            Diameter (assumes 200 mph)
           Tunnel diameter can be reduced since Caltrain/HSR will only
            operate max 125 mph on Peninsula
           Caltrain Electrification EIR shows that San Francisquito Creek
            bridge will have a maximum clearance of just 19ft. (See CARRD’s
            previous public comments re: Vertical Clearance assumptions)


 13
*Source: California High-Speed Rail Program Whitepaper On Cost Reduction Strategies, 7/25/14




         Direct Comparison of Tunnels
                                 Central Subway                         PA Short Tunnel
                                   No freight                              No freight
       Length:                      1.7 miles                               1.6 miles
 Tunnel Diameter:                     20.7 ft                      28ft* (could be reduced)

     Constraint:            Built under active BART                  Under active Caltrain

     Soil types:         5 various soil types including        Unknown but PA Tunnel White
                                hazardous soils               Paper says suitable for tunneling
       Setting:               Dense urban setting                   Empty suburban ROW
    Conditions:         Steep, turning alignment with         Relatively flat, straight alignment
                          vertical clearance issues           with no vertical clearance issues

      Special            Required special planning to            No buildings in ROW and no
  Circumstances:        support adjacent tall buildings             adjacent skyscrapers


 14
     Final Thoughts

        CARRD is NOT advocating that this is THE
         alternative – only that it be given further analysis

        Further preliminary analysis and study is needed
         and warranted for this alternative given strong
         community preference for underground solution.

        Too early to evaluate is this is the right solution
         vs. other design alternatives – need more info




                           Appendix




16
 Palo Alto Right Of Way Widths




                                                               96 ft
                                                               85 ft
                                                               79 ft




*Approximate – not perfectly to scale. Not official diagram.
Carnahan, David

From:                Jason Matlof <jmatlof@gmail.com>
Sent:                Thursday, December 13, 2018 3:34 PM
To:                  Council, City; De Geus, Robert
Subject:             Public Comments for December 17th Council Meeting


Dear Council Members and Staff

I’m writing to briefly discuss two concerns that I have regarding the Rail Grade Separation process.

I ‐ Embarcadero Road Underpass Considerations
For many reasons (existing traffic congestion, pending Churchill Full/Partial Closure, traffic through residential “Emerson
Cloverleaf”, etc), the Council passed a resolution on June 19th, 2018 as part of the grade separation decision process to
“study additional options for addressing traffic in the Embarcadero Road underpass area.” While I appreciate that City
Staff and consultants have committed to study these solutions AFTER the traffic study is completed, that seems illogical
relative to the target timelines. Specifically, the Council has a timeline to select a preferred decision in Q1’19 (delayed
from previously). If we don’t start considering Embarcadero mitigations until Q1’19 it seems unlikely that this can occur
prior to such a vote, which leads me to believe that there will be further inevitable delays or the Council will not have
the data it needs to make a decision. I urge you to spend the $250,000 to study these options given the inevitability and
need.

II ‐ Commingling Decision Making on Palo Alto Avenue and a “Coordinate Downtown Plan”
Let me start by saying that I wholeheartedly support the idea of a “Coordinated Downtown Plan”; however, I urge you to
decouple that process from the existing Grade Separation decision making process. The reason for this is due to the
large uncertainty, time and fundraising uncertainty that will be required to get this project approved and financial
commitment from the many interested parties: Stanford University, Caltrain, City voters (given likely bond measure),
Caltrans (it will impact El Camino Real), CA‐PUC, and the list goes on.

Alternatively, I propose committing to a “contingent Grade Separation plan” for Palo Alto Avenue with final decision
pending the outcome of a Coordinated Plan outcome. While this would potentially waste more than $250,000 it is more
than justified given the huge risk that is implied by NOT (a) getting approval from the required authorities or (b) raising
the necessary funding for a Coordinated Downtown Plan within a reasonable time. Palo Alto Avenue supports 17k
cars/day and is a central intersection to Menlo Park, Stanford, Sand Hill Road, et al.

Again, I fully support such a Downtown plan, but don’t want the City residents to be left out to dry wallowing in
thousands of backed up cars if we can’t do either of the above. I think we all have to acknowledge that there is a serious
non‐zero risk associated with this grand “coordinated plan” concept.

Many thanks for your consideration.

Jason




                                                             1
Carnahan, David

From:                 Dave Shen <dshenster@gmail.com>
Sent:                 Friday, December 14, 2018 6:23 AM
To:                   Council, City
Cc:                   Jason Matlof; Jeff Brown; Monica; David Shen; De Geus, Robert
Subject:              Re: Public comment for Monday 12/17/18 City Council Mtg - Subject: Grade Separation


To all,

I wanted to make sure that this made it into the printed packets for Monday's meeting. I did not receive a reply from the
City Council email when I sent this the first time.

Thanks, Dave

On Wed, Dec 12, 2018 at 9:06 PM Dave Shen <dshenster@gmail.com> wrote:
 Distinguished City Councilmembers,

 A few comments at this juncture on the grade separation project for Monday's City Council meeting:

 This coming Monday, I intend on presenting a short deck on some potential alternate solutions to Embarcadero and
 Palo Alto Ave. My hope is to stimulate more creative thinking on both intersections. The more detailed issues for each
 intersection are:

 Embarcadero:

 I am concerned that Embarcadero is not higher up in priority in our work plan for exploration and study with the
 consultants. I believe that if closing Churchill is to be fully viable, that traffic mitigation must be done at its closest
 substitute which is Embarcadero. Staff has said we must wait until traffic studies are done without Embarcadero
 mitigations modeled. If true, then I would like to make sure we are all aligned and ready to direct staff to more fully
 study Embarcadero if/when the traffic studies become available ‐ I am very skeptical that a result would show that
 mitigations were not necessary, were Churchill to be closed.

 I would like to know if we have set aside or allocated funds for studying Embarcadero. It is likely to cost the same as
 studying the other intersections, which is approximately $250‐300K.

 I am concerned that we are not thinking creatively enough about possible alterations this intersection. Josh Mello's
 creative ideas as well as from Tony Carrasco, a local architect are included in my presentation. I am hoping that
 Coucilmembers will help encourage staff to explore ideas more fully.

 Palo Alto Ave:

 In my presentation, I talk through many creative concepts for addressing the Palo Alto Ave grade separation. Up to
 now, the results of the City and consultants studying Palo Alto Ave seemingly have stopped at "we can't do anything
 because we would affect the historic bridge and harm the El Palo Alto tree." Given some further thought, it is obvious
 to us that other solutions are possible in that area, that solve these issues.

 I advocate for further study of the Palo Alto Ave grade separation and to direct staff and the consultants to come up
 with more solutions.


                                                               2
The proposed Palo Alto Ave / Downtown Land Use Planning Problem Statement:

I support having the proposed Palo Alto Ave / Downtown Land Use Planning Problem Statement and where it leads.
Fixing the University Station area and the roads around it is a great idea and I hope it happens.

I must also advocate for decoupling Palo Alto Ave's grade separation activity from the Palo Alto Ave / Downtown Land
Use Planning Problem Statement. We do not know how long it will take to study and design for this plan. It may even
not be acceptable to the stakeholders: community, City, Caltrain, HSR, or its cost may kill it. And while we study and
design this plan, time marches on and Caltrain will continue its electrification work. Palo Alto Ave must be kept open to
support traffic and shouldn't be tied to the Palo Alto Ave / Downtown Land Use Plan. We should continue to work on
Palo Alto Ave's grade separation independently as a hedge for if the Palo Alto Ave / Downtown Land Use Plan is
delayed or does not happen.

Depending on the situation, I would also advocate for decoupling Embarcadero, if the Palo Alto Ave / Downtown Land
Use Planning Problem Statement were to include the area up to (or past) Embarcadero, for the same reason as above.

Lastly I am concerned about the overlap time between when Caltrain starts increasing trains and when we finish grade
separations. It will be a time of great pain and discomfort for Palo Alto, when roads are alternately open and closed,
and traffic snarls are the norm every day during rush hour, and we experience construction noise and disruption across
the town. Right now, if we were to magically start today, that time of pain is approximately 6‐7 years from when
Caltrain starts increasing trains in 2021‐22 to when we finish grade separation in 2028, 10 years from now. The more
we delay decisions, the longer the length of time we experience this pain.

This is why I advocate for speeding up as much as possible, making decisions efficiently, and not delaying for any
reason. My hope is that Council will help push staff to do good work BUT do it faster and more efficiently.

Thank you for your kind consideration,

David Shen
CAP member
North Old Palo Alto Group
http://www.northoldpaloalto.org



‐‐




                                                           3
Carnahan, David

From:               Carnahan, David
Sent:               Friday, December 14, 2018 7:39 AM
To:                 dshenster@gmail.com
Cc:                 Council, City; De Geus, Robert; Brettle, Jessica; Minor, Beth
Subject:            RE: URGENT Re: Presentation at City Council meeting on Monday night 12/17/18
Attachments:        Embarcadero and Palo Alto Ave Concepts v7.pptx


Good morning Mr. Shen,

The Packet for Monday’s Council meeting was published and printed yesterday. This email and presentation will be
printed for Council and the public at Monday’s Council meeting. The presentation will be loaded on the computer in the
Chambers.

When 5 members of the public cede their time to a Spokesperson, the Spokesperson is provided 10 minutes to address
the Council (Procedures 1.4(D)3). In the event of a large number of public speakers, this time may be reduced by the
Chair (Mayor) (Procedures 1.4(D)2).

David Carnahan, Deputy City Clerk, MPA
O: 650‐329‐2267 | E: david.carnahan@cityofpaloalto.org


From: Dave Shen <dshenster@gmail.com>
Sent: Friday, December 14, 2018 5:24 AM
To: Carnahan, David <David.Carnahan@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Council, City <city.council@cityofpaloalto.org>
Cc: David Shen <dshenster@gmail.com>; De Geus, Robert <Robert.DeGeus@CityofPaloAlto.org>
Subject: URGENT Re: Presentation at City Council meeting on Monday night 12/17/18

NOTE!!!! THE INCORRECT PRESENTATION IS IN THE PACKET FOR MONDAY!!!! Would you please substitute this one for
the one that is in there?

The one you have inserted was one I previewed at CAP ‐ we made modifications to shorten its length to be suitable for
presentation during public comment.

THANK YOU!! Dave Shen

On Wed, Dec 12, 2018 at 11:32 AM Dave Shen <dshenster@gmail.com> wrote:
 David,

 How are you? I have a presentation which I'd like to share with City Council and staff for Monday's City Council meeting
 on 12/17/18. I have not seen the agenda yet so not sure where it could be presented but my understanding is that City
 Council will take some time to talk about the grade separation project, with which this presentation is related.

 My plan is to ask 5 members of the community to give up their time for me to be able to deliver this presentation.
 Would you also please confirm how much actual time can be assembled via this method? Could I get 5 people x 3
 minutes each = 15 minutes?

 Thank you very much for the opportunity to present this information and please let me know if there are any issues.

                                                            1
David Shen
CAP member, Palo Alto Grade Separation Project
North Old Palo Alto Group
http://www.northoldpaloalto.org


‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐




                                                 2
            Embarcadero and
          Palo Alto Ave Concepts
                David Shen, Tony Carrasco, Jason Matlof
                             V7 12-12-18




Concept Goals
• STIMULATE THINKING AND POSSIBILITIES

• TREAT TRAFFIC SOLUTIONS IN PALO ALTO AS A SYSTEM

• ADVOCATE FOR ADDING EMBARCADERO TO WORK PLAN

• ADVOCATE FOR EXPANDED THINKING ON PALO ALTO AVE
Embarcadero Ave




Goals
• Upgrade/update old 1930s structure.
• Reduce traffic flow in neighborhood streets.
• Increase safety and access for pedestrians and cyclists.
• Fix traffic lights between Alma and El Camino.
• Do all this without property takings
Concept 1: Josh Mello – Curve Embarcadero to the south,
add exit loop onto Embarcadero West.                         Orange= original
                                                             path of Embarcadero




                                            Exit loop
                            Traffic light




                                                             Traffic light




Concept 2: Josh Mello – Curve Embarcadero to the south,
add left exit lane from Alma North onto Embarcadero West.    Orange= original
                                                             path of Embarcadero




                                            Left exit lane
                            Traffic light




                                                             Traffic light
Concept 3: Exit ramp from Alma North onto Embarcadero
                                                                          Orange= original
West. Curve Embarcadero to south                                          path of Embarcadero



                                             Exit ramp from Kingsley to
                                             Embarcadero West
                             Traffic light




                                                                          Traffic light




Concept 4: Tony Carrasco – Create traffic circle between
Alma and Embarcadero
Palo Alto Ave




Goals
• Maintain access from Alma to El Camino into Menlo Park.
• Maintain pedestrian/cyclist access
• Protect historic bridge and El Palo Alto tree.
• Do all this without property takings
Concept 1: Shift new road to El Camino to the south, change location in park
area of El Camino Park. Add sloping down road alongside Alma to drop down
to underpass. If 2% grade, slope down begins at Everett.

                  2 lanes slope up to meet El Camino, approx.
                  2-4% grade




                                                                    Adjacent drop down
                                                                    2 lanes, approx. 2-3%
                                                                    grade



                                       Train tracks remain                Traffic light
                                       at same level                      governs flow




Concept 1a: Shift new road to El Camino to the south, change location in park
area of El Camino Park. Add sloping down road alongside Alma to drop down
to underpass. If 5% grade, slope can start in/around Hawthorne.
                   2 lanes slope up to meet El Camino, approx.
                   5% grade




                                                                    Adjacent drop down
                                                                    2 lanes, approx. 5%
                                                                    grade



                                       Train tracks remain                Traffic light
                                       at same level                      governs flow
Concept 2: Tony Carrasco – Create rail viaduct from Menlo Park through Palo
Alto downtown, change path of train tracks around historic bridge




   TO REPEAT:
   • AGAIN: CONCEPTS TO STIMULATE THINKING AND CREATIVITY

   • ADVOCATE FOR EMBARCADERO TO BE INSERTED INTO THE WORK PLAN
     NOW

   • ADVOCATE FOR MORE STUDY ON PALO ALTO AVE

   • GOALS:
      • MAKE PALO ALTO OVERALL A BETTER ENVIRONMENT FOR CARS, BIKES, AND
        PEDESTRIANS
      • PRESERVE *ALL* NEIGHBORHOODS’ INTEGRITY
      • DO IT ALL WITHOUT PROPERTY TAKINGS
We Are Already in the ”Red Zone”
                                                         Trains/Day
                180

                160

                140

                120

                100
                                                          RED ZONE = 7 YEARS
                 80
                         Estimated construction time = 10 years
                 60

                 40

                 20

                  0
                      2018   2019   2020   2021   2022    2023   2024   2025   2026   2027   2028   2029




 Data: AECOM




RED ZONE
• The RED ZONE grows in time every month/year we delay.

• MINIMIZE THE RED ZONE = MINIMIZE DISRUPTION AND DISCOMFORT!

• Advocate for:
   •   Speed up: more parallel work
   •   Minimize delays in decisions
   •   Don’t get trapped in endless study and information gathering
   •   Make decisions and stick with them

• MINIMIZE THE RED ZONE!
APPENDIX




About Grade and
Grade Standards
             RISE
          - - - x 100 =GRADE %                                                                        RISE-
           RUN
                                                                       RUN /
            •  The steepness (slope) of the road/track is known as the grade.
            •  Percent grade is how much the road or track rises (in feet) for every 100
               feet of distance (the run).
            1% grade means for every 100 ft along track, the train climbs 1 ft in height.
            2% grade means the train rises 2 feet in the same 100 feet of run (so it's
            steeper).
            To go up 10 ft, you need 1000 feet of runway (1%), but at 2% you only need
            500 feat of runway. Steeper grades make for cheaper projectsl
            Hatch Mott study for Palo Alto: 1% trench cost $1 .15 Billion
                                             2% trench cost $480 million!
                                                                                       C.fiifomU11sAdw.>atirta
                                            10/18117                       CAIRR D     Reip0nsi>fe Ra;! Cui.go




Graphic below presented by City of Palo
Alto 9/16117 Community 'M>rbhop #1




                                                       •   Design standards govern steepness of
                                                           roads and tracks
                                                       •   For bikes/peds, ADA requires max 5%
        V!OYITUP  k
        . . . .. .m.                                       grade (10 ft min clearance)
                                    T                  •   Roadways can go up to 8% grade (15 ft
                   • Jl • • •

                                   -
                                   24.5 '

                                                       •
                                                           clearance)
                                                           Trains need a more gradual grade than

     T                l                                •
                                                           cars, bikes/peds
                                                           Caltrain has a design standard of 1 %

    f 1l~ 1~                                               grade with a possibility of going up to
                                                           2% grade with permission (not on
                                                           chart!).
                                                       •   Based on what we know, 2% grade is
                                                           possible (Caltrain standards, UP Contract)
                                                       •   Freight trains can go 2% and High Speed
                                                           Rail can go 4-6% (all prefer flatter)
                                                                                       C.l~omW.sAdvocaang
                                              18 17                        CA RRID     R<sponsible Roll DH!gn
Carnahan, David

From:                 Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Sent:                 Friday, December 14, 2018 11:22 AM
To:                   Dan Richard; boardmembers; kfsndesk; newsdesk; kwalsh@kmaxtv.com; Mark Kreutzer; Mayor; Mark
                      Standriff; scott.mozier; Cathy Lewis; Council, City; dennisbalakian; Doug Vagim; Steve Wayte;
                      steve.hogg; nick yovino; Daniel Zack; info@superide1.com; midge@thebarretts.com; beachrides;
                      bearwithme1016@att.net; popoff; leager; terry; paul.caprioglio; esmeralda.soria@fresno.gov; David
                      Balakian
Subject:              Fwd: How the Japanese are quieting their bullet trains




‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Fri, Dec 14, 2018 at 11:07 AM
Subject: How the Japanese are quieting their bullet trains
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>



        Friday, Dec. 14, 2018

     Dan‐ Here is an interesting prototype the Japanese hope will reduce noise from HSR. I wonder if Calif. HSR could
employ such a design. It would placate some of the noise‐sensitive critics. Would such a thing be able to get through
tunnels and trenches? It wouldn't matter how goofy it looked if it reduced noise along the ROW.

     https://asia.nikkei.com/Business/Companies/Faster‐bullet‐train‐aims‐to‐give‐airlines‐a‐run‐for‐their‐money

         Then good article there too re HSR coming to Hong Kong. That one says that in 2007, China had 1,350 KM of HSR
lines. Now it has 25,000 KM, so the past 10 years has been a huge HSR building boom in China, as you know.

        The brutal, ruthless Communist dictators in China see HSR as a boon for their country. The Republicans in
California do all in their power, including lying about it, to stop HSR here. Who is suppressing their people and who is
not?

        LH




                                                             1
Carnahan, David

From:                Pam Parke <pamsgarden@comcast.net>
Sent:                Sunday, December 16, 2018 6:12 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Freightless Tunnel for East Meadow and Charleston intersections


DearCity Council,

“The Freightless Tunnel is the Best Bundle!” (for East Meadow and Charleston intersections)

Thanks,
Pamela Parke, M.D.
3357 South Court
Palo Alto 94306
(Within hearing distance of the train)

Sent from my iPhone




                                                           1
Carnahan, David

From:             William Robinson <williamrobinson@goldenworld.com>
Sent:             Sunday, December 16, 2018 5:20 PM
To:               Council, City
Subject:          Item 3(b -please keep a Loma Verde bike/ped tunnel in study



Dear Council, Please ignore staff recommendation on item 3(b to set aside study of a bike/ped
undercrossing CalTrain at Loma Verde. You must keep such a long needed facility in synch with
construction of rail separations. Imagine the disruption costs and safety risks if Midtown and
Ventura citizens cannot cross CalTrain and Alma during construction. Regardless of a chosen
design for Meadow and Charleston, a dedicated undercrossing near Loma Verde will serve
future increased density expected for Ventura and adjacent area. During construction vehicle
traffic may increase at San Antonio, a crossover unsafe for bikes and pedestrians
Yoriko Kishimoto reminded me how the whole community must be included in studies as
important a rail separation. She recently referenced the ADT vehicle counts at Charleston
(16,000) and Meadow (9,000). Non‐motorized ADT for California Avenue bike/ped tunnel is
over 2,000. We need a proper bike/ped pathway under CalTrain and Alma near Loma Verde!

William’Rob’ Robinson, member PABAC (Pedestrian and Bicycle Advisory Committee), Palo Alto since 2005




                                                        2
Carnahan, David

From:               Robert Ohlmann <rohlmann@aol.com>
Sent:               Sunday, December 16, 2018 4:28 PM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            Public comments for Monday, Dec. 17 meeting on Rail Crossings



Dear Council members,

The freightless tunnel in S PA seems me like an excellent compromise for the rail crossing issue,
preserving the privacy and views of housing on the West side of Alma, solving the 2% grade potential
bottleneck, going below the creeks, and having a reasonable cost. Additional funds should go into
the study of that alternative to uncover problems that might exist, such as guaranteed pumping during
rainstorms and emergency access from a deeper tunnel.

Your constituent,

Robert Ohlmann
372 Creekside




                                                         3
Carnahan, David

From:                YORIKO KISHIMOTO <yoriko12330@icloud.com>
Sent:                Sunday, December 16, 2018 4:12 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Item 3, Rail Grade Separation item


Honorable City Council:

I am sending you a copy of the Guest Opinion just published in the Palo Alto Weekly on the topic of grade separations.

Specifically for Monday night, I join my neighbors in proposing a modification to item a) of staff recommendations, to read
as follows:

      “Separate from Study all Alternatives for the Palo Alto Avenue and Churchill Avenue Crossings (Closure
      and Hybrid) and Include Palo Alto Avenue and Churchill Avenue in a Separate Comprehensive Planning
      Effort;”


This would in effect prioritize the grade separations in South Palo Alto because (a) there are no grade separations in
South Palo Alto and there is a greater need there and (b) there are more viable options. This would allow Palo Alto to
apply for Measure B funds on a timely basis. As a next step, a North Palo Alto Comprehensive Planning process should
be initiated to allow for an integrated look at circulation and grade separation options for the section between Churchill
and Palo Alto Avenue. No one would dispute that one change to any of these would affect them all.

Thank you and staff for your diligent work on these challenging decisions.

Yoriko Kishimoto




https://www.paloaltoonline.com/news/2018/12/13/guest‐opinion‐keeping‐options‐open‐integrating‐rail‐and‐
community

Include Photos | Include Comments | Print this page | Close Window




https://paloaltoonline.com/news/print/2018/12/13/guest-opinion-keeping-options-open-
integrating-rail-and-community



Uploaded: Thu, Dec 13, 2018, 2:13 pm


Guest Opinion: Keeping options open:
Integrating rail and community
                                                             4
Broad spectrum of experiences can help make final decision on grade-separation
methods

by Yoriko Kishimoto




Palo Alto is facing potentially its biggest capital project since the construction of Oregon
Expressway in 1962: the re-building of the Caltrain corridor through Palo Alto, particularly the
rail crossings.

I was the first chair of the City Council's Rail Committee and founder of the Peninsula Cities
Consortium, a coalition of cities that held weekly hearings, invited speakers and coordinated
multi-city responses to the proposed high speed rail coming up the Peninsula. As such, I was
among the first to advocate against an elevated "viaduct" rail option, since it seemed so
intrusive visually. The current council Rail Committee recommended at its Oct. 17 meeting the
removal of the viaduct options from consideration.




Yoriko Kishimoto
But today, for the city to reach the right decision, I am, to my surprise, advocating that we keep
key options on the table, including the viaduct, the trench, the tunnel and, perhaps for now, the
"do nothing" option for two of the crossings.



Most Palo Altans agree Caltrain provides essential and efficient regional transportation services
to the University Avenue and California Avenue districts, as well as Stanford University and the
Research Park, which is preferable to more auto lanes on U.S. Highway 101, Interstate 280 and
El Camino Real.

Just to review quickly, the average daily traffic (ADT, aka vehicles) at the Caltrain crossings is
(according to a 2016 City of Palo Alto analysis, posted here):

• At Palo Alto Avenue (Alma): 2 lanes, 15,000 ADT

• University Avenue: 4 underpass lanes, 19,000 ADT

• Embarcadero Road: 3 underpass lanes, 25,000 ADT


                                                  5
• Churchill Avenue, 2 lanes 11,000 ADT

• Oregon Expressway, 4 underpass lanes, 31,000 ADT

• Meadow Drive, 2 lanes, 9,000 ADT

• Charleston Rd: 2 lanes, 16,000 ADT

• San Antonio: 4-6 overpass lanes, 36,000 ADT

Staff and consultants have done enough research to show us that there are more options at
Charleston and Meadow that will not lead to significant property takings or road closings. At this
point, I propose:

1. The city prioritize making a decision at Charleston and Meadow and compete for Measure A
grade separation funding.

2. We keep the options of the viaduct and a tunnel on the table at least through an urban design
and environmental/economic analysis stage. It seems prudent to pay $250,000 more in studies
to make the right decision for projects that will cost hundreds of millions of dollars.

3. We sponsor design charettes, field trips, and research and education to a broad spectrum of
policy makers, residents, business leaders and subject-level experts.

Melbourne is a recent example that we can learn from. It's in the process of grade separating 50
street-level crossings. Some of them have been trenched, but elevated rail is also used. As part
of their process, Australia's national research council commissioned university researchers to
lead a project to "deepen understanding of the issues involved in level-crossing removals so that
when proposals for specific locations are considered, professional, government and industry
stakeholders as well as the community can participate in a more informed way" (see the
report here).

We have a community of great universities, urban design experts, engineers and most
importantly, educated and interested residents. We all need more education.

Some may remember the famous fight for a solution at Devil's Slide on the San Mateo coast.
Caltrans was moving towards a more environmentally destructive highway bypass. One major
problem was that Caltrans had not built any tunnels in half a century and was adamantly
opposing it. It took a vote of the people to push this decision towards twin single-lane tunnels
through the hills.

So far, Menlo Park has made a decision for now to "do nothing" at three roads by keeping them
open and at grade level and to pursue grade separation at Ravenswood. Mountain View is


                                                  6
moving towards closing Castro Street. I believe both cities would welcome more and better
choices.

The ideal approach is a corridor-wide one, rather than leaving the issue to each city to struggle
with. Caltrain is developing a business plan, posted at caltrain2040.org, with scenarios and
policy implications for growth out to the year 2040. It mentions a possible corridor-wide
approach to address at-grade separations, but coming to a regional consensus, financing and
implementation will take much work.

Palo Alto's Comprehensive Plan, just updated last year, prioritizes the need for grade crossings
but has only one specific policy: T3.16, "Keep existing at-grade rail crossings open to motor
vehicles, pedestrians and bicyclists, consistent with results of a focused circulation study and a
context-sensitive alternatives analysis." It is clear, however, that the transportation priority is
"providing more options and more convenience so that people will more readily choose not to
drive."

We know by now that we don't want a network of expressways connecting our neighborhoods
and business centers. Indeed, our newer residents may not know there were real plans to make
Sand Hill Road, Alameda de las Pulgas and others part of an efficient regional expressway
system to allow us to zoom pleasantly between home and work. We found that the single-
occupancy-vehicle model doesn't scale well for high density, or even medium density, cities — or
for our planet. We need a balance, allowing the longer commute trips to be by transit or shared
rides and local trips such as to schools, transit centers and shopping to be by a mix of biking,
low-speed car trips, local shuttles or walking.

One important goal should be to do no harm to the relatively walkable street grids we have. As
the Comprehensive Plan already provides, let's not close streets unless there is no reasonable
alternative. And let's call upon the best of our town's design expertise to more seamlessly
integrate rail and community. We need to more carefully analyze our alternatives. Examples of
good design can be found around the world that might better preserve the network of walkable
streets that has kept our city livable for over a century.

Yoriko Kishimoto is Ward 2 director, Midpeninsula Regional Open Space District and former
mayor of Palo Alto. She can be reached at yoriko12330@icloud.com.




                                                  7
Carnahan, David

From:                Florence LaRiviere <florence@refuge.org>
Sent:                Sunday, December 16, 2018 3:13 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Rail separation


Dear City Council Members,

Please bring back to the table for further study the short tunnel in south Palo Alto.

No one I know in the neighborhood wants the viaduct.

Please continue to consider the trench option.

Our preference is the short tunnel with freight at grade.

Thank you for your work on this matter.

Florence LaRiviere
Virginia LaRiviere




                                                             8
Carnahan, David

From:                Stephen Ludington <slud@earthlink.net>
Sent:                Sunday, December 16, 2018 12:24 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             CalTrain


Please, please, please, don’t put the train above ground.


Steve Ludington
slud@earthlink.net
650.387.0561

Let everything happen to you: beauty and terror. / Just keep going. No feeling is final.

——Rainer Maria Rilke




                                                             9
Carnahan, David

From:                 carlin otto <carlinotto@gmail.com>
Sent:                 Sunday, December 16, 2018 6:44 AM
To:                   Council, City
Subject:              GET RID OF VIADUCT OPTION


Dear City Council:

PLEASE vote to discontinue (STOP) all further consideration of the viaduct option for the train.
By "viaduct" I mean the option where the train runs on a structure built high up.

This is the ugliest, the most visually invasive, the noisiest, the dirtiest (tosses dirt and dust the furthest) and in the future
will be, the most problematic for loitering, wasted land, trash collection, and graffitti.

100 years from now WHEN THIS TRAIN OPTION WILL STILL BE IN USE
nobody will remember or care how much or how little it cost !!
All they will notice is how it affects their lives on a daily basis.

I encourage you to move forward with the underground TUNNEL option.
This option will free up all the land above the tunnel for you to create bike paths, tennis courts, parks, additional across‐
city crossings, etc. Land is THE most valuable thing you have at your disposal for city planning.

Carlin Otto
231 Whitclem Court
Palo Alto, CA 94306




                                                               10
Carnahan, David

From:                 Dave Shen <dshenster@gmail.com>
Sent:                 Sunday, December 16, 2018 6:23 AM
To:                   Council, City
Cc:                   David Shen
Subject:              Public comment for Monday 12/17/18 City Council Mtg - Subject: Grade Separation




Distinguished City Councilmembers,

A few comments at this juncture on the grade separation project for Monday's City Council meeting:

This coming Monday, I intend on presenting a short deck on some potential alternate solutions to Embarcadero and Palo
Alto Ave. My hope is to stimulate more creative thinking on both intersections. The more detailed issues for each
intersection are:

Embarcadero:

I am concerned that Embarcadero is not higher up in priority in our work plan for exploration and study with the
consultants. I believe that if closing Churchill is to be fully viable, that traffic mitigation must be done at its closest
substitute which is Embarcadero. Staff has said we must wait until traffic studies are done without Embarcadero
mitigations modeled. If true, then I would like to make sure we are all aligned and ready to direct staff to more fully
study Embarcadero if/when the traffic studies become available ‐ I am very skeptical that a result would show that
mitigations were not necessary, were Churchill to be closed.

I would like to know if we have set aside or allocated funds for studying Embarcadero. It is likely to cost the same as
studying the other intersections, which is approximately $250‐300K.

I am concerned that we are not thinking creatively enough about possible alterations this intersection. Josh Mello's
creative ideas as well as from Tony Carrasco, a local architect are included in my presentation. I am hoping that
Coucilmembers will help encourage staff to explore ideas more fully.

Palo Alto Ave:

In my presentation, I talk through many creative concepts for addressing the Palo Alto Ave grade separation. Up to now,
the results of the City and consultants studying Palo Alto Ave seemingly have stopped at "we can't do anything because
we would affect the historic bridge and harm the El Palo Alto tree." Given some further thought, it is obvious to us that
other solutions are possible in that area, that solve these issues.

I advocate for further study of the Palo Alto Ave grade separation and to direct staff and the consultants to come up
with more solutions.

The proposed Palo Alto Ave / Downtown Land Use Planning Problem Statement:

I support having the proposed Palo Alto Ave / Downtown Land Use Planning Problem Statement and where it leads.
Fixing the University Station area and the roads around it is a great idea and I hope it happens.

I must also advocate for decoupling Palo Alto Ave's grade separation activity from the Palo Alto Ave / Downtown Land
Use Planning Problem Statement. We do not know how long it will take to study and design for this plan. It may even

                                                               11
not be acceptable to the stakeholders: community, City, Caltrain, HSR, or its cost may kill it. And while we study and
design this plan, time marches on and Caltrain will continue its electrification work. Palo Alto Ave must be kept open to
support traffic and shouldn't be tied to the Palo Alto Ave / Downtown Land Use Plan. We should continue to work on
Palo Alto Ave's grade separation independently as a hedge for if the Palo Alto Ave / Downtown Land Use Plan is delayed
or does not happen.

Depending on the situation, I would also advocate for decoupling Embarcadero, if the Palo Alto Ave / Downtown Land
Use Planning Problem Statement were to include the area up to (or past) Embarcadero, for the same reason as above.

Lastly I am concerned about the overlap time between when Caltrain starts increasing trains and when we finish grade
separations. It will be a time of great pain and discomfort for Palo Alto, when roads are alternately open and closed, and
traffic snarls are the norm every day during rush hour, and we experience construction noise and disruption across the
town. Right now, if we were to magically start today, that time of pain is approximately 6‐7 years from when Caltrain
starts increasing trains in 2021‐22 to when we finish grade separation in 2028, 10 years from now. The more we delay
decisions, the longer the length of time we experience this pain.

This is why I advocate for speeding up as much as possible, making decisions efficiently, and not delaying for any reason.
My hope is that Council will help push staff to do good work BUT do it faster and more efficiently.

Thank you for your kind consideration,

David Shen
CAP member
North Old Palo Alto Group




                                                            12
Carnahan, David

From:               Mitchell Rosen <mitchellrosen@sbcglobal.net>
Sent:               Saturday, December 15, 2018 2:23 PM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            I question the need for viaduct/trench/hybrid crossings at Meadow and Churchill


To Council:

The last Connecting Palo Alto meeting at Mitchell Park in November, chaired by the Aecom organization, began from an
erroneous assumption, i.e. that grade separation at both Meadow and Charleston is required and can be done without
undue temporary or permanent disruption.

The 2017 Mott McDonald data that showed traffic volumes at current grade crossings was not mentioned ‐‐ it
demonstrates that both Churchill and Meadow carry relatively light vehicular loads that, if closed, would redistribute to
Embarcadero and a separated Charleston. The study correctly points out the need for Charleston to continue serving as
a 280‐to‐101 artery, designed similarly to Mountain View's plan for the Rengstorff crossing. The Churchill and Meadow
crossings together carry about the same traffic volume as Charleston alone. The latter's volumes compare to Oregon and
San Antonio.

Palo Alto has EIGHT vehicular rail crossings, counting San Antonio. With some modifications to the remaining crossings,
we should be able to close Meadow and Churchill, rearrange Palo Alto Avenue, and manage well ‐‐ all without spending
the hundreds of millions for construction and disruption that the last meeting envisioned.

I strongly hold the belief that HSR will never run on the Peninsula for both financial and engineering reasons,
eliminating the need for a 110mph design -- but that's a different issue.

Mitchell Rosen, Greenmeadow




                                                           13
    Carnahan, David

    From:                  Stinson Valerie <stinsonvalerie37@gmail.com>
    Sent:                  Saturday, December 15, 2018 11:39 AM
    To:                    Council, City
    Cc:                    stinsonvalerie37@gmail.com
    Subject:               PA City Council Dec 17 meeting, Grade Separation


    Palo Alto Council Members,

    I am a Palo Alto resident who resides in the Meadowcreek Homeowner’s Association, a small Eichler Condominium
    complex on Greenmeadow Way, abutting Alma St. in South Palo Alto. The train tracks are just the other side of Alma
    from us, and we are ½ mile from the Charleston‐ Alma intersection We are completely owner occupied, and we house
    34 people, four of whom are Palo Alto Unified students. Collectively, our current property value is over $22M and rising.

    This issue is very important to our quality of life, and I urge you to please consider the following:

1) Include the additional alternative of “Freight Trains on Surface with Passenger Trains Underground,” in addition to the
    tunnel and trench options. This is a cost effective alternative. “Freight on Surface” would not require any shoofly track
    during construction. All trains would continue on the current track during construction, which would minimize quality of
    life issues (safety, noise, visuals, air quality and vibrations.) WE LIVE HERE!

2) Ensure that the Rail Committee:

                  a. Properly weighs all Quality of Life factors in future evaluations (safety, noise, visibility of track and train,
                      air quality and vibrations.)

                  b. Stops limiting options before thorough vetting has been conducted including studies and on
                      environmental impacts, quality‐of‐life determinations (safety, noise, vibration, visibility of track and
                      train) and true cost. Consider these factors during construction time as well.

                  c. Provides a more balanced evaluation of the options (Presentation on 11‐28‐18 was extremely biased
                      toward viaduct and anti‐trench or tunnel.)

                  d. Include bicycle riding capability and walkability as important factors for our students and all residents
                       moving east and west at all train intersections, during and after construction.

                  e. Work regionally to ensure the plans across cities align.

        Thank you for your deliberate attention to this important topic.

    Val Stinson
    Palo Alto




                                                                     14
Carnahan, David

From:                 Felicia Fahey <feliciafahey@gmail.com>
Sent:                 Friday, December 14, 2018 9:40 PM
To:                   Council, City
Subject:              PA City Council Dec 17 meeting, Grade Separation




Dear Palo Alto Council Members,

I am a Palo Alto resident who resides in the Meadowcreek Homeowner’s Association, a small Eichler Condominium
complex on Greenmeadow Way, abutting Alma St. in South Palo Alto. The train is just across the street from our
complex and is particular concern to me as a mother of a twelve year old who commutes to school regularly along Alma
and who also moves across the Charleston/Alma train corridor on a regular basis each day.

I have been following discussions in the community regarding the development of the rail corridor I am especially
concerned that this following option is not being taken seriously. It seems to me that it ought to be given serious time
and consideration given that it is a win‐win for so many:

1) Include the additional alternative of “Freight Trains on Surface with Passenger Trains Underground,” in addition to
the tunnel and trench options. This is a cost effective alternative. “Freight on Surface” would not require any shoofly
track during construction. All trains would continue on the current track during construction, which would minimize
quality of life issues (safety, noise, visuals, air quality and vibrations.)

More generally for those of us who live here, the upcoming changes are serious and will affect our experience of where
we live and our safety. Please make sure that the Rail Committee is doing due diligence by:

a. Properly weighing all Quality of Life factors in future evaluations (safety, noise, visibility of track and train, air quality
and vibrations.)

b. Carefully reviewing all options and not limiting options before thorough vetting has been conducted including studies
and on environmental impacts, quality‐of‐life determinations (safety, noise, vibration, visibility of track and train) and
true cost. Consider these factors during construction time as well.

c. Providing a more balanced evaluation of the options (Presentation on 11‐28‐18 was extremely biased toward viaduct
and anti‐trench or tunnel.)

d. Weighing more heavily on bicycle riding capability and walkability as important factors for our students and all
residents moving east and west at all train intersections.n.

Thank you for your time and consideration of the neighborhood inhabitants as you move forward in making important
decisions.

Sincerely,
Felicia Fahey




                                                                15
Carnahan, David

From:                 bruce.train@yahoo.com
Sent:                 Friday, December 14, 2018 9:14 PM
To:                   Council, City
Cc:                   mickie winkler
Subject:              Re: [chbb850] Please avoid years of road construction impacts



Dear Council Members:

I'm also a Palo Alto resident and I agree completely with Mickie Winkler.

One reason I favor the viaduct option is that it could allow installation of multiple safe paths for
cyclists and pedestrians under the tracks, undoing a lot of the bifurcation of the city caused by the
railroad tracks. It could also open the possibility of more crossings for cars, reducing some of the
traffic congestion at the current crossings that occurs during much of the day.

Thank you for looking carefully at the viaduct option.

Bruce Train
(650) 324-7346
Channing House
Palo Alto resident since 1972

On Friday, December 14, 2018, 7:10:55 PM PST, mickie winkler <mickie650@gmail.com> wrote:


Dear council members,

When you think about the railroad grade crossings, please consider the potential multi‐year traffic impacts of
your decision‐‐the impacts to our school kid and businesses, the added travel times and relentless congestion,
and the ability of all of us to get around for years.

The viaduct option alone –according to our staff report—has minimal impacts to roadways during
construction‐‐plus an option to build the track without a shoofly.

The viaduct option further creates new real estate underneath the track. It could be visually preferable to a
raised solid wall. Despite fears expressed continually, the noise impacts, according to staff, will be attenuated.
(The pros and cons of the Viaduct option, as presented by staff, are listed below. )

Thank you for bringing the interests of the full community to the decision‐making process by pursuing the viaduct
option. Your job is to lead.

Sincerely,
Mickie Winkler
Channing House
850 Webster St.
Palo Alto, CA 94301


                                                            16
Pros

Minimal impact to roadways during construction
Option to build without a shoo fly
Landscaping can be fully restored
Opportunity for linear park
Does not block creeks
Low long‐term maintenance costs
No major utility reconstruction

Cons
Requires design exception from Caltrain
Visual impact
Relocate rail‐road cross over just north of San Antonio station
Mickie Winkler
650-324-7444 office
650-335-5540 cell
--
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "CHBB" group.
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to
chbb850+unsubscribe@googlegroups.com.
To post to this group, send email to chbb850@googlegroups.com.
Visit this group at https://groups.google.com/group/chbb850.
For more options, visit https://groups.google.com/d/optout.




                                                            17
Carnahan, David

From:               Kellerman, Thomas W. <thomas.kellerman@morganlewis.com>
Sent:               Sunday, December 16, 2018 6:18 PM
To:                 Council, City
Cc:                 Shikada, Ed; De Geus, Robert; Barbara Ann Hazlett; kanne.megan@gmail.com; Rachel Kellerman;
                    yoriko12330@icloud.com; nadianaik@gmail.com; alisonlcormack@gmail.com
Subject:            Submission for December 17, 2018 Council Meeting
Attachments:        Rail Letter - 12-17-18 Council Meeting.docx


Honorable City Council Members:

We are writing with regard to the proposal to be considered at the City Council meeting to be held on
December 17, 2018 concerning proposed modifications to the Connecting Palo Alto alternatives under
consideration. We would like to submit the attached letter for your review.

Thank you for your consideration of the attached submission and for your efforts to address these
important issues as the City strives to improve its transportation infrastructure.

Best regards,

Barbara Hazlett
Megan Kanne
Thomas Kellerman
Rachel Kellerman
Yoriko Kishimoto

thomas.kellerman@morganlewis.com
+1.650.843.7550




DISCLAIMER
This e-mail message is intended only for the personal use
of the recipient(s) named above. This message may be an
attorney-client communication and as such privileged and
confidential and/or it may include attorney work product.
If you are not an intended recipient, you may not review,
copy or distribute this message. If you have received this
communication in error, please notify us immediately by
e-mail and delete the original message.




                                                         1
 Honorable Council Members:

 We are a group of University South residents writing regarding the proposed actions for the December 17, 2018 City
 Council meeting with respect to the Connecting Palo Alto project (agenda Item number 3). We have met with several
 neighbors in the University South area and attended a number of community meetings concerning the various
 proposals under consideration. In these discussions there has been a strong consensus that any changes to existing
 rail crossings need to be approved only after a thorough traffic study and the inclusion of appropriate mitigation
 measures to ensure that the criteria adopted by the City Council are truly achieved. We agree with City staff and
 other constituents in North Palo Alto that the traffic solutions need to be treated as an integrated system and not
 merely as individual intersections. We encourage the City Council to abide by these agreed prerequisites in its
 consideration of which alternatives to implement.

 For the reasons described below, we believe that the Churchill Avenue crossing should be added to the Coordinated
 Area Plan. Accordingly, we respectfully propose that item a) under the Action Item #3 to be considered by the City
 Council be modified to read as follows:

          “Separate from Study all Alternatives for the Palo Alto Avenue and Churchill Avenue Crossings (Closure and
          Hybrid) and Include Palo Alto Avenue and Churchill Avenue in a Separate Comprehensive Planning Effort;”

 Our analysis of this proposal and a number of related issues is set forth below.

 Impact of Alternatives on Traffic in Residential Streets

 The City Council adopted several criteria to consider in evaluating each alternative. Among these criteria are the
 following:

                    Consider the impact on traffic on residential streets and work to minimize the effect of changes to the
                     city’s rail crossings;
                    The FAQs published by the City state at answer A24 a commitment for “evaluation criteria to provide
                     clear, safe routes for pedestrians and bikes”; and
                    The Palo Alto Comprehensive Plan, policy T‐3.16 provides as follows: “Keep existing at‐grade rail
                     crossings open to motor vehicles, pedestrians and bicyclists, consistent with results of a focused
                     circulation study and context sensitive alternatives analysis”.

 These criteria have often not been included in the summaries of the alternatives under consideration as they impact
 the articulated criteria. The continued inclusion of these criteria and a careful analysis of the impact of each proposal
 on residential traffic as well as pedestrian and bicycle safety is required by the agreed evaluation process, and indeed
 is required by the existing Palo Alto Comprehensive Plan. It is our expectation that the City Council will ensure that
 this analysis is included as it moves forward with the evaluation process.




C:\Users\MP014805\Desktop\Rail Letter - 12-17-18                1
Council Meeting.docx
 Required Inclusion of Mitigation Actions

 In its Motion 2, adopted on June 19, 2018, the City Council included the following requirements:

 d. Remove the language regarding widening Embarcadero Road underpass from
 description of Churchill Avenue crossing closed (CAX) idea; and
 e. Add to Churchill Avenue crossing closed (CAX) idea, “study additional options for
 addressing traffic in the Embarcadero Road underpass area including actions to
 minimize redirected traffic onto residential streets in adjacent neighborhoods and
 commit to adopting appropriate mitigations to address the impacts”

 As stated, the adoption of mitigation measures is a required aspect of each proposal. With respect to the proposals
 under consideration regarding the Churchill crossing, we have yet to hear any potential mitigation actions from City
 staff or its consultants. Logically a thoughtful analysis of mitigation factors will require specific proposals and a
 thorough study of projected traffic patterns and the likely impact of the suggested mitigation actions. This aspect of
 the overall analysis cannot be given short shrift. The City Council has committed that it will not adopt any specific
 proposal until the intended mitigation actions are incorporated into the proposal. We expect the Council will honor
 this commitment.

 Traffic Study Data

 The City’s consultants have recently been conducting traffic studies and gathering relevant data. This data will be
 essential to a proper analysis and adoption of thoughtful proposals. Our community is fortunate to have many
 residents with deep skill sets in data analytics. We strongly encourage the City to make the raw traffic study data
 available to the community to ensure a robust analysis is performed. The traffic data has been compiled in a very
 short time period. In reviewing the data, the City Council should ensure that the data is truly sufficient to support its
 decision‐making process. If it is determined that the collected data is not sufficiently detailed or comprehensive, it
 will be incumbent on the Council to gather additional data before any decisions are reached. With respect to the
 Churchill crossing, we have the benefit of the opportunity to conduct a real‐world trial closure for a period of time
 necessary to gather data reflecting the actual experience of such a closure. If the City Council decides to continue to
 analyze this alternative, we encourage conducting a real‐world trial before a final decision is made.

 Coordinated Area Plan

 The City staff is proposing that alterations be made to the Connecting Palo Alto planning process to include any
 potential alterations to the Palo Alto Avenue crossing as part of a Coordinated Area Plan for the Downtown area. We
 are supportive of this proposal. As noted above, there seems to be a general consensus that the planning process
 should be conducted on a system‐wide basis. As stated by City staff, the Stanford University General Use Permit
 (“GUP”) process will directly impact the North Palo Alto traffic planning process. In answer A27 to the City’s FAQs on
 this project, the City has acknowledged that both the Embarcadero and University crossings are interconnected and
 would benefit from “a more comprehensive planning effort”. This seems empirically obvious and we support this
 approach. University Avenue and Embarcadero Road constitute the principal entrances to Stanford and this
 interaction needs to be contemplated in a single integrated traffic proposal. Moreover, the earlier observations from

C:\Users\MP014805\Desktop\Rail Letter - 12-17-18             2
Council Meeting.docx
 City staff and consultants have emphasized that the traffic patterns between Churchill Avenue and Embarcadero Road
 are closely intertwined. It is clear to us that the approach that will yield the best results over the long term is to
 incorporate all of the North Palo Alto crossings into the intended Coordinated Area Plan. A carefully coordinated plan
 will best serve our community for many years to come.

 Proposed Revision to Council Proposal #3

 Based on the foregoing, we believe the revision to the City Council proposal set forth above is the best method to
 achieve the City’s long‐term goals and meet the needs of our residents.

 Our neighbors welcome an opportunity to discuss these matters further with the members of City Council and the
 Rail Committee.

 Thank you for your time and commitment to this important process.

 Sincerely,

 Barbara Hazlett
 Megan Kanne
 Rachel H. Kellerman
 Thomas W. Kellerman
 Yoriko Kishimoto




C:\Users\MP014805\Desktop\Rail Letter - 12-17-18           3
Council Meeting.docx
Carnahan, David

From:               Bonny Parke <bonny.parke@gmail.com>
Sent:               Sunday, December 16, 2018 6:24 PM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            Freightless tunnel option


Dear City Council Members,

Please explore this option suggested by Nadia Naik:

"Nadia Naik has researched and put forward another option for the Council to study, which is a tunnel only for
Charleston and Meadow with Caltrain in the tunnel and freight on top ("freightless tunnel"), and she estimates the cost
at $550M (her comparables from downtown SF tunnel)."

I have already spoken at a subcommittee meeting on rail options, and this option seems doable. Thank you for your hard
work on this important issue.

Bonny

Bonny Parke, Ph.D.
3292 South Court, Palo Alto, CA 94306 (close to East Meadow crossing)




                                                           1
Carnahan, David

From:                Mary Ann Michel <maryannm7@gmail.com>
Sent:                Sunday, December 16, 2018 7:19 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Viaduct train option yes




Dear council members,

When you think about the railroad grade crossings, please consider the potential multi‐year traffic impacts of your
decision‐‐the impacts to our school kid and businesses, the added travel times and relentless congestion, and the ability
of all of us to get around for years.

The viaduct option alone –according to our staff report—has minimal impacts to roadways during construction‐‐plus an
option to build the track without a shoofly.

The viaduct option further creates new real estate underneath the track. It could be visually preferable to a raised solid
wall. Despite fears expressed continually, the noise impacts, according to staff, will be attenuated.

I hope you are working with Mountain View and Atherton and Redwood City.
Mary Ann M
#384 503




                                                             2
Carnahan, David

From:                davherzl@sbcglobal.net
Sent:                Sunday, December 16, 2018 8:42 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Selection of Alternatives for Road Separation Meadow and Charleston
Attachments:         Meadow and Charleston Matrix.xlsx


To the Rail Committee,

Thank you for taking your time and reading my feedback in regards to road separation for Meadow and Charleston.

I have been a long time Palo Alto Resident. I went to Palo Verde Elementary School, Wilber Middle School, graduated
Palo Alto High in 1982, and continue to live and enjoy Palo Alto. Palo Alto is a great place to live, this is my home, and
love living in Palo Alto.

Palo Alto has always been bicycle friendly, been on top of recycling, invested in trees throughout the city, and a city that
is respectful to the citizens.

I have been following the decision of grade separation, have been to several rail committee meetings, and attended the
recent community meeting on November 28th.

I have reviewed all the alternatives with an open mind and come to this question “What is best for the community” and I
strongly feel the Trench alternative is the best.

I reviewed the evaluation matrix and put scores of 1 to 6 for each criteria, see attached.

Trench scored 43, Hybrid 36, and Viaduct scored 44. Even though the Viaduct scored the highest by one point, I still
believe the best alternative is the Trench. The criteria of noise & vibration and visual should be weighted more, and the
Trench is the leader in both of these.

Also a criteria of what does the community want should be included. After all it is the community that has to live with
the decision. All the feedback that I have listen to from the community is that they do not want any of the raised
options and in fact there are about 500 neighbors that have signed a petition to this effect.

The city has a big decision to make, I believe they should evaluate all alternatives using criteria, but should look at what
criteria is most important to the community, and what does the community want.

I am willing to live with the disruption and duration of construction if the end product is better. I strongly believe the
Trench is the best option. The visual impact of the Hybrid and Viaduct are terrible. We do not want to look up at this 30
to 40 foot high monstrosity.

I know that the Trench is the hard option for it has to overcome some design issues – It however is the favored option
with the community and the best option.

Thanks.

David Herzl

4135 Park Blvd. Palo Alto




                                                              1
Meadow & Charleson Evaluation Matrix.

                                             Number                                  Comment
Criteria                                     Trench       Hybrid        Viaduct      Trench                                         Hybrid                                        Viaduct
                                                                                     The crossing is at street level, this is the
Improve East‐ West Connectivity                       6            4               6 best option for connectivity                   The crossing is down and up.                  The crossing is at street level
Reduce Traffic Congestion and Delays                  6            6               6 Agree all are improvements                     Agree all are improvements                    Agree all are improvements
                                                                                                                                    Bikes have to go down and back up, less
Provide clear, safer routes for pedestrians a         6            4               6 Bikes cross at street level                    safe.                                         Bikes cross at street level
                                                                                     Will have shoofly, and some additional
Support continued operations                          4            4               5 maintenance                                    Will have shoofly                             Least disruptive to operations, no shoofly
Finance with feasible funding sources                 1            3               2 Based on cost                                  Based on cost                                 Based on cost
                                                                                     Used values from the Evaluation Matrix         Used values from the Evaluation Matrix        Used values from the Evaluation Matrix
Minimize right of way acquisition                     2            3               6 provided by the committee                      provided by the committee                     provided by the committee
                                                                                     I believe this would have the least rail
                                                                                     noise and vibration, the ground is
                                                                                     sheltering the noise, I would think that
                                                                                     noise bouncing off the walls would reflect     I believe this will impact a larger           I believe the higher up would generate
Reduce rail noise and vibration                       6            3               2 high up in the air                             community                                     noise further out.
                                                                                     Used values from the Evaluation Matrix         Used values from the Evaluation Matrix        Used values from the Evaluation Matrix
Maintain or improve local access                      6            6               6 provided by the committee                      provided by the committee                     provided by the committee

                                                                                     Visually this is the best, and is one the
                                                                                     more important criterias. The limit to the
                                                                                     bushes shaves it by one factor, but you
                                                                                     put in hedges with shallow roots. The big                                                    Visually better to the Hybrid, but still very
                                                                                     visual advantage is you do not see the         Visually the worst, from the neighbors        poor there will be a train that is high up in
Minimize visual changes along corridor                5            1               2 train high up in the air.                      yards this will be closer than the Viaduct.   the air that can be seen from a far.
                                                                                     Used values from the Evaluation Matrix         Used values from the Evaluation Matrix        Used values from the Evaluation Matrix
                                                                                     provided by the committee. I did not           provided by the committee. I did not          provided by the committee. I did not
                                                                                     change values, but to me this is not an        change values, but to me this is not an       change values, but to me this is not an
                                                                                     important criteria, the end product is         important criteria, the end product is        important criteria, the end product is
Minimize disruption and duration of constr         1                2              3 what is more imortant                          what is more imortant                         what is more imortant
                                                  43               36             44
Carnahan, David

From:                  Kass <vz22@yahoo.com>
Sent:                  Monday, December 17, 2018 10:55 AM
To:                    Council, City
Subject:               Fw: We urge you to remove all raised rail options for S Palo Alto intersections at the council meeting
                       on Monday
Attachments:           List of Palo Alto residents who            don't want any raised rail options for S PA
                       intersections.pdf; Why No Raised Rail.pdf


Hi all,

I agree with Parag. Please review options and try to find ones that would not close 3 lanes of Alma Street for months and
years totally disrupting traffic patterns.

A tunnel for Caltrain leaving freight trains at ground level seems the best solution today

Kathleen Goldfein
Resident on Alma Street in a South Palo Alto




Sent from Yahoo Mail for iPhone

Begin forwarded message:

On Sunday, December 16, 2018, 3:55 AM, Parag Patkar <parag@virtunetsystems.com> wrote:

          Dear Cory, Lydia, Adrian, Greg (Tanaka), Tom, Greg (Scharff), Karen, Liz, Eric, Ed, and Rob,




          First of all I appreciate you all taking the bull by the horns and moving forward aggressively to finalize
          grade separation options for the Palo Alto train-road intersections by early 2019.

          I would again like to bring to your attention that there is fierce opposition from residents in S Palo Alto to
          both raised rail options - viaduct (train on a tall structure) and hybrid (train on wall) for Charleston and
          Meadow intersections, that are on the agenda for Monday's Council meeting.




          Attached is a list of 500 residents (names and addresses) who have asked me to convey this opinion to
          the Council and City Staff.




          I am also attaching some comments on Nextdoor from folks who have lived in places where trains run on
          elevated structures.




                                                                 1
At the City Council meeting on Monday, we urge you to remove all raised rail options from consideration.




Respectfully,




Parag



Parag Patkar

4117 Park Blvd

cell (510) 418 2912

parag@virtunetsystems.com

‐‐
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "Palo Alto Citizens" group.
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to
paloaltocitizens+unsubscribe@googlegroups.com.
To view this discussion on the web visit
https://groups.google.com/d/msgid/paloaltocitizens/007101d4951d%2420cec900%24626c5b00%24%4
0virtunetsystems.com.
For more options, visit https://groups.google.com/d/optout.




                                                    2
            Why No Raised Rail?
  South Palo Alto Community feedback on train on a viaduct or train on a wall:
  • Looks really bad.
  • Depreciates property values.
  • Sound travels farther and louder. Especially for freight which is louder for a
    longer time.
  • Underpass might get flooded. Not good for bike traffic. Meadow and
    Charleston are major school bike routes.
  • Divides the city.
  • Area under the viaduct magnet for transients/homeless with associated
    filth.


Ideal option is train in trench or tunnel with Alma, Charleston and
Meadow at existing grade.
Few of the 200+ comments on Email and NextDoor
                                                                                              Susan McConnell, Fairmeadow · 19 Aug                                                 v
                                                                                              I am totally opposed to the hybrid '1rain of wall" option . With so many trains
~ Lorri Lewis, Barron ParK · 19 Aug                                                           going by, we will suffer from noise pollution from the train whistles. II will be
                                                                                        '
    Parag PatKar. thanK you for your clear presentation to us.c-'""'-..:...,,,.-.,,._         awful! Having a train 40+ feet above ground will be an~or many of
    Shifrin that a tunnel is #1 option and a trench #2 . I live in                            our homes! I much prefer the '1rain in trench or tunnel" option . Noise would
    quiet day/evening with light traffic, we can hear the trains.~~~~-;;:                     be greatly reduced and we '          'I              a train whizzing by from our
    and longer trains coming, the noise from trains on a high wall would                      bacKyards. If they can Ke Alma, Charleston and Meadow at the                     v
    significantly and negatively impact the noise level for all of Palo Alto.                 that would be a major plus.       e     ice ere is a no ra1ner... train in trench or
                                                                                              tunnel option . Even if it is more expensive, it needs to me done because it's
                                                                                              going to affect so many of us on a daily basis.

   Anatol ZolotusKy, Midtown · 19 Aug
   Pa rag,

   ThanK you for the heads up. The 'train in trench or tunnel' option is so much            Carol MacDonell, Palo Verdr l9r;i;i:rg----,..._ _                                   v
   better, that to seriously consider the other one is laug~ Please let us                  The trench or tunnel. The aised trains in San Mateo Belmont and San
   Know how we can help to uphold the former, and to reject the latter. In                  Carlos are along El Camino.;-iin:n.
                                                                                                                           ii u~=.,...,,rns? no residential as it would be in
   particular, please let us Know the dates of the relevant Rail Committee and              Palo Alto.
   City Council meetings. I'll try my best to maKe it there.




   Frank Shifrin, Midtown · 19 Aug
   If t he cost is bearable. there can be no questio n as to what should be
   d one. We really hould n't block of part of town with a "wall ". f we
   choose t he trench o ption, someday int e u ure, we can turn it into a
   tu nnel, like it sho uld be from the beg inning - if we can afford to d o so
   now. Frank Shifrin- a resid ent for more than 60 years.
              Sat 9/15/2018 6:04 PM
              Lee Law <leelanghammer@yahoo.com>
              Re: Proposed strongly worded email to Council to remove all raised rail opt ions in South Palo Alto
To      Parag Patkar

0    You replied to this message on 9/15/2018 6:10 PM.



 Pa rag,

 Thanks so much for this. I definitely \ Vant t o keep my name on the list.

 I don 1t kno\V\Vhere this frt.s in, but another huge <iisinc.entive for raise-d track.son a v:iaduct , e.spe.c.ia lly, is the fact that , unfortunately, it \ Vill be-c ome a ~gnet fo r tra n~ie nt~ and hom ele~~ indiYicl.uals. •~yone driving in San Francisco o r Oakland
 and other a reas in the Bay c.an clearly see this in p lac.e, l\vhere incl.i-::iciuaB ha·.:e ~takecl. out ground under th e ·.: iacl.uct~ and o·.: erp a~~e~ fo r th eir te nt~,_ ~hopping ca rt~,_ ~leep ing b ag~,_ cl.rug pa rap hernalia,_and more. \Vith the train running through
 neighborhoods like ours and Southgate, there is a bsolutelY no \Vay that a viaduct o r \Vat(Whicll Will}Usfb e-c ome a graf:frti-infe.ste-d eye.sore, lVill do anything but depre.ss property vatue.s. .i\noth er point is that a c.itylvide viaduct has been rule-d out.
 This \Vas announc.e-d at the meeting a fe\V\\1eeks .ago at the l\llitc.bell Park Commun:ity Center. So if a via duct isn 1t good enough fo r the \Vhote c.ity o f Palo .~o, then \Vhy is it st ill being considere-d "good enough" fo r consideration fo r south Palo
 .~o ? \Ve absolutely must not let this happen! It is painfully o bvious that , base-don i.vhat I've o bsen:e-d and pic.ke-d up on during the past several meetings.. there doe.s seem t o be an undercu.rrent o f support for a south P.~ rais.e-d rail o ption - by
 the consultants, city officials, and several CC me,mbers. This make.s me suspicious that there's some son of back room de.al going on. I hope I'm \;rong.
List of Palo Alto residents, alphabetically sorted by street name, who oppose any
raised rail options (both viaduct and Hybrid) for Charleston and Meadow
intersections.
#        First Name       Last Name        Street#    Street Name          Zip
       1 Carmela          Ciral                                                94306
       2 Engenne          Kim                                                  94306
       3 Wesky            Lin                                                  94306
       4 Rubert           Meggwra                                              94306
       5 C.               Schwerer                                             94306
       6 Cary             Shants                                               94306
       7 Neel             Valame                                               94306
       8 Raj              Valame                                               94306
       9 Candice          Wheeler                                              94306
     10 Heewon            Park                                                 94306
     11 Marie             Anne Fogel                                           94306
     12  Hongxia          Xiong                                                94306
     13 Kathleen          Goldfein                                             94306
     14 Kathleen          Goldfein                                             94306
     15 Dawne             Hom                                                  94306
     16 Ivan              Hom                                                  94306
     17  Rachael          Cox                                                  94306
     18 Elaine            Aeal                                                 94306
     19 Gaya              Bhaskar                                              94306
     20  Lakshmi          Muralidharan                                         94306
     21 Marta             Rostriguey                                           94306
     22 Christy           Rice                                                 94306
     23 Dennis            Brown                                                94306
     24 Jake              Brown                                                94306
     25 Faith             Brown-Rate                                           94306
     26 Sandra            Koppe                                                94306
     27 Matt              Passell                                              94306
     28  KC               Keith                                                94306
     29 Laurie            Levy                                                 94306
     30 Elizabeth         Dong                                                 94306
     31  Paul             Seaver                                               94306
     32 Jean-marc         mommessin                                            94306
     33 Tim               Perkins                                              94306
     34 Nicola            Chriss                                               94306
     35 Hing              Sham                                                 94306
     36  Bob              Adle                                                 94306
     37 Edith             Carrick                                              94306
     38 Ester             Chiachio                                             94306
     39  Min              Chung                                                94306
     40 Douglas           Eck                                                  94306
     41 Claire            Fiennes                                              94306
     42 Hugo              Fiennes                                              94306
43   Anne        Hessing      94306
44   Lee         Hsiand       94306
45   Lowt        Lakye        94306
46   Choi        Lee          94306
47   Xiaohua     Liu          94306
48   Jack        Liu          94306
49   Mattison    Lutini       94306
50   Trene       Mata         94306
51   Kevin       Moore        94306
52   kathleen    murren       94306
53   Amie        Neff         94306
54   Ying        On           94306
55   Oscar       Redondo      94306
56   Eva         Shen         94306
57   Stephen     Shigematsu   94306
58   Chikako     Shigmatsu    94306
59   Neera       Sohoni       94306
60   Venkat      Sohoni       94306
61   Pauline     Tran         94306
62   Michael     Wu           94306
63   Jane        Xue          94306
64   Mark        Segato       94306
65   Lori        McCormick    94306
66   Nisha       Datta        94306
67   Brian       McCormick    94306
68   Lori        McCormick    94306
69   Susan       Burnett      94306
70   Jason       Matlof       94301
71   David       Shen         94301
72   lei         lin          94303
73   Katherine   Lose'        94303
74   Linda       Jensen       94301
75   Mike        Li           94303
76   Mercia      Zheng        94303
77   Ana         Funes        94306
78   Anne        Schmtt       94306
79   Yi          Zhang        94306
80   Jihong      Fang         94306
81   Karen       Schreiber    94306
82   Cristiana   Costa        94306
83   A           Fiedzienly   94306
84   S.          Fiedzivsko   94306
85   Xiangqim    Hu           94306
86   Zhengqi     Li           94306
87   Harry       Maklee       94306
88   Curis       May          94306
89   MB          McGrath      94306
 90   I             Purse         94306
 91   Youxiang      Wang          94306
 92   Anna          Wang          94306
 93   Kevin         Wang          94306
 94   Yi            Zheng         94306
 95   Lillian       Arajon        94306
 96   Han           Chen          94306
 97   Xun           Liu           94306
 98   Diwret        Lou McCourt   94306
 99   Roxanne       Patel         94306
100   Jean          Wang          94306
101   Ying          Zhang         94306
102   Rebacca       Marasco       94306
103   Mary          Shaw          94306
104   Aleqeksandr   Shvets        94306
105   Patrice       Banal         94306
106   Ying          Fong          94306
107   Jean          Qiu           94306
108   Michael       Wessel        94306
109   Jawahar       Chiguruapti   94303
110   Karen         Kalinsky      94306
111   Kathy         Lierle        94303
112   Shachi        Bahl          94306
113   Lucy          Baldwin       94306
114   Carol         Bly           94306
115   Jim           Bly           94306
116   Brian         Cooper        94306
117   Michelle      Djolic        94306
118   Becky         Epstein       94306
119   Craig         Evans         94306
120   Angela        Feng          94306
121   Joanna        Jiao          94306
122   Trevor        Jones         94306
123   Kyung         Jung          94306
124   Yoon          Jung          94306
125   Anne          Littleboy     94306
126   John          Littleboy     94306
127   Diana         Luberman      94306
128   Krista        McDermott     94306
129   Andrea        Moore         94306
130   Keith         Reckdahl      94306
131   Jaime         Ross          94306
132   Anakarid      Salles        94306
133   Mark          Talbott       94306
134   Nicolas       Talbott       94306
135   Ken           Wagner        94306
136   Keri          Wagner        94306
137   James       Young        94306
138   Lindsay     Zosmo        94306
139   Sergei      Lopatin      94306
140   Elizabeth   Cowie        94306
141   Jim         Cowie        94306
142   Jinghong    Liu          94306
143   Ashish      Patwardhan   94306
144   Sonia       Patwardhan   94306
145   David       Collins      94306
146   Lianying    Duan         94306
147   Paula       Collins      94306
148   Ana         Barabas      94306
149   Karen       Brannon      94306
150   Deyu        Hu           95306
151   Samir       Mittal       94306
152   Jennifer    Ramberg      94306
153   Nicholas    Hall         94306
154   Rinat       Beeri        94306
155   Nikki       Narang       94306
156   Sophie      Ravel        94306
157   Miriam      Brown        94306
158   Jonathan    Brown        94306
159   Suman       Kasturia     94306
160   Franklin    Shifrin      94306
161   Vanessa     You          94306
162   Nancy       Hogan        94303
163   Calvin      Chen         94306
164   Jayendu     Jayendu      94306
165   Jaya        Pandey       94306
166   Crystal     Botham       94306
167   Peir        Wen Xu       94306
168   LYNDA       HEIDEN       94306
169   Chris       Proia        94306
170   Valerie     Stinson      94306
171   Shesleara   Ballopos     94306
172   Davina      Brown        94303
173   Sunita      Sarin        94303
174   payvand     kadivar      94301
175   Betsy       Dickie       94303
176   Anamari     Eng          94306
177   Ceabi       Senguta      94306
178   Johanna     Sunden       94306
179   Marius      Milner       94306
180   Casie       Walker       94306
181   Manjusree   Bose         94306
182   Katie       O'Conner     94306
183   Prerana     Vaidya       94306
184   Peter         Streiff       94306
185   Roberta       Stone         94303
186   Rich          Kimble        94306
187   Ali           Vand          94306
188   Jessica       Vand          94306
189   Douglas       Ha            94306
190   Lisa          Lawrence      94306
191   Robert        March         94306
192   Sarah         Nguyen        94306
193   Christopher   Ouk           94306
194   Karen         Ouk           94306
195   Vasui         Dhir          94306
196   T.R.          Ranganath     94306
197   Lucy          Wu            94306
198   Cindy         Kao           94306
199   Cheryl        Basden        94306
200   Daniel        Lilienstein   94306
201   Pearlin       Yang          94306
202   Christine     Czarnecki     94301
203   Christine     Stafford      94306
204   Lina          Qiu           94306
205   Susanne       Wisen         94306
206   Zhen          Xue           94306
207   Scilly        Wang          94306
208   Laura         Clausen       94306
209   DIANA         COLLINS       94040
210   stephen       gaudio        94040
211   Jonathan      Luk           94306
212   Jett          Richards      94040
213   Shan          Richards      94040
214   John          Pan           94306
215   Abraham       Shacham       94306
216   Dan           Fortune       94306
217   Daniel        Fortune       94306
218   Graham        Rodwell       94306
219   Alan          LEE           94306
220   Mukul         Agarwal       94306
221   Daniela       Kuehu         94306
222   Michael       Kuehu         94306
223   Alan          Lee           94306
224   Zoe           Peters        94306
225   Tor           Ravbenheime   94306
226   Maria         Shuth         94306
227   Lorrin        Lewis         94306
228   Karen         Ceresnak      94306
                    Ramachandra
229 Janaki          n             94306
230   Anupam      Bordia       94306
231   Surbhi      Bordia       94306
232   Karen       Cenesnak     94306
233   Scott       Cenesnak     94306
234   Nagini      Chilukuri    94306
235   Sumita      Debata       94306
236   LETHA       DiLauro      94306
237   Phil        Douglas      94306
238   Tracy       Douglas      94306
239   Marilyn J   Edwardson    94306
240   Phil        Egan         94306
241   Gary        Forman       94306
242   Anjan       Ghose        94306
243   Wendy       Ghose        94306
244   Susan       Gray         94306
245   Jeanne      Hamrick      94306
246   Logan       Hanson       94306
247   Scott       Hemenway     94306
248   David       Herzl        94306
249   John        Hofer        94306
250   Renee       Hofer        94306
251   Muir        Hooper       94306
252   Carolyn     Horne        94306
253   Jonathan    Horne        94306
254   David       Jeong        94306
255   Gwen        Jeong        94306
256   Ashalata    Karmarkar    94306
257   Vish        Karmarkar    94306
258   Anupama     Kumar        94306
259   Apurb       Kumar        94306
260   Lee         Langhammer   94306
261   Wing        Law          94306
262   Kwok        Law          94306
263   Richard     Lee          94306
264   Christina   Lee          94306
265   Ivy         Li           94306
266   Kenneth     Li           94306
267   Irene       Lloyd        94306
268   David       Lui          94306
269   Linda       Lui          94306
270   Jeff        Marcacci     94306
271   Lisa        Marcacci     94306
272   Jonathan    Marion       94306
273   Sarah       Marion       94306
274   Stephanie   Martinson    94306
275   Robert      Martison     94306
276   Wilma       Milligan     94306
                  Narayanaswa
277   Vanaja      my                94306
278   Saxon       Noh               94306
279   Virginia    Noh               94306
280   Aareev      Panda             94306
281   Arun        Panda             94306
282   Parag       Patkar            94306
283   Beverly     Rodriges          94306
284   Min-yi      Shen              94306
285   Pradeep     Solanki           94306
286   Swati       Solanki           94306
287   Maxim       Stepana           94306
288   Constance   Stillinger        94306
289   Yumei       Sun               94306
                  Tepanechnikov
290   Yurily      a                 94306
291   FLAVIU      TUREAN            94306
292   Jayaraman   Vasudevan         94306
293   Ilya        Vergman           94306
294   Antonia     Wang              94306
295   Deborah     Waxman            94306
                  Yepanechnikov
296   Svetlana    a                  94306
297   Joelle      Zom                94306
298   Sarada      Chigurupati        94301
299   Chaks       Chigurupati        94306
300   Joseph      Doniach            94306
301   Janine      Hodgson            94306
302   John        Wiese              94306
303   Shira       Yair               94306
304   Amber       Chang              94306
305   Kathleen    T. Chen            94306
306   Jing        Mu                 94306
307   Yang        Wang               94306
308   Kai         Zhu                94306
309   Hongmin     Lu                 94306
310   Ting        Jiang              94306
311   Yidong      Tong               94306
312   Lin         Zhang              94306
313   Len         Filppu             94306
314   Charlotta   Hauksdottir        94306
315   Jenny       Kuan               94306
                                  94306-
316 Erica         Brand

317 Pahson        Korahon           94306
318 Ashwinee      Khaladkar         94306
319 Bhushan       Khaladkar         94306
320   krys            corbett           94306
321   Paul            Ramsbottom        94306
322   Alex            Woo               94306
323   Kristinn        Gudjenssa         94306
324   Li              Feng              94306
325   Will            Xie               94306
326   Carol           Chatfield         94306
327   Cynthia         Patrick           94306
328   James           Silver            94306
329   Susan Phinney   Silver            94306
330   Henry           Yu                94306
331   Anne            Fillin            94303
332   Carol           MacDonell         94303
333   Walter          Murray            94303
334   Dulce           Ponceleon         94303
335   Vijay           Varma             94306
336   Sunita          Verma             94303
337   Niels           Smaby             94306
338   Hossam          Bahlool           94306
339   Yoel            Crane             94306
340   Hari            Iyer              94306
341   Parvati         Iyer              94306
342   Carmina         Luce              94306
343   Henry           Luce              94306
344   Sedgid          Oklander          94306
345   Tina            Phi               94306
346   Rime            Sand              94306
347   Elsie           Wu                94306
348   Seth            Wu                94306
349   Sheralyn        Listgarten        94306
350   Byron           Young             94306
351   qing            he                94303
352   Randy           Butera            94306
353   Susan           Iannucci          94306
354   Suzanne         Jacobs            94306
355   Carol           Kuner             94306
                                     94306-
356   Martin W.       Molloy, Ph.D
357   Bonny           Parke            94306
358   Xiaofang        Zhu              94306
359   Marilyn         Bauriedel        94306
360   William         Bauriedel        94306
361   ramarao         digumarthi       94306
362   Kari            Hodgson          94306
363   dov             lantsman         94306
364   Barbara         Jaarsma          94303
365   Bruce           Chen             94303
366   Arancha      Rodriquez       94306
367   Nicholas     Filipp          94306
368   Gongwen      Huang           94306
369   Amelia       Tung            94306
370   Anna         Wichansky       94306
371   Xiuzhen      Zhong           94306
372   Jinyong      Han             94306
373   Kathy        Davis           94306
374   Carlos       Feder           94306
375   Jacqueline   Feder           94306
376   Edwin        Fox             94306
377   Allison      Kin             94306
378   Florence     LaRivere        94306
379   Ginny        LaViviera       94306
380   Katie        Wies            94306
381   Bina         Shah            94306
382   Shirley      Wang            94306
383   Jucquelya    Caierea         94303
384   Anat         Gur             94306
385   Nadav        Gur             94306
386   Ellen        Harfog          94306
387   Sishi        Long            94306
388   Wei          Xiao            94306
389   Daksha       Dave            94303
390   Cynthia      Costell         94306
391   Debra        Wittenbrink     94306
392   Barbara      Carter          94301

393 Mayra          Gonzalos        94306

394 Tranj          Ngugen          94306

395 Ratnadeep      Bhattacharjee   94306

396 Assim          Gupta           94306

397   Dina         Saari           94306
398   Evelyn       Aguon           94306
399   Nicolas      Aguon           94306
400   Randy        Aguon           94306
401   Taylor       Aguon           94306
402   Dipti        Borkar          94306
403   Mandar       Borkar          94306
404   Ann          Chen            94306
405   Kapil        Chhabra         94306
406   Anthony      Ching           94306
407   Swati        Chopra          94306
408   Tim          Gadus           94306
409   Khurshid    Gandhi        94306
410   Khushroo    Gandhi        94306
411   Olge        Gellenbage    94306
412   Coleen      Lorenz        94306
413   Win         Naina         94306
414   Susie       Robbins       94306
415   Mary        Sheng         94306
416               Suzuki        94306
417   Leila       Vand          94306
418   Reza        Vand          94306
419   Francisco   Wei           94306
420   David       Ephron        94306
421   Lara        Ephron        94306
422   Lynne       Shietzel      94306
423   Eric        Stietzel      94306
424   Corine      Cesana        94306
425   Joseph      Cesana        94306
426   Tanya       Do            94306
427   Patty       Fewer         94306
428   Ann         Garr          94306
429   Rex         Garr          94306
430   R.          Gillespie     94306
431   Annie       Hempstead     94306
432   James       Hempsteuce    94306
433   Bernard     Heng          94306
434   Rene        Ho            94306
435   Joan        Jennings      94306
436   Steve       Jennings      94306
437   Werner      Jr            94306
438   Yong        Lee           94306
439   Sang-Min    Lee           94306
440   Mary        Lee           94306
441   Yan         Li            94306
442   Josh        Maltz         94306
443   Andreea     Manolache     94306
444   Silvia      Manolache     94306
445   Don         Marquant      94306
446   Jan         Moeller       94306
447   Khosrow     Moslehi       94306
448   Maryam      Mossadeghia   94306
449   Son         Nguyen        94306
450   Son         Nguyen        94306
451   Carlin      Otto          94306
452   D           Petillo       94306
453   Kirtee      Raparia       94306
454   Syed        Rizvi         94306
455   Kimiko      Sanami        94306
456   Deborah         Shaoub-Ju     94306
457   Deborah         Sharb         94306
458   Jieun           Shin          94306
459   Claire          Smith         94306
460   Glenn           Smith         94306
461   Jeff            Wolfeld       94306
462   Jennifer        Wolfeld       94306
463   David           Xue           94306
464   Jaime           Shpall        94306
465   Justin          Branue        94306
466   Jennie          Chan          94306
467   Nirav           Chhatrapati   94306
468   Deepa           Cuere         94306
469   Leslie          Donahue       94306
470   Jagannath       Dubashi       94306
471   Mona            He            94306
472   Mona            He            94306
473   Joan            Holtzman      94306
474   Leena           Joshi         94306
475   Dhinja          Karthik       94306
476   Floreue         Keller        94306
477   Jennifer        Lee           94306
478   Keith           Lee           94306
479   Rita            Lee           94306
480   Ryan            Lee           94306
481   Ann             M. Robinson   94306
482   Michael         Moorhead      94306
483   william         moss          94306
484   Jagdish         Pamani        94306
485   Jagdish         Pamnani       94306
486   James           Porter        94306
487   Richard         Rosenberg     94306
488   Alex            Ross          94306
489   Philip          Smaller       94306
490   Jatians         Tchoub        94306
491   Amor            Terrazas      94306
492   Magda           V. Grant      94306
493   Jenny           Wang          94306
494   Ziming          Weng          94306
495   Yiashua         Zhang         94306
496   Jonathan        Zhang         94306
497   Lama            Rimawi        94306
498   Susan           McConnell     94306
499   Nancy & Herve   Vanclef       94306
500   Nicole          Young         94306
Carnahan, David

From:                Mueller, Ray <RDMueller@menlopark.org>
Sent:                Monday, December 17, 2018 11:56 AM
To:                  Council, City
Cc:                  menlo.mueller@gmail.com
Subject:             Re: Tunnel for High Speed Rail


?Apologies for the inserted question mark after my name. My apple laptop does not always work well with our city
email system.


________________________________
From: Mueller, Ray
Sent: Monday, December 17, 2018 11:54 AM
To: city.council@cityofpaloalto.org
Cc: menlo.mueller@gmail.com
Subject: Tunnel for High Speed Rail

Dear Mayor Kniss and Esteemed Palo Alto City Councilmembers,

While I cannot speak for the newly seated City Council of Menlo Park, as we have not yet met on this issue, I can speak
for myself. I remain very interested in meeting with representatives of the Palo Alto City Council and other City Councils
subregionally, formally, to discuss the viability of a tunnel for high speed rail in our portion of the peninsula. My hope is
you will not dismiss this alternative until we have had a chance to discuss this option, collaboratively, together.

With kind regards,
Ray Mueller?




                                                              1
Carnahan, David

From:                Amie Neff <amie.neff@gmail.com>
Sent:                Monday, December 17, 2018 11:21 AM
To:                  Council, City; Cory Wolbach; Adrian Fine; Filseth, Eric (external); kou.pacc@gmail.com; Tom DuBois;
                     Greg Tanaka; Scharff, Greg; electcormack@gmail.com; Shikada, Ed; Keene, James; De Geus, Robert
Subject:             Train Grade Separation Alternative


Dear Council and Rail Committee Members,
I am unable to attend tonights meeting, but would like to add to my neighbors voices and ask the council to carefully
consider the lasting impact tonight's decision will have on our community.

I would urge you to eliminate all above‐ground options for South Palo Alto.

I would also urge you to study the option of putting the passenger train in a tunnel below, with freight above. This will
be the best long‐term solution. The future of freight on this line is uncertain. Why would we spend millions to
accommodate a train which is running infrequently, and maybe not for long.


To Misters Keene, Scharff, and Wolbach, I'm sorry to see you three go and appreciate all your years of service and
dedication to this project, and the City of Palo Alto.

Happy Holidays Everyone, and Best Wishes for the New Year.

‐‐
Amie Neff
M.Arch, LEED® AP
‐‐
cell: 650/ 396/ 9146
amie.neff@gmail.com
www.capabledesign.com




                                                             2
Carnahan, David

From:                Nathan Szajnberg <nmoshe@gmail.com>
Sent:                Monday, December 17, 2018 2:55 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Please use measured, thoughtful judgement about this rail question. Think of other priorities, such as
                     future pension funding, schools, etc..


The “rail” question has taken on its own momentum and with single‐minded advocates.

You, our elected officials, can consider our other City priorities as mentioned above and others you would know better
than I.

Please put a hold on moving precipitously forward.

In the interim, what about asking one of our Silicon Valley companies about developing a better algorithm for wait times
at crossings.?

And the “compromise” plan of having freight trains run on the tracks and spending millions to put passengers
underground seems not a fine fix.

Please exercise your judgement and knowledge about our future needs.

Nathan Szajnberg, MD And Yikun Wu, Ph.D.

PS. The cost estimates I’ve read for increased taxes to pay for tunnels or such would increase my monthly real estate tax
to an amount that I, a semi‐retired physician, could not afford.




                                                            1
Carnahan, David

From:               Helen Golden <hsgoldenart@gmail.com>
Sent:               Monday, December 17, 2018 3:13 PM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            Re: Rail Crossing decisions




To: The Palo Alto City Council
Re: Rail Crossings
Date: Monday, December 17, 2018


Thank you for bringing the interests of the full community to the decision‐making process by pursuing the viaduct
option but I am concerned that the meeting this evening, Monday, December 17, 2018 at 8:00PM will be at an
inopportune time and the issue will not get the proper attention. Don’t we already have a January 23rd meeting
scheduled to discuss related issues?


However, I do ask that when the railroad grade crossings are discussed tonight, that you please
consider the potential multi-year traffic impacts of your decision--the impacts to our school kids and to
our local businesses, the added travel times and the merciless congestion that we would have to
contend with, and the ability of all of us to move around our community for many long years.



The viaduct option alone – according to the staff report—has minimal impacts to roadways during
construction--plus an option to build the track without a shoofly. The viaduct option further creates
new real estate underneath the track, a very interesting feature and a viaduct could be visually
preferable to a raised solid wall. Despite fears expressed continually, the noise impacts, according to
staff, will be attenuated.



Sincerely yours,

Helen Golden

850 Webster Street

Palo Alto, CA 94301




                                                          1
Carnahan, David

From:                William Xuan <william.y.xuan@gmail.com>
Sent:                Monday, December 17, 2018 3:33 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Railroad


Dear council,
We should try to identify the best financial option for our city. Given the current state of budgetary finances, we are in
no position to entertains ‘viaducts’ and ‘tunnels’. Instead, it seems more suitable to build an underpass for pedestrians,
like the one near Paly. Or we could just have a highway style barrier next to the tracks as a crude sound barrier of sorts,
or both. The only people who are pushing for it are those who stand to benefit the most when their property values rise
as a result, otherwise known as a vocal minority, while everyone else suffers.
It’s time for us to face it, Palo Alto doesn’t have unlimited money, and it's from that standpoint in which we should look
at this issue.
Thanks,
William




                                                             1
Carnahan, David

From:                 Gregory Brail <greg@brail.org>
Sent:                 Monday, December 17, 2018 3:35 PM
To:                   Council, City
Subject:              Rail tunnel options for December 17


Dear councilors:

December 17 is too soon to change any grade separation options that involve a tunnel.

The staff has recommended studying a tunnel that begins south of California Avenue. Studying such an option as an
alternative to a viaduct or a hybrid option for South Palo Alto makes a lot of sense if there's a chance that it will yield an
affordable tunnel.

However, we have not discussed this particular tunnel option publicly or at the CAP. The only tunnel option that we have
discussed publicly or at the CAP is one that begins further north, between Embarcadero and Churchill.

It's also likely that neither of these options is the "city‐wide tunnel" that many are imagining. Given that so many
residents are pinning their hopes on a tunnel that we can all afford, it makes sense to take the time to get it right.




                                                               2
                                                                                    COUNCIL MEETING
                                                                                            12/17/2018
                                                                                        Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                                   4
Carnahan, David
                                                                                    ✔




From:                  Elizabeth Wong <elizabethwong2009@gmail.com>
Sent:                  Friday, December 7, 2018 5:06 AM
To:                    rothlaw1@comcast.net; Yang, Albert; Stump, Molly; Keene, James; Lait, Jonathan; Timothy Kassouni
                       Andrea Sacramento, Park 7th St Entrance; Council, City
Subject:               Fwd: Council Hearing Dec 3


Please see forwarded link to video of council hearing on December 3.

Thanks.

Elizabeth

Sent from my iPad

Begin forwarded message:

          From: "Carnahan, David" <David.Carnahan@CityofPaloAlto.org>
          Date: December 4, 2018 at 2:37:31 PM PST
          To: Elizabeth Wong <elizabethwong2009@gmail.com>
          Cc: Timothy Kassouni <timothy@kassounilaw.com>, Andrew Wong <a.jaime.wong@gmail.com>, Jaime
          Wong <jandewong@gmail.com>
          Subject: RE: Council Hearing Dec 3

          Elizabeth,

          Here is the LINK.

          David Carnahan, Deputy City Clerk, MPA
          O: 650‐329‐2267 | E: david.carnahan@cityofpaloalto.org




                                                             1
                                                                                  COUNCIL MEETING

                                                                                   ✔
                                                                                           12/17/2018
                                                                                       Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                                  4
Carnahan, David

From:               Michael Harbour <dr.mharbour@gmail.com>
Sent:               Friday, December 14, 2018 9:05 PM
To:                 Council, City
Cc:                 Architectural Review Board; Adam Petersen; Lait, Jonathan; Shikada, Ed; Stump, Molly; Keene, James
Subject:            429 University has come to the end of its rope


Dear City Council Members,
The Palo Alto Weekly invited me to write a guest column in today's edition regarding the issues surrounding ongoing
code violations of 429 University Ave at Kipling Street. The developer has not designed an approvable plan despite
multiple opportunities. The plan violates the council Motion from February 6, 2017. I've attached a link to the
article: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/print/story/2018/12/14/guest‐opinion‐should‐persistent‐developers‐get‐to‐
ignore‐city‐laws
The Council is scheduled to hear the item on Monday evening. I urge the Council to uphold the denial and deny any
further extension.
Thanks,
Michael Harbour, MD, MPH




                                                          1
Carnahan, David

From:                Peter Brewer <peter@brewerfirm.com>
Sent:                Saturday, December 15, 2018 2:38 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             429 University Ave., at Kipling Street



Honorable Council Members, Please turn down, with finality, the inappropriate plans for
development of 429 University Ave., at Kipling Street, for all the reasons recited in the article
in “Palo Alto – Online”, affiliated with the Palo Alto
Weekly:     https://www.paloaltoonline.com/print/story/2018/12/14/guest‐opinion‐should‐persistent‐developers‐
get‐to‐ignore‐city‐laws

Thank you,
Peter Brewer
Owner of 2501 Park Blvd.
Palo Alto


 Peter N. Brewer, Esq.
 Brewer Offord & Pedersen LLP
 2501 Park Blvd, 2nd Flr.
 Palo Alto, CA 94306
 (650) 327‐2900 x 12
 www.BrewerFirm.com
 BayAreaRealEstateLawyers.com
 Real Estate Law – From the Ground Up®




                                                          2
Carnahan, David

From:                 Bob Taber <rtaber@covad.net>
Sent:                 Sunday, December 16, 2018 7:55 PM
To:                   Council, City
Subject:              429 University Ave: please stick to the codes


Palo Alto City Council members,
As residents of 328 Kipling Street (downtown north) since 1982, we have been dismayed at the steady demands of
developers and their architects for approval for projects that significantly over‐ride the allowances of Palo Alto’s
carefully‐composed guidelines (and building codes). Please bring this to an end; we are overdue to come to a time when
developers understand that the city plans were carefully and thoughtfully composed and asking for special permission to
evade the various codes and guidelines is a waste of time and resources. Let’s stick to the plans!

Carolyn & Bob Taber
328 Kipling St.
Palo Alto




                                                              3
Carnahan, David

From:                Evan Reade <evanreade@aol.com>
Sent:                Monday, December 17, 2018 8:13 AM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             429 University


Dear City Council Members:

I would like to add my voice to those that already OPPOSE the project proposed for 429 University. I have followed the
developments leading to the current situation and attended the last meeting where you examined this issue. The project
is too large, does not conform to the aesthetic of our existing downtown and is quite unattractive. I am reminded
somewhat of the very sorry example of the concrete and glass structure that comes right out to the street on the 600 block
of Waverley. While perhaps a fine building standing on its own, in it's current location it is an eyesore that just doesn't
belong.

I urge you to stand behind, support, and follow the advice of your ARB and City Staff. I believe your responsibility is to
preserve quality of life issues for those living in this city, and that this includes protecting the character of our
downtown. You should not be intimidated by a deep-pocket developer who has already established a history of ramming
things down your throats and those of their neighbors because they're willing to challenge you with lawsuits.

I believe in progress, and recognized that University Avenue should not somehow be frozen in time. But projects
undertaken in the heart of our city must be reasonable and at least somewhat conforming to the existing character of our
downtown. Please do the right thing:

-- stand behind those professionals and board members who have already spent hours trying to make this project work
but who have concluded that it doesn't;
-- protect the aesthetics of our existing downtown;
-- don't cave in; to do so will only encourage others to pursue the same tactics.

Sincerely,

Evan G. Reade
Sharon Court




                                                             4
Carnahan, David

From:             JIM POPPY <jamespoppy@comcast.net>
Sent:             Monday, December 17, 2018 10:46 AM
To:               Council, City
Subject:          Just say NO to 429 University Avenue



Ms. Wong has abused the system long enough. Please refuse this eyesore and poorly planned
project.



Thank you,

Jim Poppy

135 Melville Avenue




                                                    5
Carnahan, David

From:             Suzanne Keehn <dskeehn@pacbell.net>
Sent:             Monday, December 17, 2018 2:35 PM
To:               Council, City
Subject:          429 University



To the Palo Alto City Council,


The owner of this building has disregarded many instructions about size, not complied
with the original
dimensions, will change the face of University and Kipling with an ugly building, do we
need another one
in our city? The ally way will not be able to facilitate all the additional cars and certainly
creates more congestion
with no way to escape. Kipling St. is the narrowest street in the downtown. Our ARB
needs to have higher standards
for what is allowed in P.A. For all the reasons that Michael Harbour has listed and the
recommendations of the Planning
Dept, ARB and the HRB and the neighbors, please do permanently deny the developer's
plan.

Thank You,
Suzanne Keehn
4076 Orme St.
9430



by Michael Harbour

How many years should a developer be allowed to wear down city staff and residents in
order to push through bad construction plans?

The City Council will hold a crucial meeting on Dec. 17 to evaluate the future of 429
University Ave., at Kipling Street, in downtown Palo Alto after facing years of pressure
from the property owner to accept her development plans or face litigation. Now is the
time that the Council should follow the respective recommendations of the Palo Alto
Planning Department, Architectural Review Board, Historical Review Board and many
neighbors and permanently deny the developer's poorly designed plan.

This proposed building is a massive four-story, cold cement block patterned after the
city garage and office complex at 102 University Ave. The proposed design is not
pedestrian friendly, which should be a priority since it is prominently located in a public
shopping area. It removes the existing pattern of shelter, awnings and alcoves, which
are comforting in rainy weather and replaces them with an immense flat wall. The
                                                    1
proposed building does not enhance the surrounding historical neighborhood. The
largest proportion of the building is dedicated to office space, which will most likely
subject the rest of us to the associated traffic congestion created by new daily roundtrip
commuters using the space.

The proposal also includes demolishing four Birge Clark buildings on the site, including
those once occupied by the Shady Lane gift store and Design Within Reach showroom.
Municipal Code specifies that a proposed new building must be appropriate in size, scale,
mass and transition to its neighbors. The Council passed a motion stating that the
developer must consider all sides of the building in its design, including Kipling Street
and the alleyway behind the building. The Downtown Development Guidelines also
encourage the responsible development of new businesses that open onto alleyways.
This proposal inhibits that goal.

Kipling Street is a quaint street lined by historic one- and two-story Victorian homes and
beautiful gardens. Kipling Street also is the narrowest street in downtown Palo Alto —
nearly half the width of Bryant or Waverley streets. Yet, the developer is trying to build
a multi-use project that would overwhelm the existing Victorians with the same tall and
massive buildings permitted on El Camino Real. The alley adjoining Kipling Street serves
as an entrance for several businesses. This proposed building would swallow up its
neighbors and convert the alley into a busy garage ramp.




                                             2
                                                                                  COUNCIL MEETING
                                                                                           12/17/2018            15
                                                                                   ✔
                                                                                       Received Before Meeting
Carnahan, David

From:              Nadia Naik <nadianaik@gmail.com>
Sent:              Sunday, December 16, 2018 4:43 PM
To:                Council, City
Cc:                Clerk, City; Minor, Beth; Keene, James; De Geus, Robert; Shikada, Ed; Megan Kanne; Philip Burton;
                   Carrasco, Tony; Inyoung Cho; Chris Logan; Greg Brail; Kari Hodgson; Parag Patkar; Mandar Borkar;
                   Dave Shen; Patricia Lau
Subject:           URGENT: Request to pull Consent Item #15 - Caltrain Electrification Agreement
Attachments:       CARRD Public Comment- Consent- Caltrain Electrification agreement.pdf


Attached please find CARRD's recommendation to pull the Caltrain Electrification Agreement from Consent
Calendar

There are a number of issues that warrant a robust City Council discussion - including the type and placement
of the electrification poles, the wiring on the historic bridge and the staging and storage areas highlighted on
the maps that are drawn over places with existing trees and bushes.

More details are provided in our comments attached.

Thanks,
Nadia Naik
CARRD




                                                          1
                             !
!
!
To: City Council

From: CARRD (Nadia Naik – nadianaik@gmail.com)

Date: December 17, 2018

Re: Recommendation to pull Consent Calendar Item #15: Caltrain Electrification
Agreement


CARRD requests the Caltrain Electrification Agreement (Consent Calendar item #15) be
pulled from consent. We understand the sense of urgency to approve the Caltrain
Electrification agreement, however, there are significant items that warrant more
detailed oversight by the City Council.

Were it not for how big the grade separation projects are, the electrification of Caltrain
would be the single largest and most significant change to happen to the ROW in Palo
Alto. As such, it deserves more careful attention to the details.

CARRD notices at least
!
1. Staging Areas:

The map on page 28 and 29 of the packet for this item (Exhibit C) are maps showing
two staging areas (attached). One image shows a diagram overlaid on what appears to
be mature oaks (google maps view) that border the soccer fields near PA Avenue. The
other appears to be the area between East Meadow and Charleston along the tracks
and Alma. The diagram is overlaid on the trees and bushes that currently serve as a
buffer. Will the use of the space as a staging area require additional removal of trees
and shrubs? Is this a permanent storage area? In South Palo Alto, if it is permanent
storage does that impact shoo-fly design?

2. Historic Bridge over San Francisquito Bridge:

The San Francisquito creek rail bridge is historic. We recently reviewed the relevant EIR
section (http://www.caltrain.com/Assets/Caltrain+Modernization+Program/FEIR/3.4+Cultural.pdf)
that says:
"The installation of the power system supports on this historically significant bridge
could result in significant adverse impacts...Substantial alteration of the bridge structure
could be a significant impact. With implementation of Mitigation Measure CUL-1d, the
historic resource would not be altered other than the small clearance holes, and the
cables would be suspended above and parallel to the existing railroad line. Thus, with
mitigation there would be no significant impact on the characteristics of the bridge that
make it appear to meet the criteria for listing in the CRHR."

Mitigation measure CUL-1d has measures regarding pole placement at historic stations
that don't seem directly applicable.

Mitigation measure CUL-1f, however, has information specific to the bridge.

"The OCS cables shall be suspended from the upper portions of the San Francisquito
Creek Bridge truss. The power cables shall use fasteners and brackets to support
the power lines. The brackets shall be attached to the existing structure, but no
part of the existing structure shall be removed as a part of the Proposed Project.
Installation of the main support brackets shall require no permanent modification to the
bridge structure and shall be completely removable. Installation of the static wire
grounding brackets will require site drilling of eight 5/8-inch diameter clearance holes,
with the brackets completely removable. No poles shall be set on the bridge itself."

This section makes clear there will actually be power support brackets on the bridge -
exactly what was described as potentially a significant impact.

We have never actually seen any plans showing what they would look like. As far as we
know, the ARB has not reviewed them - relying on the main text that states there will
only be a few small holes drilled and unaware an un-cited mitigation measure described
the attachment of power supports. We assume the State Historic board also did the
same.

It is possible that the brackets are not an issue, but we think it is important to make sure
that the relevant parties have an opportunity to review the plans.

3. Pole Types and Pole Placement:

Several councilmembers have shown a keen interest in understanding what kinds of
poles will be placed in Palo Alto (center pole supports or side poles, etc.)

Reading the recent ARB staff report and minutes, we are a little confused on the status
of pole type decisions. The type of pole used can have a significant impact on tree
pruning and removal. It would be helpful to understand what is up for discussion and
what is non-negotiable. This is a significant concern for the residents and should be
closely understood and discussed publicly.

!
 &
N

N
         ~
         ()



., ~
  I

                                            PROPERTY INFORMATION                                                                                      SYMBOLS                                                   •              PENINSULA CORRIDOR JOINT POWERS BOARD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CADD Fll£ NAME   CADD DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ASAS_21-.30 - A 12052018
0
N
....-;
         0
         ~    - - - - - - -PCJPB          - - - - - - - SAMTRANS          - - - - - - - UPRR                                                            OPOSED STAGING/                                 Cal                           ELEcTR1F1cAT10N PROJECT                     ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       100•
0

¥ ~           -----~~~~E~fERATING         - - - - - - -SMCTA/VTA          ----- ~grpr~~~~~~~N                                               (         ::. ouRAGE AREA                                           AccEss . sTo RAGE ANo sTAGING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     •    .,                                       1-.,CO  _ _"°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        _ NTRACT .,.,-------.-MILEl'OST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ~=-~
0
                            RAI LROAD FRANCHISE                                                    CITY AND COUNTY                                    PROPOSED CONSTRUCTION                                                CITY OF
    ~                       ON CITY PROPERTY         - - - - - - - BART            - - - - - - - O F SAN FRANCISCO                                    ACCESS ALIGNMENT                   1250 Son Corloo Avenue           PALO ALTO                                  CWG NO                  REV PAGE NO
~ g ----------- PCJPB EASEMENT                       _ _ _ _ _ BART OPERATING      - - - - - S F P U C EASEMENT                                                                           Son Corio" CA 94070           SHEET 1 OF 2                                 MP 29 __,,_"'--___.
~ L.:.L.:=::::===:....:....:.~:::.::...::::::.:.:__ _ _ _ _ _2EA~S~E~M~EN~T:..__ _ _ _ _ ___::__:..::....:_:..:.._::___ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _J....._ _ _ _ _ _J....._ _ _ ___;:.:..:.::.::..:.._.:.._~-=;__----....i..;.;.;.;.......;;;_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Exhibit C (pg
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2 of 2)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               tw
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               _J




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CADO ALE MAME   CADO DAlE
                                          PROPERTY INFORMATION                                                                      SYMBOLS                                                                     PENINSULA CORRIDOR JOINT POWERS BOARD   ASAS_31-40      05202015
!   - - - - - - - PCJPB                 - - - - - - - SAMTRANS        - - - - - - - UPRR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT           SCALE


i                 PCJPB OPERATING
                                        - - - - - - - SMCTA/VTA
                                                                                    CllY EASEMENT ON                                          PROPOSED STAGING/STORAGE AREA
                                                                                                                                                                                  Cal•                      •      ACCESS, STORAGE AND STAGING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1 "=100'
                  EASEMENT
                   RAILROAD FRANCHISE   - - - - - - - BART            ------- CITY
                                                                                    PCJPB PROPERlY
                                                                                   AND COUNlY          EZ   PROPOSED STAGING/
                                                                                                            STORAGE AREA            t'.:/J    LYING PARTIALLY OR WHOLLY OUTSIDE
                                                                                                                                              OF JPB'S PROPERlY/OPERATING                                                      CITY OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CONl'RACT NO    MILEPOST



i
u
                   ON CITY PROPERlY
           ------- PCJPB EASEMENT
                                                     BART OPERATING
                                                     EASEMENT
                                                                              OF SAN FRANCISCO
                                                                                   SFPUC EASEMENT
                                                                                                            PROPOSED CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                            ACCESS ALIGNMENT
                                                                                                                                              EASEMENT LINES                       1250 Son Ccrlos Avenue
                                                                                                                                                                                    Son C<Jrlos. CA 94070
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PALO ALTO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SHEET 2 OF 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CIWO NO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MP 33
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R£V   PN1£. NO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               34
Carnahan, David

From:               Rebecca Sanders <rebsanders@gmail.com>
Sent:               Monday, December 17, 2018 11:29 AM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            Please Pull #15 off of consent tonight


Hello Council:
Thank goodness we have Nadia. Don't you think? I just read CAARD's analysis of the flaws of Agenda Item #15 and have
to agree that it should be pulled off consent. Thank you very much.
Becky Sanders.




                                                         1
Carnahan, David

From:                kemp650@aol.com
Sent:                Monday, December 17, 2018 11:45 AM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Request to pull Consent Item #15 - Caltrain Electrification Agreement from tonight's meeting agenda


Dear City Council members,

I am writing to urge you to pull Consent Item #15 - Caltrain Electrification Agreement from tonight's city council meeting
agenda. I agree with others who believe there are too many issues involved and that a public forum should be held before
this issue gets voted on by the city council. I also believe that it shouldn’t be rushed through in a year-end session by a
‘lame duck’ council. Electrification is a huge undertaking with lasting impacts over many years. I believe progress is being
made, but that we should take the time to allow for a public forum.

Thanks,

Susan Kemp
Ventura resident




                                                             1
From:             Kim Murray
To:               Council, City
Subject:          Tonight - Train Electrification
Date:             Monday, December 17, 2018 12:59:29 PM
Attachments:      image001.png



Hello:

Since it sounds like it is too early to discuss train electrification, I am requesting that you
pull #15 from the consent calendar and refrain from discussing till a later date.

From a Ventura Neighborhood resident.

Kim Murray
3543 Park Blvd.

Kim Murray
Director of Administrative Services
for Janine Bisharat



1550 El Camino Real, Suite 250
Menlo Park, CA 94025
Direct: 650-264-9087
Main: 650-328-2758
Fax: 650-242-4473
Kim@KarunaAdvisors.com| www.karunaadvisors.com
Carnahan, David

From:                  Angela Dellaporta <asdellaporta@gmail.com>
Sent:                  Monday, December 17, 2018 1:35 PM
To:                    Council, City
Subject:               Item #15


Dear City Council ‐‐

Please remove Item #15 from the consent calendar tonight. Addressing this issue on the without public input, during the
last meeting of the year, with a "lame duck" council is not good governance.

Thank you,

Angela Dellaporta




                                                           1
                                                                                      Please Contact the Clerk’s Office
                                                                                          to View Additional Pages,
                                                                                      Attachments, or Images Related
Carnahan, David                                                                               to this Document

From:               Suzanne Keehn <dskeehn@pacbell.net>
Sent:               Monday, December 17, 2018 1:49 PM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            Request to pull Consent Item #15 - Caltrain Electrification Agreement
Attachments:        CARRD Public Comment- Consent- Caltrain Electrification agreement.pdf



I have read the pdf below, and feel there are too many unknowns that will effect our
residents and community.
Please pull this item from the consent calendar.

Thank You,
Suzanne Keehn
4076 Orme St.
94306

-
 Request to pull Consent Item #15 - Caltrain Electrification Agreement



       Attached please find CARRD's recommendation to pull the Caltrain Electrification Agreement from
       Consent Calendar

       There are a number of issues that warrant a robust City Council discussion - including the type and
       placement of the electrification poles, the wiring on the historic bridge and the staging and storage areas
       highlighted on the maps that are drawn over places with existing trees and bushes.

       More details are provided in our comments attached.

       Thanks,
       Nadia Naik
       CARRD

       --
       >




                                                            1
Carnahan, David

From:               Nancy Adler <adcomm109@gmail.com>
Sent:               Monday, December 17, 2018 2:15 PM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            Caltrain Electrification Agreement


With regard to the above item on tonight’s agenda, I fully support CAARD ‐ Nadia Naik’s request to pull from consent,
Item 15. I agree that significant items need further oversight by the City Council.
Nancy Adler

Sent from my iPhone




                                                           1
Carnahan, David

From:              Pat Marriott <patmarriott@sbcglobal.net>
Sent:              Monday, December 17, 2018 3:15 PM
To:                Council, City
Subject:           Tonight's council agenda

Importance:        High



Council Members,
I read CARRDs email to council and I agree that Item 15, Caltrain Electrification Agreement, should be pulled
from the consent calendar.

There are too many complex issues and too much at stake to rush this through.
Thank you,
      Pat Marriott Palo Alto property owner




                                                        1
Carnahan, David

From:              Leslie Goldman <lrgc@sbcglobal.net>
Sent:              Monday, December 17, 2018 3:28 PM
To:                Council, City
Cc:                nadianaik@gmail.com; Neilson Buchanan
Subject:           Pull the Caltrain Electrification Agreement from Consent Calendar


Attn: Council

As a Palo Alto homeowner, voter and interested community member, I request that Council pull Item #15: Caltrain
Electrification Agreement from tonight's Consent Calendar.

As per CARRD's request, there are a number of issues that warrant a robust City Council discussion - including
the type and placement of the electrification poles, the wiring on the historic bridge and the staging and
storage areas highlighted on the maps that are drawn over places with existing trees and bushes.

Thank you,
Leslie Goldman Caine
Bryant Street




                                                          1
Carnahan, David

From:             herb <herb_borock@hotmail.com>
Sent:             Monday, December 17, 2018 3:35 PM
To:               Council, City; Clerk, City
Subject:          December 17, 2018, 4:30 pm City Council Meeting, Item #15: Caltrain Agreement


Herb Borock
P. O. Box 632
Palo Alto, CA 94302

December 17, 2018

Palo Alto City Council
250 Hamilton Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94301


DECEMBER 17, 2018, 4:30 PM CITY COUNCIL MEETING, AGENDA ITEM #15
AGREEMENT FOR CALTRAIN PENINSULA CORRIDOR ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT


Dear City Council:

Before you approve this agenda item, I urge you to find out what work
Caltrain has already done along its right-of-way in Palo Alto since it
announced in the last week of August 2018 that it was beginning that week
to work on its project in Palo Alto.

http://www.caltrain.com/about/MediaRelations/news/Caltrain_to_Hold_Public_Meeting_on_Electrification_i
n_Palo_Alto.html

Caltrain to Hold Public Meeting on Electrification in Palo Alto


August 27, 2018

Caltrain will host a community meeting on Tuesday, August 28, to discuss how
continued construction for the Caltrain Electrification project will affect Palo Alto. The
meeting will take place inside the Fireside Room of the Lucie Stern Community Center,
1305 Middlefield Road, from 6 p.m. to 7 p.m.

Construction activities are set to begin along the Caltrain right-of-way in Palo Alto this
week. These activities consist of utility potholing, tree pruning/removal and the
installation of the overhead contact system foundations.

The Caltrain Electrification project is a key component of the Caltrain Modernization
Program that will electrify the corridor from the San Francisco Caltrain Station at 4th and King streets
                                                       1
to approximately the Tamien Station in San Jose, and replace diesel-hauled trains with Electric
Multiple Unit (EMU) trains. Electrification will improve Caltrain’s system performance, enable more
frequent and/or faster train service, and reduce long-term environmental impact by reducing noise,
improving regional air quality and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Caltrain Electrification is
scheduled to be operational by 2022.

Thank you.


Herb Borock




                                                  2
                                                                                    COUNCIL MEETING
                                                                                            12/17/2018            18
                                                                                    ✔
                                                                                        Received Before Meeting
Carnahan, David

From:                Elizabeth Goldstein Alexis <ealexis@gmail.com>
Sent:                Sunday, December 16, 2018 4:11 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             ADU fee waiver- December 17, 4:30 pm Item 18 Consent Calendar - Please pull and amend proposed
                     law


I am glad to see the council taking steps to lower the costs of ADUs by eliminating the fees. Upon a close reading of the
bill, I was surprised to see that it will only apply to garage conversions where the garage is DETACHED.

The motion passed by council at the October 1, 2018 meeting stated:

"D. Eliminate the development fees for JADUs or for garage conversions;"

Nowhere did the motion specify that it should only apply to detached garages, not attached ones. I would request that
council pull this item from the consent agenda and amend the proposed law to include all garage conversions. ADUs will
almost all be naturally affordable housing. As a city and county, we are willing to provide hundreds of thousands of
dollars per unit to create affordable housing. It seems perverse to charge fees for a very economical way to create more
housing options in the city.

Regards
Elizabeth Alexis




                                                            1
Carnahan, David

From:             herb <herb_borock@hotmail.com>
Sent:             Monday, December 17, 2018 3:45 PM
To:               Council, City; Clerk, City
Subject:          December 17, 2018, 4:30 pm Council Meeting, Item #19: $4 million General Fund Savings


Herb Borock
P. O. Box 632
Palo Alto, CA 94302

December 17, 2018

Palo Alto City Council
250 Hamilton Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94301


DECEMBER 17, 2018, 4:30 PM CITY COUNCIL MEETING, AGENDA ITEM #19
$4 MILLION GENERAL FUND BUDGET AMENDMENTS


Dear City Council:

An earlier decision         to create a separate Infrastructure Fund that was
previously included         as part of the General Fund should not exempt the
Infrastructure Fund         from being considered whenever it is necessary to
reduce expenses for         any reason or to reallocate funds to other purposes.

Retaining infrastructure funding while cutting services tends to benefit
businesses at the expense of residents.

Sincerely,

Herb Borock




                                                       1
Carnahan, David

From:                  mark weiss <earwopa@yahoo.com>
Sent:                  Monday, December 17, 2018 1:41 PM
To:                    Council, City
Cc:                    Holman, Karen (external); Kniss, Liz (external); Becky Sanders; Roxy Rapp; Peter Pau; Elizabeth
                       Chapman; Zelkha, Mila; Miriam K. Freedman; Charlie Knox; Mateo Romero; Ken Dauber; Camille
                       Townsend; Terry Acebo Davis; David Hess
Subject:               artist colony in Ventura or at Cubberley



Yo:
(or Honorable Yo's):
The New York Times yesterday has an article about WestBeth artist colony in New York, a federally subsidized
project. Artists such as Diane Arbus, Patti Brown, Robert DiNero Sr., and Gil Evans lived and thrived there.

I'm wondering if there is support, among leadership, the arts, or philanthropy (like Laurene Powell Jobs' wonder
Emerson Collective) to create such a community in Palo Alto, perhaps at the 30-acre special district in Ventura
(east of El Camino, between Oregon and Meadow, aka "Fry's") or the Cubberley campus, which is a natural
transition in that it already is the locus of many arts offerings.

Finding Her Place at Westbeth




           Finding Her Place at Westbeth
           It took this writer 24 years to get a one‐bedroom in the West
           Village artists’ colony, and now she wouldn’t drea...




See: "A One-Bedroom That's Worth The 24-Year Wait: It took a decade to get a studio at an artists' colony, and
a while longer for something bigger" by Kim Velsey (NYT, Sunday December 16, 2018 p BU13).

I'm aware that I've suggested such pipe dreams and idealisms before, to no avail. Yet sometimes a pipe is not a
pipe.

Mark Weiss
Earthwise Productions of Palo Alto (25 years: 1993-2108+)
                                                                           1
Plastic Alto blog
3x candidate for Council
6x candidate for commission/board
Gunn graduate
Dartmouth graduate
married to a former arts commissioner (in fact, we met at the studio of an artist whose work is now at Mitchell
Park)
Bryant Street, Downtown North
(650) 305-0701




                                                        2
Carnahan, David

From:               Murphy, Seamus <murphys@samtrans.com>
Sent:               Wednesday, December 19, 2018 10:40 AM
To:                 Council, City
Cc:                 Fromson, Casey; Ledezma, Paola; Bouchard, Michelle; Reggiardo, Melissa; Petty, Sebastian
Subject:            Calrain Grade Separation responses
Attachments:        City of PA Caltrain Response 12-18-18.pdf


Mayor Kniss and Councilmembers,

Please see the attached letter responding to the City’s questions about grade separation requirements.

Please feel free to let me know if you have questions or need more information.


Seamus P. Murphy | Caltrain, SamTrans, SMCTA
Chief Communications Officer
1250 San Carlos Avenue | San Carlos, CA 94070
650.508.6388 | murphys@samtrans.com




                                                           1
                                                                                            B OARO OF DIRECTORS     2018

                                                                                            JEANl'llE B RUINS, C HAIR



Calr
                                                                                            GILLIAN GILLE.TT. VICE CHAIR
                                                                                            CHERYl BRINl<MAN
                                                                                            CINOV C HAVEZ
                                                                                            DEVORA ' D ev' DAVIS
                                                                                            JEFF GEE
                                                                                            0 AVE P INE
                                                                                            C HARLES STONE
                                                                                            MONIQUE ZMUDA

                                                                                            J IM H.!IRTt.IETT
                                                                                            EXECUTtVE D IRECTOR


  December 18, 2018

  Mayor Liz Kniss
  City of Palo Alto
  Office of the Mayor and City Council
  P.0. Box 10250
  Palo Alto, CA 94063

  Dear Mayor Kniss:

  Thank you for your letter regarding grade separation considerations. I understand Caltrain has
  discussed these issues with the City in various other venues, but wanted to make sure you have
  a consolidated response to the questions posed in the letter.

     1. Under what conditions would Ca/train accept a grade variance from 1 percent to 2
        percent, and what would the approval process be?

         Caltrain has a standard procedure for design variances. It outlines the approval process
         and required supporting documentation. The allowable maximum grade takes into
         consideration factors such as operational impacts, vehicle performance, proximity to
         stations, other site specific conditions, and maintenance impacts. A comprehensive
         study including operational simulations is required to support the design variance
         request. Additionally, the requester is responsible for the costs to support the v ariance
         review/analysis.

     2. Under what conditions would Coltrain accept a variance to the existing vertical clearance
        for poles and wires, and what would the approval process be?

         Caltrain minimum clearance to the pole and wires is established to meet California
         Public Utilities Commission requi rements such as General Order 95 and SED 2. Union
         Pacific Railroad also requires minimum clearances.

     3. How are grade separation design criteria and constraints likely to change in the future?

         The Caltrain Business Plan will he lp shape a long range vision for the corridor and will address
         how tra in service will grow over time and the kinds of supporting infrastructure that may be
         needed to support this growth. This work will include significant focus on the issue of grade-
         crossings and an effort to develop a corridor-wide strategy to support the funding and

                            PENINSULA CORRIDOR JOINT POWERS BOARD
                                 1250 San Carlos Ave. - P.O. Box 3006
                               San Carlos, CA 94070-1306 (650) 508-6269
Mayor Liz Kniss
December 18, 2018
Page 2 of 3

       implementation of grade separations. Any changes to Caltrain's standards must be considered
       in a way that is careful, deliberate and fully and fairly weighs both benefits and consequences,
       and should be undertaken on a system-wide basis. We anticipate working with the City of Palo
       Alto and other corridor communities in the coming year to begin this discussion.

   4. What should the City of Palo Alto assume regarding freight on the Ca/train right-of-way
       in the future?

       The City of Palo Alto should assume that freight will continue to operate diesel
       locomotives along the corridor, even after Caltrain electrifies the line. UPRR use of the
       Caltrain Corridor is governed by the Surface Transportation Board. Subsequently,
       Caltrain has a trackage rights agreement with UPRR that specifies the terms of freight
       operations. After the electrification of the Corridor, it is anticipated that a short-line
       freight operator will replace UPRR. In addition, the Caltrain Corridor is included in the
       STRACNET Corridor which specifies additional requirements to allow shipments of
       military equipment, if needed.

   5. What is Caltrain's criteria regarding shooflies that are likely needed for several grade
      separations during construction?

       In general, the shoofly track shall be designed for timetable speed for both passenger
       and freight trains per Caltrain track standards and operating requirements. Except for
       approved construction windows during cut over operations, the proposed grade
       separation design shall keep all Caltrain tracks fully operational at all times and shall
       cause no interruption to train operations during construction. The construction of the
       grade separation shall not temporarily or permanently reduce the future demand on the
       Caltrain operating system and shall meet future Caltrain standards and requirements.

   6. What level of funding support needed to grade separate because of the PCEP can or
       could be expected from Ca/train?

       The Peninsula Corridor Electrification Project (PCEP) does not include any grade
       separations. As stated previously, the Business Plan will identify a long term service
       vision for the corridor and the infrastructure needed to support that service. The Plan
       will also include a strategy for funding these investments over time. It is anticipated that
       a variety of local, regional, state and federal funding sources will be needed to support
       these corridor-wide investments.

       Ill
Mayor Liz Kniss
December 18, 2018
Page 3of3

      7. The cost of maintenance for grade separation alternatives may vary greatly. What
         should the City of Polo Alto assume regarding who will pay for the cost of maintenance?

         Environmental and economic life-cycle assessments should be performed for all
         alternatives. For a traditional grade separation such as raising and/or lowering the track
         by embankment, viaduct and bridge, the City of Palo Alto may assume that Caltrain will
         take on the maintenance responsibility for such new infrastructure. However, the City of
         Palo Alto may assume it is responsible for the cost to maintain trench and/or tunnel
         alternatives as they are anticipated to be significantly more expensive to maintain.
         Additionally, a mixed operation with freight (d iesel powered locomotive) and passenger
         trains in a tunnel is not desired and requires special attention by FRA under High-Speed
         Passenger Rail Operations. Ultimately, the specific terms of a maintenance agreement
         would need to be negotiated between Caltrain and the City.

Again, thank you for these thoughtful questions. As the City continues its assessment of
potential options, please let us know if more information is needed.




Sincerely,




cc:      Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board
         Pa lo Alto City Council
Carnahan, David

From:              Neilson Buchanan <cnsbuchanan@yahoo.com>
Sent:              Tuesday, December 18, 2018 9:21 AM
To:                Supervisor Simitian
Cc:                Council, City; Dave Price; Bill Johnson; Jon Mays; dave.cortese@bos.sccgov.org; Neil Chase
Subject:           CASA Compact Centralization of power via MTC Wednesday Dec 19
Attachments:       181215 Widening Gulf of the Tech Cities WS Journal Dec 15 2015.pdf



Joe, thanks for spending study session time with Council and citizens last night. It is good to have a
solid update on so many issues. I find it amusing that MTC and CASA Compact were not on the front
burner.

I hope you will return to our Council for the sole purpose of conveying your grasp of SB50, et al. I
wonder when some type of Moses arises and leads us to a better promised land. This type of
leadership coming from "appointed, un-elected" ABAG/MTC representation now flows to super
majority legislature. The level of public awareness is subpar. Therefore, it is perilous politics and
social change.

Please lake a look at the 8 minutes youtube summary of ABAG Exec Board discussion in mid-
Nov. Comments from Greg Scharff and Dave Cortese portend a modern day Christmas Carol.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uuZwxcrPucc&feature=youtu.be


Neilson Buchanan
155 Bryant Street
Palo Alto, CA 94301oeoe,

650 329-0484
650 537-9611 cell
cnsbuchanan@yahoo.com


----- Forwarded Message -----
From: Neilson Buchanan <cnsbuchanan@yahoo.com>
To: wslocum@smcgov.org <wslocum@smcgov.org>; jbruins@losaltosca.gov <jbruins@losaltosca.gov>;
dave.cortese@bos.sccgov.org <dave.cortese@bos.sccgov.org>; aworth@cityoforinda.org <aworth@cityoforinda.org>
Cc: info@bayareametro.gov <info@bayareametro.gov>; City Council <city.council@cityofpaloalto.org>; Greg Scharff
<gregscharff@aol.com>; Jon Mays <jon@smdailyjournal.com>; Bill Johnson <bjohnson@paweekly.com>; Neil Chase
<nchase@bayareanewsgroup.com>; Dave Price <price@padailypost.com>
Sent: Tuesday, December 18, 2018, 8:46:09 AM PST
Subject: Centralization of power via MTC Wednesday Dec 19

Dear MTC Commissioners,

Everyone in California is aware of our housing crisis. It is a crisis in almost every successful city and
region in the United States. Please take time and read the attached Wall Street Journal on
December 15 It is not prescriptive. It is perspective lacking in your deliberations to date.


                                                          1
This Compact will create massive disequilibrium for lower income workers and the fragile supply of
housing they have.

There is no evidence of placing direct fiscal responsibility on the businesses creating massive
imbalance on housing and transportation infrastructure.
.
Formulation of the CASA Compact is flawed. It has not relied on the proven, but slow process of
democracy. The Compact has been driven by relentless job growth locally and in similar regions of
the United States. Economic boom in our 9-county region is extremely unusual. It may be
permanent; it may be a bubble....a big bubble. Special solutions are needed, but not at the expense
of proven principles of democracy. I personally doubt many regions will choose the solution MTC is
endorsing.

MTC-appointed committees are concentrated with biased representatives from big businesses, real
estate developers, and big cities. Hardly any of the 101 cities in the 9-county Bay Area have been
informed or engaged. Up until last week, the content and format of the CASA Compact was still
changing. The decision is being rushed forward during the holidays without adequate time for review.

The Compact sets up an adversarial model that falsely blames cities and aims to pass legislation to
punish cities for not building more housing. Punishing a city is punishing its citizens and duly elected
officials. Who has thought through the political and social ramification of your proposals to the state
legislature.

The Compact proposes a new, independent, public/private "Regional Housing Enterprise" wit/taxing
authority to annually collect and distribute $1.5B in new taxes and administer standardized zoning for
the entire area. The Regional Housing Enterprise would divert property taxes that fund basic
community services and infrastructure into a regional coffer.

Let's avoid hyperbole. "A 15-Year Emergency Policy Package to Confront the Housing Crisis in the
San Francisco Bay Area." You are recommending an unproven social experiment to eliminate local
control in order to expand corporate ownership of land and wealth as a means of generating even
more corporate profits. We have a big housing problem. You are creating a bigger crisis in our
democracy.

In conclusion, please reflect on ABAG discussion in mid-November. Dave Cortese and Gregg
Scharff recognized political perils of moving too fast and too far beyond public expectations.
Here are Cortese and Scharff concerns posted on youtube.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uuZwxcrPucc&feature=youtu.be




Neilson Buchanan
155 Bryant Street
Palo Alto, CA 94301

650 329-0484
650 537-9611 cell
cnsbuchanan@yahoo.com

                                                   2
r          812 I Saturday/Sunday, December 15 -16, 2018                             ****




    i1
    V>
    ...:Ez                         ,,
    0
     =>
                                           •
    ......,_"'
    "-



                                                      KEYWORDS I CHRISTOPHER MIMS
     America's Top Digital Citie~
            A handful of cities are .pulling away from all the rest as technology drives a widening gulf

                  Technology is cre-     for most of the divergence in pro-       Rising Fortunes                                        fices, costs and congestion be
               ating an economy in       ductivity and profits between com-                                                              damned.
               which superstar em-       panies in the U.S.                       Index of average annual wages                             Facebook's new office is lit
               ployees work for su-         As firms clu~ter around talent,       160                                                    the world's largest open-plan
  .
   1
 .-\
    ..._.
  ...          perstar firms that
          . . gather them into su-
                                         and ~ent is Yi turn drawn to those
                                         firms, the result is a self-reinforc-            I Top 2% of metros
                                                                                                                                         workspace, even though wor~
                                                                                                                                         generally hate them. Apple's 1
      :- J   • perstar cities, leading   ing trend toward ever-richer, ever-                 Bottom tf*d of metros                       HQ in California was designet
to a stark geographic concentration      costlier metro areas that are eco-                  Median metro                                the ground up to force people
                                                                                  140
of wealth unlike any seen in the         nomically dominant over the rest                                                                bump into each other and coll
past century.                            of the country. Ironically, the inter-                                                          rate. Amazon could have save
   The latest example of this is ~p­     net that many of the firms power                                                                bundle by creating an entirel:i.
ple announcing this past week a          isn't helping. While it was sup-                                                                tual "HQ2.n After all, the- mo
billion-dollar investment in a new       posed to.erase distance, it can't yet    120                                                    online-tools fo.i:Jdentifying t
campus that could ultimately ac-         replace. ~·quality face-to-face                                                                 talent work anywhere, and cai
commodate up to 15,000 employ-           communication required for rapid-                                                               spot a great coder in Arkansru
ees in a city already red hot with       fire innovation.                                                                                India.
talent (Austin, Texas). That follows        Members of the Federal lleserve,      100                                                       But even the most modern •
Amazon's recent choice to put its
two new headquarters in existing
                                         among others, have warned that
                                         the rise of geographic inequality
                                                                                  19;f;O         1'80 f'90 Jiooo ho                      munication technologies are li
                                                                                                                                         ited: They can't carry as much
                                                                                  Note: 1969 • 100. Metro rankings are determined each
superstar cities (New York and           and a deepening urban-rural divide       year of the data.                                      formation as a real-life, face·t•
Washington, D.C.).                       threaten growth in the U.S. This         Source: Brookings Institute analysis of BEA data       face collaboration. Slack, emai
   When economists talk about            has led some to declare that rural       THE WALL STREET JOURNAL.                               instant messaging are well knc
"superstar" anything, they're refer-     America is the "new inner city,"                                                                for their inability to convey to:
encing a phenomenon first de-            plagued by poverty, drugs and            the 1980s, companies like IBM,                         and the resulting crossed wire
scribed in the early 1980s. It began     "deaths of despair." Similar pat-        Digital Equipment Corp. and Apple                         The more a firm is depende
as the product of mass media and         terns of migration of wealth to cit-     used mainframes, minicomputers                         on innovation-that is, leverag
was put into overdrive by the in-        ies appear to be playing out all         and eventually PCs to make com·                        technology to be the absolute '
ternet. In an age when the reach of      over the world.                          panies-and the first technologi-                       at what it does-the more inte
everything we make is greater than          For most of the 20th century,         cally adept superstar workers-                         the collaboration of its superst
ever, members of an elite class of       this divide did not exist.               more productive. Mr. Muro calls it                     employees. Famously, Google's
bankers, chief executives, program-         "Something changed in 1980,n          the first wave of the "digitaliza-                     two "Level ll" eJ1$ineers (on a
mers, Instagram influencers and          says Mark Muro, a senior fellow          tion" of work.                                         scale ofl to 10) code by si~
just about anyone with in-demand         and director of the metropolitan            The internet was supposed to                        next to one another, staring at
technical skills have seen their in-     policy program at the Brookings          lead to a golden age of distributed                    same screen and working on a
comes grow far faster than those         Institution. "What happened was          workforces. In some ways it did:                       gle keyboard.
of the middle class.                     the introduction of the PC." He          The proportion of workers who do                          Technologists who employ b1
   In this winner-take-all economy,      adds, "Until about then, metros          their jobs remotely is now at least                    remote workers and people col-
the superstar firms-think Apple,         were becoming more like each             20% and groWing.                                       lected into an office have debat1
Google and Amazon, but also their        other. Incomes were converging,             But superstar firms continue to                     and analyzed the phenomenon <
increasingly high-tech equivalents       and industries were becoming             insist that their top-performing                       great length. Their own experie
in finance, health care and every        more distributed across place."          employees cluster in global head-                      boils down to this bon mot frorr
other industry-appear to account            From the early 1970s through          quarters or at least regional of-                      venture capitalist Marc Andrees
                                                         Attempts to turn cities outside
                                                      ?f Silicon Valley into superstar cit-
sen: There's a "huge premium to                       ies by making them tech hubs have
being 10% better at executing,"                       met with mixed success. Metro ar-
meaning that while it can be a ~                      eas succeed when they capitalize
to bring workers to a central office,                on their existing talents. One rea-
it's worth it even if it leads to an                 son Amazon chose Nashville Tenn
incremental gain in productivity.                    for a big regional office, say~ Mr. .,
    Johnathan Nightingale, former                    Muro, could be that it's already a
vice president of Firefox at Mozila,                 ~ub for medical IT and digital pa-
has pointed out that while remote                    tient records.
work can be sustainable, anything                       Using data from time-use sur~
that slows down a startup in the-                   veys conducted by the federal gov-
critical first few years can mean .I
losing to a faster competitor.  J       ,
                                        I           ernment, Mr. Muro and his col-
                                                    leagues created an index of every
Whether or not this is the case,                    metro area in the U.S., ranking
it's become such an accepted way                    them by how much workers in each
of thinking in tech that compa-                     ~e com?uters to accomplish their
nies-even big ones that only                       Jobs. This yields a measure of the
"think like a startup"-obey it as if                digitalization of every worker in-
it were a law.          ~,                          dustry and city surveyed.       '
                                                       The results include both exactly
                                                   what you would expect-Silicon
T he internet can't yet                            Valley is No. 1-and some illustra-
                                                   tive su~~~ses. Salt Lake City, home
replace the face-to-face                           to the Silicon Slopes," is No. 12 on
communication required                            the list, right behind the tech hub
                                                  of San Francisco and ahead of tech-
for rapid-irre innovation.                        ~appy Seattle. Austin, where Apple
                                                  is expanding, is No. 9 on the list.
                                                      Unlike other rankings from real-
                                                 estate prices to venture-'capital in-
                                                 vestment, the Brookings index
                                                 shows us not only which cities have
                                                 done well and become unafford-
                                                 able. It also shows which still-af-
                                                 fordabl~ ones sho~d, by the supe.i::-
                                                 star logic, do well m the future.
                                                     Not everyone agrees that tech-
                                                nolo~ ~ a Prtn:1ary driver of geo-
                                                graphic inequality. Stacy Mitchell
                                                co-director of the nonprofit Insti-'
                                                tute for Local Self-Reliance, argues
                                                that many of these trends are bet-
                                               ter explained by changes in policy
                                               which since the early 1980s have '
                                               in many distinct ways given large
                                               companies free rein to merge
                                               dominate markets, pursue go~ern­
                                               ~ent subsidies and tax breaks, and
                                               m general grow larger at the ex-
                                               pense of small, medium and local
                                              businesses.
                                                   ~'In ?articular, the 1982 merger
                                              guidelines are very specific in that
                                              the only thing that matters (when
                                              considering antitrust) is economic
                                              efficiency, which is translated into
                                              consumer welfare and low prices,"
                                             she adds.
                                                  The cities with the most start-
                                             ups and investment tend to see
                                             more business formation, but a
                                             long-term challenge lurks: If a su-
                                            pers~ city becomes too large, the
                                            ~ernce workers who aren't benefit-
                                            ing from the boom will be priced
                                            o_ut. In the end, this might limit the
                                            size of these cities-at least until
                                            many of those workers are re-
                                            placed by robots.
Carnahan, David

From:                Dan Adams <dan_adams@alumni.stanford.edu>
Sent:                Monday, December 17, 2018 8:51 AM
To:                  Council, City
Cc:                  Planning Commission; Clerk, City
Subject:             cell network equipment on poles - they should become extinct


Dear City Council Members,

I'm writing again to ask you to eliminate pole‐top cell network infrastructure by pushing the telecom companies to bury
their installations in underground vaults. Underground installations should be the only option for locating this type of
equipment in residential neighborhoods. These systems don't belong next to people's houses and above our
neighborhood sidewalks and walking paths.

My primary grievance with the pole‐mounted equipment in residential neighborhoods is the noise pollution. Within 50
feet of these poles, constant white noise is noticeable during otherwise quiet times of the day. For people who have
houses right next to these poles, they must hear this noise in their yards all the time. Within 20 feet of these poles, the
sound is loud enough to be heard inside a houses if the windows are open. It seems wrong to bring this sort of constant
noise pollution onto someone's property. On my morning walks, I walk by several of these pole‐mounted systems. When
walking toward them and as the noise starts to be audible, it sounds like a car is approaching from down the street.

I love the quiet times in our neighborhood and am lucky enough to own a home here. If the city added one of these
constant noise sources within earshot of my yard and house, I would be heartbroken at the loss of the quiet we cherish
and would be furious someone allowed this kind of infrastructure to alter the environment of my house and yard.
Airplane and car noise break the silence periodically but then quiet returns. With these systems, quiet is gone for good.

These systems are also eyesores, especially the big cans sticking up from the top of the pole, usually looking wobbly and
sloppy since they rarely seems to be lined up well with the pole. In a community which cares about aesthetics, our great
tree canopy and architecture controls and review, why would we possibly tolerate such lousy looking equipment
mounted in our neighborhoods? Would you accept one of these things mounted on the corner or side of your lot?

The telecom industry is not hurting for profit these days. Please make them pay to bury all of their infrastructure. Palo
Alto must allow the Utilities to bear his cost. The city must not make the residents bear the significant everyday
environmental burden just so the Utilities can increase their profitability.

Thanks,

Dan Adams
3550 Whitsell Ave.




                                                             1
Carnahan, David

From:                Melody Song <shanghaimelody@yahoo.com>
Sent:                Wednesday, December 12, 2018 9:30 PM
To:                  Council, City
Cc:                  Planning Commission; Lait, Jonathan; Clerk, City
Subject:             Cell Towers in Palo Alto Neighborhoods


Dear Members of City Council,

I recently learned that the Architectural Review Board, considering its first new set of cell tower applications since last
December, voted 4‐1 to require that ancillary cell tower equipment be located underground. This is the right decision,
and it is good for Palo Alto.

I strongly urge the City Council to:
1. Reverse the May 21st decision allowing Verizon to install its cheap, ugly and potentially hazardous equipment above
ground next to people’s homes; 2. Direct city staff to vigorously enforce Palo Alto’s aesthetics, noise, and other
ordinances with respect to the siting and installation of cell towers near residences; and 3. Direct city staff to stop
advising the Planning and Transportation Commission to incorporate the FCC’s aggressively pro‐telecommunications
industry order into our municipal ordinances.

Sincerely
Melody Song, a concerned Palo Alto resident




                                                              1
Carnahan, David

From:                Linda Clarke <lspclarke@gmail.com>
Sent:                Wednesday, December 12, 2018 1:51 PM
To:                  Council, City
Cc:                  Planning Commission; Lait, Jonathan; Clerk, City
Subject:             Cell Towers in Residential Areas


Dear City Council,

I am writing to implore you to reverse your May 21st decision allowing Verizon to install its ugly and potentially
hazardous equipment above ground next to people’s homes. Some of the many reasons I chose to live in Palo
Alto are the city’s aesthetics, noise ordinances and support of its residents.

It is clear that the FCC’s pro‐telecommunications industry stance does not adhere to Palo Alto’s values, so
please stop advising the Planning and Transportation Commission to incorporate the FCC’s aggressively pro‐
telecommunications‐industry October order into our municipal ordinances.

Thank You,
Linda Clarke
204 Washington Avenue
Palo Alto




                                                            1
Carnahan, David

From:                Debbie Mytels <dmytels@batnet.com>
Sent:                Wednesday, December 19, 2018 11:39 AM
To:                  Architectural Review Board
Cc:                  Council, City; Clerk, City
Subject:             Copy of letter from Anna Eshoo to FCC Commissioner
Attachments:         Blumenthal Eshoo letter to FCC re 5G safety December 2018.pdf



Dear Wynne and other members of the Architectural Review Board (Peter Baltay, David Hirsch,
Alexander Lew, and Osma Thompson),


Here is a copy of Rep. Eshoo’s letter to the FCC Commissioner, referred to in the letter I just sent
you:

Thank you again for you attention to this matter.


Sincerely,

Debbie Mytels


Debbie Mytels
2824 Louis Road. Palo Alto, CA 94303
(650) 856‐7580
dmytels@batnet.com
"Remembering the Future in our Actions Every Day"




                                                          1
                          Congress of tfJr filnttcb ii>tatcs
                                      MfosfJmrrton, D\C 20310

                                         December 3, 2018



The Honorable Brendan Carr
Commissioner
Federal Communications Commission
445 12th Street SW
Washington, DC 20554


Dear Commissioner Carr:

       We write \Vith interest regarding your recent remarks on the safety of 5G technologies
during a Senate Commerce Committee field hearing in Sioux Falls, South Dakota.

        During this hearing, the Mayor of Sioux Falls, the Honorable Paul TenHaken, asked
about '"the health ramifications of 5G and small cell deployment.'' His request as the leader of
his municipality, \Vas for ''clear direction, talking points, studies that have been done that show
that there is no harm to our constituents and to the taxpayers on putting these small cells on
to\vers close to libraries, close to schools, close to their homes."

        Speaking on behalf of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), you explained,
"Federal law actually says that state and local governments can't take [radiofrequency] concerns
into account given how much work has gone into this issue at the federal level. .. Both at the FCC
and other expe11 health agencies in Washington. they stay very much up to speed on these issues
and have reached the determination that these are safe.'"

        Most of our current regulations regarding radiofrequency safety were adopted in 1996
and have not yet been updated for next generation equipment and devices. For example, the
FCC's specific absorption rate (SAR) limits do not apply to devices operating above 6.0 GHz;
however, 5G devices will operate at frequencies as high as or even exceeding 24 GHz. The FCC
has acknowledged, ''The SAR probe calibration, measurement accuracy, tissue dielectric
parameters and other SAR measurement procedures required for testing recent generation
\Vireless devices need further examination.'' 1

        Fmihermore, the final results of the world's largest and most expensive study to date on
the link between radiofrequency radiation and cancer were only just released on November 1,
2018 by the National Toxicology Program (NTP)-an inter-agency program within the U.S.

1
  Federal Communications Commission, Office of Engineering and Technology, Laboratory Division, ''SAR
Measurement Requirements for I 00 MHz TO 6 GHz."
https://apps. fee .gov/kdb1GetAttachment.htm l0id= RUMcMDL 7fmD LsdRSsbCNoA %3 D%3 D&desc=865664 %20DO
I %20SAR%20Measurement%20I00%20MHz%20to%206%20GHz%20vO1 r04&tracking_number=28242.
Department of Health and Human Services. 2 That study, which began in 1999, is limited in scope
to radiofrequency radiation associated with 2G and 3G cell phones. As you know, this study
found evidence of cancerous heaii tumors. as well as some evidence of cancerous brain tumors,
in male rats exposed to exposed to high levels of radiofrequency radiation like that used in 2G
and 3G cell phones. However, researchers have cautioned that findings "do not apply to 4G or
5G technologies. •· 3

        To ensure we communicate accurate information to our constituents-many of whom
have concerns similar to Mayor TenHaken's-we respectfully request you provide to our offices
the 5G safety detennination from FCC and relevant health agencies that you referred to during
the field hearing. Please also include current citations for the studies informing that safety
determination. Like Mayor TenHaken, we recognize that the literature on 5G technology may be
limited "because it's so new," and are interested in acquainting ourselves with the latest studies
evaluating the health effects of high-band frequencies and modulations that would be used in 5G
networks.

        The cooperation and partnership of localities and states will be critical as we move
forward with this transformative technology, which promises wireless speeds as much as five
times faster and with much lower latency. Carriers will also need updated guidelines governing
the authorization of devices to be used with 5G. We also believe it is critical for the FCC to act
on its March 27, 2013 Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking and Inquiry to ensure all
individuals, and especially those working in close proximity to the hundreds of thousands of
small cell facilities to be deployed, are protected from any kind of excess radiofrequency
radiation. 4

       We look forward to hearing from you on this important matter. We respectfully request a
response by December 17, 2018.

                                                   Sincerely,



,??/#~~
Richard Blumenthal                                        Anna G. Eshoo
United States Senator                               '----Metriber of Congress




c William J. Broad, "Study of Cellphone Risks Finds 'Some Evidence' of Link to Cancer, at Least in Male Rats,"
New York Times (New York, New York). November I, 2018,
https:/iwww .nytimes.com/2018/ 11 10 J ihcalth1cellphone-radiation-cancer.html.
3
  National Toxicology Program, "Cell Phone Radio Frequency Radiation Studies."
llttps ://www.niehs.nih.gov/health/materials/cel ]_phone _radio frequency _radiation_studies_508. pdf.
4
  Federal Communications Commission, .. Reassessment of Federal Communications Commission Radiofrequency
Exposure Limits and Policies; Proposed Changes in the Commission's Rules Regarding Human Exposure to
Radiofrequency Electromagnetic Fields," 28 FCC Red 3498 (4), https:1/docs.fcc.gov/public/attachments/FCC- I 3-
39A 1.pdf.
Carnahan, David

From:             herb <herb_borock@hotmail.com>
Sent:             Monday, December 17, 2018 5:52 PM
To:               Council, City; Clerk, City
Subject:          December 17, 2018, 6:00 pm Council Meeting, Item #5: CAO Employment Agreements


Herb Borock
P. O. Box 632
Palo Alto, CA 94302

December 17, 2018

Palo Alto City Council
250 Hamilton Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94301


DECEMBER 17, 2018, 6:00 PM CITY COUNCIL MEETING, AGENDA ITEM #5
COUNCIL APPOINTED OFFICERS EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENTS


Dear City Council:

I have three concerns with the procedures followed by the City Council that have
resulted in the proposals for new employment agreements with the Council
Appointed Officers.

First, the agenda for the December 4, 2018, Council meeting did not abide by the
Ralph M. Brown Act requirement that the agenda include the names of the City's
labor negotiators instead of the vague statement "Agency Negotiators: Mayor and
City Council Members" that failed to disclose whether the negotiators constituted
a legislative body subject to the Brown Act's open meeting rules when the
negotiators met with the Council Appointed Officers. (The online version of the
minutes of the December 4, 2018, meeting do not accurately reflect what I
said. I will be requesting the City Clerk to correct the remarks attributed to
me.)

The omission in the December 4, 2018, agenda is important because the November
13, 2018, City Council agenda identifies the negotiators as the entire Council
Appointed Officers Committee that is a legislative body that is subject to the
open meeting provisions of the Ralph M. Brown Act when it meets with any Council
Appointed Officer.

November 13, 2018, City Council meeting agenda:
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/blobdload.aspx?t=40911.42&
BlobID=67631
December 4, 2018, City Council meeting agenda:
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/blobdload.aspx?t=62042.78&
BlobID=67813

                                                     1
Second, the employment contracts with three of the Council Appointed Officers say
that their salary adjustments are at the sole discretion of the Council which is
just the opposite of a negotiation.

When employees represented by a collective bargaining association have a contract
for a term of years, or when City Managers, for example, employed by other
municipalities have a contract for a term of years, it makes sense to have a
negotiation for the next contract.

But when the City of Palo Alto has employment agreements with its Council
Appointed Officers that have no time limit, and those agreements give the Council
the sole discretion to decide on salary adjustments, then there is no reason to
have negotiations.

Third, the proposed salary adjustments are based on past performance, but the
California Constitution prohibits the payment of bonuses for past work, and both
(1) basing future salaries on past performance and (2) giving retroactive pay
increases to employees that have been performing work with an employment contract
in place seem to be tantamount to bonuses in violation of the Constitution.

CALIFORNIA CONSTITUTION
ARTICLE IV LEGISLATIVE


SEC. 17.



The Legislature has no power to grant, or to authorize a city, county, or other public
body to grant, extra compensation or extra allowance to a public officer, public
employee, or contractor after service has been rendered or a contract has been entered
into and performed in whole or in part, or to authorize the payment of a claim against
the State or a city, county, or other public body under an agreement made without
authority of law.
(Sec. 17 added Nov. 8, 1966, by Prop. 1-a. Res.Ch. 139, 1966 1st Ex. Sess.)




ARTICLE XI LOCAL GOVERNMENT


SEC. 10.



(a) A local government body may not grant extra compensation or extra allowance to a
public officer, public employee, or contractor after service has been rendered or a
contract has been entered into and performed in whole or in part, or pay a claim under
an agreement made without authority of law.
(Sec. 10 amended June 8, 1976, by Prop. 14. Res.Ch. 5, 1976.)

                                                   2
Thank you for your consideration of these comments.


Sincerely,


Herb Borock




                                     3
Carnahan, David

From:             herb <herb_borock@hotmail.com>
Sent:             Monday, December 17, 2018 5:02 PM
To:               Council, City; Clerk, City
Subject:          Decenber 17, 2018, 6:00 pm Council Meeting, Item #2: Roth Building Park Use


Herb Borock
P. O. Box 632
Palo Alto, CA 94302

December 17, 2018

Palo Alto City Council
250 Hamilton Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94301


DECEMBER 17, 2018, 6:00 PM CITY COUNCIL MEETING, AGENDA ITEM #2
ROTH BUILDING PARK USE


Dear City Council:

Attachment A to the staff report for this agenda item (ID #9767) is a
draft Resolution that if adopted claims that the Roth Building project
"will be continually used for park purposes for a minimum of 20 years
subject to ... Charter limits on appropriations for future years ..."

The City Council cannot guarantee the use of land for park purposes by
means of adopting a Resolution.

The City Council can guarantee the use of land for park purposes only by
dedicating the land for park purposes by ordinance as required by the Palo
Alto Charter.

The Palo Alto Charter at "Article VIII. Parks" adopted as an initiative
measure by the voters in May 1965 says, "All lands owned or controlled by
the city which are or will be used for park, playground, recreation or
conservation purposes shall be dedicated for such purposes by ordinance",
and "No land ... dedicated for such purposes .. shall [have] its use be
abandoned or discontinued except pursuant to majority vote of the
electorate."

When the City of Palo Alto controls, but does not own, land dedicated for
park purposes, it can only dedicate the land for park purposes for the
period of time the City controls the land, such as the City's 51-year
lease with Stanford University for the Stanford/Palo Alto Community
Playing Fields at the corner of Page Mill Road and El Camino Real.

                                                        1
However, when the City dedicates land that it owns for park purposes, only
the electorate can remove the park dedication. The Council cannot remove
the dedication by including a term of years in the park dedication
ordinance.

I urge you to amend the draft Resolution in Attachment A to say you will
be dedicating the subject parcel for park purposes, and I urge you to
direct staff to draft the necessary park dedication ordinance, present it
to the Parks and Recreation Commission and other Boards and Commissions as
necessary for their recommendations, and then present the park dedication
ordinance to the Council for adoption.

Once the Roth Building parcel is dedicated for park purposes it can always
be removed from park dedication by a vote of the electorate.

Palo Alto as a long history of park dedicated land being removed from park
dedication, as the following summary demonstrates:

When the City Council adopted park dedication ordinances to implement the
Charter language for Parks, the leasehold for the Red Cross building was
included as park-dedicated land. In 1976 when that leasehold expired, the
voters removed the area from park dedication to permit the land to be
continued to be used for the Red Cross building.

In 1968, the voters removed additional area from park dedication for the
construction of the new multi-jurisdictional Regional Water Quality
Control Plant, and removed additional area from park dedication for a
proposed expansion of the airport.

In 1985, 3.74 acres of park-dedicated land adjacent to the golf course
driving range was removed from park dedication to exchange it for an
equal-sized parcel on Middlefield Road to permit an office building to be
built on the former park-dedicated land and to permit the City to take
ownership of the land for the Winter Lodge Ice Skating Rink and Chuck
Thompson Swim and Tennis Club.

In 2011, the voters removed 10-acres of park-dedicated land to provide the
opportunity to study the feasibility of constructing a waste-to-energy
plant there.

Therefore, if the Council dedicates the Roth Building parcel to park
purposes and that use is no longer required in the future, the voters can
remove the land from park dedication when presented with an acceptable
alternative.

Thank you for your consideration of these comments.

Sincerely,

Herb Borock


                                     2
Carnahan, David

From:                Jerry Fan <jerry.fan@gmail.com>
Sent:                Wednesday, December 19, 2018 11:21 AM
To:                  Architectural Review Board
Cc:                  Council, City; Clerk, City
Subject:             Disinformation campaign on pole-mounted ancillary


Dear Chair Furth, Vice‐Chair Baltay, Mr. Gooyer, Mr. Lew & Ms. Thompson,

I've heard from some neighbors that they've heard of a letter‐writing campaign to try and persuade the ARB that we
actually want pole‐mounted ancillary cell‐tower equipment. First of all, as one of the home owners with a pole that's on
the proposal ‐ I have not been approached to voice my opinion. It's obvious that they're trying to engineer an
overwhelming opinion so they can continue their lies to us.

Only Verizon and their partners in the telecom industry want pole‐mounted cell tower equipment b/c it's cheap. They're
claiming that the undergrounding equipment would violate the noise ordinance ‐ a quick google search will show there
are equipment using the same wireless technology that are VERY quiet & small. For reference, here's a link to the
official article + video of the equipment (https://www.ericsson.com/en/news/2016/3/swisscom‐and‐ericsson‐plant‐lte‐
small‐cells‐underground). You can also find it is you google for "swisscom and ericsson lte small cells underground".

This technology has been in existence since 2016, even if Verizon isn't at the bleeding edge of research, I'd think 2 yrs of
time would be plenty for them to catch up or at least realize better technology exists ‐ and offer that to us instead of
lying to us.

Sincerely,
Jerry Fan




                                                              1
Carnahan, David

From:             Jeanne Fleming <jfleming@metricus.net>
Sent:             Sunday, December 16, 2018 2:42 PM
To:               Council, City
Cc:               Clerk, City; Planning Commission
Subject:          Don't allow Palo Alto to be a pawn of the FCC



Dear Mayor Kniss, Vice-Mayor Filseth and Council Members DuBois, Fine, Holman, Kou, Scharff,
Tanaka and Wolbach:

I am writing to urge you to do two things.

First, please reject City Staff’s advice that Palo Alto incorporate into its ordinances elements of an
order issued by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) in October. The FCC order is
intended to strip cities of important rights with respect to city-owned property, including the right to set
the rental fee for space on city-owned poles. There is absolutely no reason for Palo Alto to voluntarily
give up these rights. (Please note that the current administration has stacked the FCC with
Commissioners who are unequivocal supporters of the telecommunications industry. For example,
Ajit Pai, the man appointed by President Trump to chair the FCC, is former Associate General
Counsel of Verizon.)

Second, as the Planning and Transportation Commission has recommended, please instead consider
joining the League of California Cities and dozens of individual cities, including New York, Los
Angeles, Portland, Seattle and San Jose, in suing the FCC with respect to its October order.

City Staff’s end-of-year rush to change Palo Alto’s ordinances to embrace the FCC’s blatantly pro-
telecom order raises many questions, among them:

   1. Why now, when major legal challenges to the FCC’s order have not yet been decided?

   2. Why now, when the California PUC—and indeed the entire State of California—is rethinking
      the wisdom of aboveground utilities in the wake of the Camp, Tubbs and Woolsey wildfires, to
      name but a few?

   3. Why now, when our Representative, Anna Eshoo, and her colleague, Senator Richard
      Blumenthal of Connecticut, are challenging the FCC’s current assertion that cell tower
      installations near people’s jobs and homes are safe?

   4. Why now, when Palo Alto’s Architectural Review Board has directed Crown Castle/Verizon to
      locate ancillary cell tower equipment underground? and

   5. Why now, when serious questions have been raised about the integrity of Palo Alto’s cell tower
      application review process in the wake of Chief Technology Officer Jonathan Reichental’s
      abrupt resignation following the revelation that he had for years been accepting lavish gifts of
      travel from the telecommunications industry?

Finally, I hope you will take note that—in advising the Planning and Transportation Commission to
recommend that you modify our municipal ordinances so as to codify the FCC’s pro-
                                                        1
telecommunications-industry order—City Staff failed to reveal that the order they were advising you
endorse is being fought by the League of California Cities, to which Palo Alto belongs. Instead, the
Planning and Transportation Commission had to learn from residents that the League, along with
dozens of individual cities, has filed a lawsuit to halt the order’s implementation.

Thank you for your consideration. Please let me know if you have any questions.

Sincerely,

Jeanne Fleming

Jeanne Fleming, PhD
JFleming@Metricus.net
650-325-5151




                                                  2
Carnahan, David

From:             Jeanne Fleming <jfleming@metricus.net>
Sent:             Wednesday, December 19, 2018 9:10 AM
To:               Architectural Review Board
Cc:               Council, City; Clerk, City
Subject:          Don't fall for the disinformation campaign



Dear Chair Furth, Vice-Chair Baltay, Mr. Gooyer, Mr. Lew & Ms. Thompson,

As you are probably aware, someone in the telecommunications industry is orchestrating a letter-
writing campaign to try to persuade the ARB that Palo Altans actually want pole-mounted ancillary
cell-tower equipment.

Palo Alto residents do not want pole-mounted ancillary cell-tower equipment. Only Verizon and their
fellow telecoms want pole-mounted cell tower equipment, because it is cheapest and easiest for
them.

The letters being sent to you claim that undergrounding ancillary equipment violates Palo Alto’s noise
ordinance. That is not true—not true unless Verizon et al choose to use cheap, noisy exhaust fans,
even though much quieter models exist. In other words, the problem isn’t noise; it’s Verizon’s
unwillingness to incur the expense of eliminating it.

These industry-orchestrated letters also claim that installing equipment underground is in itself noisy
and dusty, and therefore unacceptable. Rest assured, there is not a single resident—not one—
whose home is slated to adjoin a Verizon pole-mounted-equipment installation who wouldn’t gladly
put up with a little noise and dust while the equipment is being vaulted, rather than permanently live
next to hundreds of pounds of ugly, noisy and home-value-lowering commercial equipment.

Please note that I am not misspeaking when I say that Verizon’s pole-mounted installations will be
noisy. Verizon is well known for wanting loud backup batteries on its cell towers, and the company
has never—not once!—promised that it would not return to Palo Alto and install these batteries at a
later date. In fact, at the first Architectural Review Board meeting at which cell towers were
addressed, Verizon’s attorney, Paul Albritton, admitted that that is exactly what they did the last time
they installed cell towers in Palo Alto: they came back later and added noisy backup batteries.

Thank you for your consideration.

Sincerely,

Jeanne Fleming

Jeanne Fleming, PhD
JFleming@Metricus.net
650-325-5151

                                                         1
Carnahan, David

From:                Arlene Goetze <photowrite67@yahoo.com>
Sent:                Tuesday, December 18, 2018 11:12 AM
To:                  press_harris@harris.senate.gov; Joe Simitian
Subject:             Fluoride expert fired for public statements


Subject: Fluoride expert fired for public statements

Forwarded by Arlene Goetze,l No Toxins for Children,photowrite67@yahoo.com
From FLUORIDE ALERT .ORG

Subject: Former expert fired for public statements on fluoride

Letter to Paul Connect, director of Fluoride Alert Network
Dec. 18, 2018

  You wanted Fluoride statements from professionals opposed to water fluoridation
so I offer mine: I am a licensed chemical/environmental engineer (MSc, P.Eng.) with
45 years in my profession as an engineering consultant. I am now retired.

   In the 1970s, as a consultant for the EPA, I authored the EPA air pollution control
techniques document on the Phosphate Fertilizer industry. The document was needed by
the EPA in order for it to set federal emission limits (for fluoride). I recommended wet
scrubbers (the only real choice) and in doing so I warned them that according to my
calculations the wastewater (from the scrubbers) would have a very high fluoride content.

   My supervisor told me the water pollution experts would handle that. I had no idea at
the time how this toxic waste would be handled. Later I found out that the poison was
"beneficially recycled" into public water supplies. We know now that this was part of the
scheme to medicate citizens (usually without their knowledge) to prevent one little hole on a
tooth!

   This toxic waste was then destined to be filtered through human bodies, where 50% is
removed by the kidney, with the remainder discharged to streams and rivers through the
sewer system.
   At the time, I did know of possible health effects from doing this. (This was the same
time of the fluoride scare in the Cincinnati area due to tiny levels of fluoride compounds in
the Ohio River used for water supplies.)

  In 2012, I was fired from my last job as a contractor for the state EPA inside a local
health department for my public and published statements I made on water fluoridation on
my own time.
  You can use this for your purposes and I am extremely impressed with the work of FAN
and have been a supporter for about 10 years. Best regards.

David M. Augenstein, MSc, P.Eng. (ret)
________________________________

                                                           1
PS -- If Trendley Dean was the recognized father of fluoridation, was David the unwitting
father of the most common fluoridating chemical used today (hexafluorosilicic acid)?

   This is how Rebecca Hanmer an EPA spokesperson in 1983, described the end result of
David's recommendation:
   "By recovering by-product fluosilicic acid from fertilizer manufacturing, water and air
pollution are minimized, and water authorities have a low-cost source of fluoride available
to them.” (http://fluoridealert.org/issues/water/fluoridation-chemicals/ )
Thank you,
   Paul Connett, Ph.DDirector Fluoride Action Network




See all FAN bulletins online




                                              2
Carnahan, David

From:                Whitney Leeman <whitney.r.leeman@gmail.com>
Sent:                Wednesday, December 12, 2018 4:04 PM
To:                  Council, City
Cc:                  Planning Commission; Lait, Jonathan; Clerk, City
Subject:             Fwd: 250 Hamilton Avenue, Palo Alto


Dear Councilmembers,

I am writing to ask that you reverse your May 21st decision allowing Verizon to install its cheap, ugly and potentially
hazardous equipment aboveground next to people’s homes and businesses.

I am also requesting that you direct City Staff to vigorously enforce Palo Alto’s aesthetics, noise and other ordinances
with respect to the siting and installation of cell towers near residences and businesses.

Thirdly, I ask that you direct City Staff to stop advising the Planning and Transportation Commission to incorporate the
FCC’s aggressively pro‐telecommunications‐industry October order into its municipal ordinances.

I realize that Cities get excited about renting their infrastructure to cellular carriers, but by doing so, you are allowing
your constituents to be the subjects of human experimentation, without their consent. See the email I sent to Rebecca
Atkinson, below.

Sincerely,

Whitney Leeman

‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
From: Whitney Leeman <whitney.r.leeman@gmail.com>
Date: Wed, Dec 12, 2018 at 9:08 AM
Subject: 250 Hamilton Avenue, Palo Alto
To: <rebecca.atkinson@cityofpaloalto.org>


Dear Rebecca, I am writing to voice opposition to the AT&T sponsored small cell project proposed at 250 Hamilton,
Avenue, Palo Alto.

Despite industry claims, there are no data proving the safety of microwave/RF radiation at the density needed for
"internet of things", self driving cars, augmented reality, etc.

However, there are thousands of published papers in peer‐reviewed journals documenting negative effects of
microwave/RF radiation. For example, see the following link: https://ehtrust.org/worlds‐largest‐animal‐study‐on‐cell‐
tower‐radiation‐confirms‐cancer‐link/

There is a huge difference between "proven safety" vs. "assumed safety", "lack of data" or "lack of conclusive evidence"
on the subject of small cell towers in close proximity to humans, or nonconsensual saturation of public and private space
with microwave/RF radiation by cellular providers.

By approving this project, you are subjecting citizens of Palo Alto to nonconsensual human experimentation.


                                                              1
If the project is approved, I for one will avoid the restaurants/businesses near the 250 Hamilton Avenue site, where I
was having dinner when I saw the public notice posted. I will also inform the business owners about this project, in case
they are unaware of its potential impacts on employees and patrons.

Sincerely,

Whitney Leeman, Ph.D.
Portola Valley, CA




                                                            2
Carnahan, David

From:                Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Sent:                Wednesday, December 19, 2018 9:32 AM
To:                  dennisbalakian; David Balakian; info@superide1.com; midge@thebarretts.com; beachrides;
                     bearwithme1016@att.net; huidentalsanmateo; terry; Mayor; Mark Standriff; Mark Kreutzer;
                     esmeralda.soria@fresno.gov; paul.caprioglio; kfsndesk; newsdesk; kwalsh@kmaxtv.com; bballpod;
                     Doug Vagim; Steve Wayte; steve.hogg; pavenjitdhillon@yahoo.com; Council, City; Dan Richard;
                     Daniel Zack; popoff; mthibodeaux@electriclaboratories.com
Subject:             Fwd: New Hyundai Kona EV. Loads of comments.




‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Tue, Dec 18, 2018 at 3:14 PM
Subject: Fwd: New Hyundai Kona EV. Loads of comments.
To: Steven Feinstein <steven.feinstein@ionicmaterials.com>




‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Tue, Dec 18, 2018 at 2:24 PM
Subject: Fwd: New Hyundai Kona EV. Loads of comments.
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>




‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Tue, Dec 18, 2018 at 2:16 PM
Subject: Fwd: New Hyundai Kona EV. Loads of comments.
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>




‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Tue, Dec 18, 2018 at 1:57 PM
Subject: New Hyundai Kona EV. Loads of comments.
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>



        Tues. Dec. 18, 2018

         Steven Feinstein
                                                          1
        Ionic Materials Corp.

     Mr. Feinstein‐ Here in an article the new Hyundai Kona EV, coming in Jan.

       https://seekingalpha.com/article/4228744‐tesla‐model‐3‐gets‐formidable‐challenger‐37495‐hyundai‐kona‐ev‐
suv?li_source=LI&li_medium=liftigniter‐widget

       There are a lot of comments following this article. I just read 1/3 of them, a lot, and I learned things there, things
you won't learn from Hyundai. At this point, EVs are a rich man's game. You see the Model S and Model 3 around Palo
Alto. Two miles north in Atherton, the avg. home is $6.5 million. Maybe only $3 million in Palo Alto.

      Here is the Kona on the Hyundai website:

      https://www.hyundaiusa.com/kona‐electric/index.aspx


       MG, thousands more for an EV when gas is $2.30 US avg. and $3.20 in Calif. Not for me!. The people who buy
them all earn $500,000 as dentists etc., or a lot more. I'd buy a used Chevy Tahoe for a third the money. Endless room,
comfort, sit up high, more crash worthy. Amazing anyone buys Tesla's, but, again, the (rich) mindset on the peninsula,
etc. generates buyers. Funny what people will do once they get some real money, is it not?

     Regarding the charging issue, hilarious that there are still a bunch of different standards, requiring a trunk full of
adaptors, I would imagine. STILL! Where is industry and Congress (or the UN) to standardize chargers? Actually, I think
the answer there will be inductive charging of EVs. Drive over the coil, your car identifies itself to the system, the cost
appears on your utility bill at the end of the month, if not done at your place of employment. If they can put men on the
moon...

         See the vids by Siemens re inductive charging. I know you already have. Very interesting. Also, there is a Co. in
Virginia that makes such a system for the home. Coil on the garage floor, you drive over it, it starts charging. The Chevy
Volt could have the receiver coil installed under the front end by a Chevy dealer, they were saying. Evetran was the
Co.?? Woman running it was named Hough, pronounced Huff. That and charging coils buried in thousands of parking
lots is where we will go eventually, I think. The muddy charging cable and muddy plug, once you locate the right one, to
be used in a lightening storm, will go to the same museum as the hand crank.

       There is a blurb today that GM will fire ~50 people at its lithium battery plant in Detroit. Small wonder since the
Volt will soon be gone. I can't wait till GM teams up with Ionic Materials to make your Lithium Metal battery in quantity.
They hold more charge than lith. ion, I think the Nova show said, so there is more range. And far safer.

      What if your company became prominent in advocating for inductive charging? That system would stimulate sales
of EVs by eliminating the PITA of having to plug a car in. Fun for a while, no doubt, but I'll bet it gets old. Inductive would
eliminate the PITA factor and the compatible cable issue. Somebody, or some group, in the EV industry, should advocate
for inductive charging. It wouldn't have to be in every shopping center parking lot. Just at places of employment where
the EEs' cars could be charging while they work would be a huge help. Deduct the juice used from their paycheck, or
even provide it at a discount as a bene.

      And where do we get all of the electricity? I like thorium reactors. Keith or Ken Sorensen is the guru. Lots of vids
on YouTube. He told me that Steven Chu opposes it. DOE, etc. should ask Chu to detail why, and then work on solutions.
DOE will remember Chu. Thorium is 4X more abundant than Uranium. Vast thorium sands in Canada and western U.S.

       L. William Harding
       Fresno, Ca.


                                                               2
Carnahan, David

From:               Kelly Germa <kelly.germa@gmail.com>
Sent:               Tuesday, December 18, 2018 10:42 PM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            Fwd: Pole-mounted Cell Towers




Sent from my iPad

Begin forwarded message:

       From: Kelly Germa <kelly.germa@gmail.com>
       Date: December 18, 2018 at 10:30:26 PM EST
       To: arb@cityofpaloalto.org
       Subject: Pole‐mounted Cell Towers

       Dear ARB members,

       I am writing to you today to make it very clear that many people in Barron Park and Midtown Palo Alto
       (where I own my home) do not want pole‐mounted cell towers. We have written many letters and
       voiced this opinion in multiple ways to the ARB. Verizon has the capability and money to underground
       this equipment as is being done in municipalities across the US.

       The pole‐mounted units are unsightly and cause noise pollution. It will devalue our property and
       tranquility. Please understand that your Palo Alto constituents do not want these installed. Verizon
       keeps trying to push through their own agenda without regard to the everlasting beauty of our
       city. Please do not approve pole‐mounted cell towers in Barron Park.

       Thank you so much for listening and acting on our behalf.

       Kelly Germa
       Palo Alto homeowner
       650‐544‐5711


       Sent from my iPhone




                                                          1
                                                                                           Please Contact the Clerk’s Office
                                                                                               to View Additional Pages,
                                                                                           Attachments, or Images Related
Carnahan, David                                                                                    to this Document


From:                 Mary Anne Deierlein <maryannedeier@gmail.com>
Sent:                 Monday, December 17, 2018 5:02 PM
To:                   Council, City
Subject:              Fwd: We urge you to remove all raised rail options for S Palo Alto intersections at the council
                      meeting on Monday
Attachments:          List of Palo Alto residents who don't want any raised rail options for S PA intersections.pdf; Why No
                      Raised Rail.pdf


Dear members of the Palo Alto City Council,

Unfortunately, I'm unable to speak at the meeting this evening, but I am in agreement with Parag Patkar and the Palo
Alto Citizens group position and recommendations.
I, too, urge you to remove all raised options from consideration.

Sincerely,
Mary Anne Deierlein
318 Parkside Dr, Palo Alto, CA 94306

On Sun, Dec 16, 2018 at 12:55 AM Parag Patkar <parag@virtunetsystems.com> wrote:

 Dear Cory, Lydia, Adrian, Greg (Tanaka), Tom, Greg (Scharff), Karen, Liz, Eric, Ed, and Rob,




 First of all I appreciate you all taking the bull by the horns and moving forward aggressively to finalize grade separation
 options for the Palo Alto train-road intersections by early 2019.

 I would again like to bring to your attention that there is fierce opposition from residents in S Palo Alto to both raised rail
 options - viaduct (train on a tall structure) and hybrid (train on wall) for Charleston and Meadow intersections, that are on
 the agenda for Monday's Council meeting.




 Attached is a list of 500 residents (names and addresses) who have asked me to convey this opinion to the Council and
 City Staff.




 I am also attaching some comments on Nextdoor from folks who have lived in places where trains run on elevated
 structures.




 At the City Council meeting on Monday, we urge you to remove all raised rail options from consideration.




 Respectfully,



                                                               1
Carnahan, David

From:             Stephanie Munoz <stephanie@dslextreme.com>
Sent:             Monday, December 17, 2018 8:11 PM
To:               Council, City
Cc:               roberta.ahlquist@sjsu.edu; Ruth Chippendale; chuck jagoda
Subject:          humanty



There's nothing wrong with being rich. Rich people are some of the nicest people I know. And
there's nothing wrong with being a landlord. My husband and I were landlords, my mother and us
kids were landladies, my grandmother was a landlady in San Francisco. And tenants are not
necessarily particularly virtuous or deserving. But they do deserve to be treated as human , not as
inanimate objects. One thing you can say in favor of rent control: they always pay the rent, so they
won't lose a good deal.You can't just say to a tenant: oh you can't live here anymore--would you do
that to a dog or cat? say we don't want you anymore because you can be replaced with a better
dog?/ I don't think so..And even with rent control the landlord raises the rent. My husband always
raised the rent just a percent or two every year or, so the tenant would be conscious of market
realities.

But this situation in which the tenant is helpless to find another place to live is the doing of city
government which continuously looks forward to raising the value of the land under its
jurisdiction. About sixty years ago, the Palo Alto city government saw an opportunity to make a leap
in land value. A visionary Stanford professor, Terman, realized that Stanford land, together with
Stanford know-how, could create an industrial park without equal, if Palo Alto agreed. And they
did, They rezoned so that land which had been planned as residential expansion became
commercial; the Bayshore Freeway, which had been built to serve future industry growing toward the
Baylands, was superfluous , but an even worse error was not replacing the future homes that were to
have been built. You know how it takes a heap of livin 'to make a house a home? Well, it takes a
heap of low paid workers to made a successful enterprise, and there wasn't anyplace to put them.

I really don't think they thought about what they were doing, but it was particularly inappropriate given
Stanford's mission to educate the poor youth of California They were taking the bonanza in revenue
to improve Palo Alto schools, which were among the best in the nation, but casting off the workers'
children to be educated in Cupertino, Sunnyvale and San Jose., The superintendent of the
Cupertino School District revealed that it required the taxes from
a $43,000 unoz to edzzzucate one (1) child in school. We had four children under ten years old, and
we lived in a house which cost $17,000., and that was in olden days, before Prop 13, when assessors
were in the habit of forcing out the old settlers, starting with the conquered Mexican subjects, by
taxing according to what newcomers were willing to pay for their land.

 Another habit that has mitigated against housing for the working class is councils antipathy to
economy of scale--"crowding" if you will. Homes could be constructed with generous helpings of
recreational and garden space, approaching the FAR of less dense housing, if the councils permitted
it. Cubberly could be develped in this manner. However, there is only one cutre for the congestion
of commuters clogging our streets, and that requites going back to the original drawing board which
put homes in the Stanford foothills. The employers must put housing for their workers on their
working campuses.
Respectfully yours,
Stephanie Munoz
                                                       1
Carnahan, David

From:                   Ben Stolpa <jben@stolpa.com>
Sent:                   Wednesday, December 12, 2018 1:58 PM
To:                     Council, City
Subject:                More: PA traffic observation


> TO: PA City Council

> I live on Forest, near Center. 12/11/18, 5:54 PM, again, a line of cars on Forest, toward Center, solid from Lincoln.
Center heading toward Dana‐Hamilton‐University seems full of cars; all are inching forward or at dead stop, bumper to
bumper, same as on Forest. Today there is no rain. Several cars have chosen to turn into driveways and turn around,
heading back on Forest toward Lincoln, gunning their engines as they head back —I would assume frustrated.
>
> I am not bothering to take photos any more. I could just copy/re‐send the ones from a few days ago, of last week.
>
> Twice recently I twice had occasion to drive across Dumbarton Bridge not at peak ? commute time, but somewhere
around it, though I am not sure what the peak is any more. My observation both times was that the intersection lights
on University in East Palo Alto were set at absolutely ridiculously short intervals for green for University traffic, allowing
very few cars through at each cycle. My observation was it was thus so as to allow cars coming off the northbound 101
ramps to merge onto the University Avenue eastbound direction; i.e., a higher priority was given to the 101 traffic than
the Palo Alto University Avenue traffic.
>
> Personally, I am not going to spend any more time on this issue. The City Council has been given enough factual
information, by many, to act; if it chooses.
>
> Ben Stolpa
> jben@stolpa.com




                                                               1
Carnahan, David

From:                Arthur Keller <arthur@kellers.org>
Sent:                Friday, December 14, 2018 1:37 PM
To:                  Public Works Public Services
Cc:                  Council, City
Subject:             No Street Sweeping on Corina Way for two weeks


I live on Corina Way between Ross and Ross. There are leaves piled up that have not been collected for two weeks. I
saw the street sweeper yesterday nearby on Louis Road, during our neighborhood sweep day of Thursday. Some of our
street looks swept, but it appears to be windswept, not street sweeper swept.

Also the City website at https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/gov/depts/pwd/sweeping.asp does not have a link specific to
contact regarding Street Sweeping.

The entry on the City Directory would be placed on the Street Sweeping page:

treet Sweeping
3201 East Bayshore Road, Palo Alto, CA 94303
Phone: 650‐496‐6974
Email: pwps@cityofpaloalto.org

I think Palo Alto needs to do a better job of managing its contractors. For example, is there a GPS recorder on the street
sweepers to show where they have gone? If not, wouldn’t this be a useful measure to ascertain whether there is
compliance with the contract?

Thank you for your consideration of this matter.

Best regards,
Arthur Keller




                                                            1
Carnahan, David

From:               Carla Wray <carla.wray@gmail.com>
Sent:               Monday, December 17, 2018 10:26 PM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            #15


Please pull #15 from consent tonite, more discussion needed.

‐‐Carla Wray
PA resident

Sent from my iPhone




                                                         1
Carnahan, David

From:                  Rice, Danille
Sent:                  Wednesday, December 19, 2018 11:06 AM
To:                    jmackenzie@rpcity.com
Cc:                    sheminger@bayareametro.gov; info@bayareametro.gov; casa@bayareametro.gov; Council, City;
                       dave.cortese@bos.sccgov.org; jbruins@losaltosca.gov; Shikada, Ed; Andi Jordan
Subject:               Palo Alto Letter to MTC
Attachments:           Scanned from a Xerox Multifunction Printer.pdf


Good morning Mr. Mackenzie
Please find attached letter regarding the City of Palo Alto’s comments on commission meeting of December 19, 2018,
Item 2b.

Respectfully,
Danille


                Danille Rice | Administrative Assistant
                Office of the City Manager
                650.329.2229




                                                           1
                                                                               Ci!fof Palo Alto
                                                                               Office of the Mayor and City Council


            Via email: sheminger@bayareametro.gov ; info@bayareametro.gov; casa@bayareametro.gov

            December 19, 2018

            Jake Mackenzie, Chair and Commissioners
            Metropolitan Transportation Commission
            375 Beale Street, Suite 800
            San Francisco, CA 94105-2066

                         Re: Commission meeting of December 19, 2018, item 2b

             Dear Mr. Mackenzie and Commissioners:

            On behalf of the City of Palo Alto, I write today to t hank you for the efforts of the Committee to House
             the Bay Area (CASA), and to respectfully ask that you not vote to authorize the Chair to sign the CASA
            Compact as proposed on item 2b this afternoon. Palo Alto agrees that preserving existing affordable
             housing and increasing housing production in the Bay Area are vital regional goals. In fact, our City
             recently revised our zoning code to allow for new minimum density standards for multi-family housing,
             among several other recent housing-supportive policy changes. This change to our local ordinance
             occurred after a deliberate public process and is an example of one City acting in a manner that best
             meets the needs of its residents. It is also the type of local decision-making we believe is lacking in the
             proposed CASA Compact.

             Local land use ordinances and citywide housing planning are subject to a transparent, public process. It
             would be problematic for MTC, as an organization representing loca l governments, to advocate the
             sweeping legislative proposals embodied in the CASA Compact without clear and robust engagement
             opportunities for Bay Area communities. Members of our community can attend public meetings and
             submit written thoughts on how they would see the City proceed . Unfortunately, adhering to a CASA
             Compact, created without our City's involvement, would circumvent this public, community process.
             Additionally, the Compact does not appear to take into consideration the local land use laws of each Bay
             Area City, the plans each City has in place to meet its housing needs in the near future, or the housing
             needs of the residents in each city.

             We are also concerned with the funding mechanism of diverting property tax growth. The City of Palo
             Alto uses this funding in part for our core services; there is no mention in the Compact about the
             financial consequences for cities. Indeed, there is little mention of any of the funding specifics.

             As such, we ask that at today's Commission meeting, you not proceed with approval of the CASA
             Compact pending more inclusive engagement with the very cities the Compact will affect.




                                                                               P.O. Box 10250
                                                                               Palo Alto, CA 94303
                                                                               650.329.2477
                                                                               650.328.3631 fax

Printed with 1oy-baMd 11\U on 100~ "'cycled paper proceued wllhout chlorine.
Yours,




 r
Liz Kniss,
Mayor, Palo Alto

Cc:      Palo Alto City Council
         Steve Heminger, Executive Director
         Dave Cortese Commissioner
         Jeannie Bruins, Commissioner
         Andi Jordan, Santa Clara Cities Association Executive Director
Carnahan, David

From:              J <jtseng88@gmail.com>
Sent:              Monday, December 17, 2018 1:35 PM
To:                Howard, Adam; Council, City; ParkRec Commission
Subject:           Permanent Pickleball Courts in Palo Alto




Dear Palo Alto Parks and Recreation Commissioners and City Council Members:

The tennis courts at Mitchell Park are in terrible shape and the Parks and Recreation Commission has
earmarked funds for resurfacing the courts. We ask respectfully that the Commission and the City resurface
the courts shortly, and also install permanent pickleball courts at the time of the resurfacing. Please bear in
mind these numbers in support of our request.

* In a single year, Pickleball volunteers set up and take down nets at Mitchell Park an estimated 7,920
times (11 nets x 2 times x 360 days). Each net weighs approximately 25 pounds. The Commission and the
City rely on volunteers to heft nearly 100 tons of equipment each year. This is unsustainable.

* On a given day of pickleball play at Mitchell Park, between 30 to 80 pickleball players on average come to
the courts to play in a space that houses three tennis courts.

* The City of Palo Alto has paid $0 for pickleball nets, equipment or instruction prior to October of this year
(when two former paddleball courts were converted into pickleball courts). While the two courts in the
unlighted enclosed small space area near Tennis Court #1 is a good start, the two in that confined space do
not adequately address the needs or numbers of pickleball players.

* Private or semi-private tennis court lessons given by Whitlinger Sarsfield on the city’s public tennis courts
cost $80 to $100 per hour. Pickleball lessons given to interested beginners by seasoned players, including
award-winning USPTA ranked pickleball players, cost the public $0. Group tennis lessons offered through the
City cost on average $15 per lesson - pickleball costs $5 per lesson.

* Palo Alto Recreation classes for pickleball were continuously popular and heavily enrolled. Monica Williams
gave superb instruction to those enrolled through the City on how to play beginning or intermediate
pickleball. However, the City provided Monica with very little support. She was responsible for setting up nets
and taking down all the nets for each and every class that she taught. The result was BURNOUT — the
constant required effort placed on the teacher and volunteers went unalleviated by the City. Monica no longer
offers adult classes through the City of Palo Alto. This is a terrible loss.

* The Palo Alto Pickleball Club has offered to offset the costs of converting Court #5 into three pickleball
courts, should the costs exceed the earmarked City funds for resurfacing. That is a donation pledge likely
worth over $10,000, and is a win-win partnership between the PAPC and the City of Palo Alto.

Pickleball play at Mitchell Park is become an invaluable addition to the public park offerings of Palo Alto. As
the sport continues to grow and expand in popularity, please do not continue to require volunteers to heft the
growing load. It is time for the City of Palo Alto to step up. Please support the work of those private citizens
who have shouldered the costs and the effort for many years in order to bring this social and fun sport to Palo
Alto. The physical, emotional and mental health benefits to the community have been, are, and continue to be
immeasurable.

Thank you for your consideration.

Best regards,
                                                        1
Ben and Jocelyn Tseng
Wilkie Ct., Palo Alto




                        2
Carnahan, David

From:              Debbie Mytels <dmytels@batnet.com>
Sent:              Wednesday, December 19, 2018 11:32 AM
To:                Architectural Review Board
Cc:                Council, City; Clerk, City
Subject:           Pleae oppose pole-mounted cell phone transmitters in Barron Park



Dear Wynne and other members of the Architectural Review Board (Peter Baltay, David Hirsch,
Alexander Lew, and Osma Thompson),


Thank you for the ARB’s recent decision to require that cell phone transmitters in Old Palo Alto be
placed in underground installations. I hope that you will follow through and make a similar
recommendation for Barron Park. Pole-mounted transmitters are not appropriate for residential
neighborhoods: they are ugly, industrial-appearing equipment; they are heavy and may topple in
case of high winds or an earthquake; and they are noisy, especially when back-up batteries are
added after initial construction.

Undergrounded vaults may be more expensive for Verizon to install, but considering that it is a very
profitable mega corporation — and that Palo Alto has decided to give them a cut-rate fee for the first
11 installations planned above ground in South Palo Alto (one of which, unfortunately, is going to be
placed outside my bedroom window) — Verizon should be able to afford this cost. Residents will
certainly not mind the slightly added inconvenience during construction, knowing that their
neighborhood and homes are not going to be degraded by unslightly and dangerous pole-topped
equipment.

And while the Telecommunications Act of 1996 prohibited consideration of the health impacts of radio
frequency emissions when reviewing permit applications, recent studies finding such negative effects
are now accumulating. Our Congressmember Anna Eshoo recently joined with Connecticut Senator
Richard Blumenthal to write a letter to the head of the FCC, asking for a justification of that agency’s
position about the negtive health impacts of telecom emissions.
See https://ctmirror.org/2018/12/03/blumenthal‐wants‐fcc‐prove‐5g‐wireless‐technology‐safe/

Although large corporations are currently able to hold sway over Federal agencies, with the
technological changes over the years since 1996, it’s time for local officials to stand up to deceptive
profit-making corporations. It’s the responsibility of local governments to consider the health impact
upon residents from any such installations. Palo Alto should join with other cities to adopt the
precautionary principle and put a moratorium on pole-mounted transmitters until 5G
installations have been fully vetted for health and safety.

Sincerely,

Debbie Mytels


Debbie Mytels
2824 Louis Road. Palo Alto, CA 94303
(650) 856‐7580
dmytels@batnet.com
                                                        1
"Remembering the Future in our Actions Every Day"
Carnahan, David

From:                Chris Robell <chris_robell@yahoo.com>
Sent:                Tuesday, December 18, 2018 2:34 PM
To:                  Passmore, Walter
Cc:                  Lait, Jonathan; Council, City
Subject:             Please save 40 beautiful trees


Hi Walter,

I am saddened to hear about the planned removal and destruction of 40 trees (according to Derek) as part of the new
police building and/or CA Ave parking garage construction projects. I was shocked to see removal signs on many tall,
beautiful trees, including at least one redwood hundreds of feet high, near the corner of Park and Sherman (see pictures
below).

I personally am in favor of the new parking garage and the new police building but would have hoped (and assumed) the
city would be a model applicant and designed these buildings in such a way as to not destroy dozens of trees, many of
them protected species. Is there any way these buildings can be designed in such a way as to protect the city’s canopy?

Finally, I am wondering if residents are aware of the plans to destroy these trees. I may have missed it, but I did not
hear anything about this significant environmental impact at the most recent City Council meeting earlier this month
when the parking garage was discussed. Has there been a sufficient heads‐up to the community about this? The small
sample of people I’ve pinged were shocked when I pointed out the removal signs posted on these trees.

Please let me know your thoughts.

Thank you and Happy Holidays,

Chris Robell
Cell: 650‐245‐7395




                                                            1
2
3
4
5
                                                                                                            discussed at
City Council earlier this month.

I personally am in favor of the new parking garage and, to the extent needed for safety, the new police building, but
would have hoped/assumed the city would be a model applicant and not destroy dozens of trees, many of them
protected species. Is there any way these buildings can be designed in such a way as to protect the city’s canopy?

Thank you,

Chris Robell




                                                            6
Carnahan, David

From:             Tina Chow <chow_tina@yahoo.com>
Sent:             Wednesday, December 19, 2018 10:57 AM
To:               Architectural Review Board
Cc:               Council, City; Clerk, City
Subject:          please underground small cell tower equipment



Dear ARB members,

I am writing to re-iterate that Palo Alto residents do not want small cell towers in their neighborhoods
with heavy equipment installed above ground. Verizon is here to provide a service to our community,
and residents who live here and are faced with these towers directly in front of their homes are here
to have an active voice in the design and placement of these towers. This service is presumably for
us, and many of us are concerned about the current proposals.

Undergrounding makes sense and is feasible for all of Palo Alto, not just downtown. Verizon has the
ability to install quiet, underground equipment. It is just more expensive for them.

The inconvenience of underground installation is small compared to the ongoing issues with
equipment mounted on the pole, including:
* fire risk is increased with heavy equipment mounted on leaning poles
* neighborhood aesthetics compromised with ancillary equipment hanging off poles
* impacts for individuals with disabilities due to electro-sensitivity are greater with ancillary equipment
above ground
* increased noise(1)

Note (1): Even if Verizon says they will use quiet equipment in their initial pole-mounted installations,
there is nothing to prevent them from installing backup batteries with loud fans at a later date, as they
have done before in Palo Alto.

Thank you for your consideration.
Sincerely,
Tina Chow, PhD




                                                       1
Carnahan, David

From:                 Kimberley Wong <sheepgirl1@yahoo.com>
Sent:                 Monday, December 17, 2018 6:42 PM
To:                   Council, City
Cc:                   Keene, James
Subject:              Rail decisions


Mayor, City Council and Jim Keene,

Please consider all options for High Speed rail including trenching as well as work with other cities north and south of us
to decide what is the best overall solution to bring High Speed rail to the Peninsula.

Please do not allow special interest groups dictate what is done without evaluating what is best for entire railway
project.

More time needs to be dedicated to researching all the possibilities, especially those which will impact and increase
traffic woes on streets such as Embarcadero which already suffers from high throughout of traffic presently!

I live one block from both Alma and Embarcadero so experience this traffic on a daily basis.

Concerned and affected citizen of the Embarcadero/Alma corridors

Kimberley Wong
North Old Palo Alto




                                                             1
Carnahan, David

From:                 Gregory Deierlein <ggd@stanford.edu>
Sent:                 Monday, December 17, 2018 5:58 PM
To:                   Council, City
Subject:              Rail options in south Palo Alto: Preferred Option - TRENCJ


Dear Members of City Council,

I am unable to attend tonight’s meeting (Dec. 17, 2018), but I would like to voice support for the TRENCH option as the
best of the three alternatives, balancing the concerns of the south Palo Alto residents with rail and automotive
transportation needs and construction costs.

I have also heard mention of a proposed fourth option that would involve splitting freight and passenger trains (freight
on surface, passenger in tunnel), but the feasibility of this seems questionable. Plus, it would not eliminate grade
crossings (and midnight train whistles) of the freight trains.

Sincerely,

Greg Deierlein, PhD, PE
Professor of Civil/Structural Engineering at Stanford University

Palo Alto Resident:
318 Parkside Drive
Palo Alto, CA




                                                             1
Carnahan, David

From:                 Kim Atkinson <atkinsonkim@pacbell.net>
Sent:                 Thursday, December 13, 2018 12:58 PM
To:                   Owen, Graham
Cc:                   Council, City; Holman, Karen (external); Kniss, Liz (internal)
Subject:              Re: 670 Los Trancos private development bordering Arastradero Open Space Preserve


Hi Graham,

I appreciate your time on this. Thank you very much for going up there
  and for verifying construction compliance with the approved plans at 670 Los Trancos.

Honestly, many of us did not realize that the story poles outlined what was to be
the top of a building (nearly 10,000 square feet in size + guest house) that would be so
very visible from below, plastered onto the front of the slope, facing straight into the park.
Yikes. Its turning out to be worse than we thought.

Re your photo: zoomed in or not, this mansion is going to make hikers up there feel like they
are treading in someone's yard. We will feel a lack of our own privacy when out in nature,
and less connected with that once-beautiful sky view at the top.

 The open space feel of that park is forever spoiled by this.

 I have met hikers up there recently, shaking their heads at the construction,
  asking me if I knew what was going on.

It is disheartening. Open space is so precious to all of us, and this park is a jewel,
full of, but diminishing, wildlife.

In my opinion, the city of Palo Alto is not being guided today by the caring stewardship I knew
when I grew up here, with an eye to preserving precious open space for the community to enjoy
in perpetuity.

Once its gone, its gone forever.
       And this private estate does nothing to alleviate our housing problems here.

Kim
cc city council, mayor
            Palo Alto friends and family are bcc'd on this correspondence.


On Thursday, December 13, 2018 11:01 AM, "Owen, Graham" <Graham.Owen@CityofPaloAlto.org> wrote:


Hi Kim,

I conducted a visit to the Meadowlark trail on Friday and can confirm that the site construction is limited to the
top of the hill (certainly not at the bottom) and in accordance with the Council-approved plans. I’ve attached a
photograph that I took while I was out there showing the view. The story poles that you reference were
intended to show the outline of the house, which is still under construction. Regardless, we’ll see if they can
plant some additional trees to better screen the site.

Best,
Graham

                                                                1
From: Kim Atkinson [mailto:atkinsonkim@pacbell.net]
Sent: Thursday, December 13, 2018 10:48 AM
To: Owen, Graham
Subject: Re: 670 Los Trancos private development bordering Arastradero Open Space Preserve

Hi Graham,

  It is Thursday now. Have you had a chance to visit the 670 Los Trancos site,
to inspect for construction compliance with the original city-approved plans ?

  When the original marker flags were put up at the top of the hill in winter
2017 to alert the public to the proposed project, they were not very visible
to people, because the hiking trails up there were mostly closed due to mud
conditions. But, what we did see up there was that the flags, demarking the
proposed project, were placed at the TOP of the hill.
  Not down the side, very visible to the park, like is taking place today.
  I can supply photos to you of this, if you'd like to see them.

 I look forward to learning from you what the situation is up there.

 Thank you for your kind comment about my advocacy for the park.

In the 1960's, when I was a child growing up here, it was the city council of Palo Alto
that advocated for our parks, and created Foothills Park with great foresight
for the future. Where is this city-based advocacy today ?

Kim Atkinson


On Thursday, December 6, 2018 1:00 PM, "Owen, Graham" <Graham.Owen@CityofPaloAlto.org> wrote:


Hi Kim,


                                                              2
I wanted to let you know that I’ve received your message about the construction at 670 Los Trancos
Road. I will be conducting an inspection tomorrow or early next week to check on this, and I’ll follow-up
with my findings afterwards.

Thanks again for your advocacy for protecting the Preserve.

Best,
Graham


               Graham Owen, AICP | Planner | P&CE Department
               250 Hamilton Avenue | Palo Alto, CA 94301
               D: 650.329.2552 | E: graham.owen@cityofpaloalto.org


               Please think of the environment before printing this email – Thank you!




From: Lait, Jonathan
Sent: Wednesday, December 05, 2018 3:23 PM
To: Lait, Jonathan; Owen, Graham
Subject: FW: 670 Los Trancos private development bordering Arastradero Open Space Preserve

Forwarding from City Council mailbox.

Yolanda M. Cervantes
Planning & Community Environment
City of Palo Alto
Yolanda.cervantes@cityofpaloalto.org
650.329.2404

From: Kim Atkinson <atkinsonkim@pacbell.net>
Sent: Wednesday, December 5, 2018 10:25 AM
To: Holman, Karen (external) <kcholman@sbcglobal.net>; Council, City <city.council@cityofpaloalto.org>
Cc: Kniss, Liz (internal) <Liz.Kniss@CityofPaloAlto.org>
Subject: 670 Los Trancos private development bordering Arastradero Open Space Preserve

Hello City Council members,

  Have you had time to look into the legality or code conformation of the private development taking
place at 670 Los Trancos, above Arastradero Open Space Preserve, which is creating a severely
negative visual impact on the upper portion of our public park and trails ?

 You were sent letters and photographs inquiring about this in mid November.

  Is anyone from the city of Palo Alto monitoring this project for adherence to guidelines,
and to the agreed upon project that you approved by unanimous vote ?

  Thank you for responding, whenever convenient.

Kim Atkinson

                                                                3
4
Carnahan, David

From:               DeMarzo, Elise
Sent:               Friday, December 14, 2018 5:12 PM
To:                 Shannon Rose McEntee; Council, City; City Mgr; studio@peterwegner.com; PAC
Cc:                 leConge Ziesenhenne, Monique; O'Kane, Kristen
Subject:            RE: Proposed Art for the new Parking Garage on Sherman Avenue


Dear Ms. McEntee:

Thank you for your response, and your continued vigilance regarding environmental concerns associated with the
project. The design team has conferred with the artist and manufacturers of the proposed LED modules to confirm that
the artwork falls within the parameters of the Environmental Impact Report for the Cal Ave Garage and Public Safety
Building. The light levels will be well within city requirements preventing light pollution.

The team will continue to evaluate environmentally friendly options as we move into detailed design.

Thank you.

Sincerely,

Elise DeMarzo


From: Shannon Rose McEntee <shannonrmcentee@gmail.com>
Sent: Thursday, December 13, 2018 6:16 PM
To: DeMarzo, Elise <Elise.DeMarzo@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Council, City <city.council@cityofpaloalto.org>; City Mgr
<CityMgr@cityofpaloalto.org>; studio@peterwegner.com; PAC <pac@cityofpaloalto.org>
Subject: Re: Proposed Art for the new Parking Garage on Sherman Avenue

Dear Ms. DeMarzo,

My examples of metal sculptures (see message below) were only to point out that materials other than plastic
are more environmentally friendly and they can be marvelously diverse and thrilling. Cloud Gate is a
monumental sculpture that people walk under and around, while marveling at their reflections and the
reflections of the Chicago cityscape and the sky. While dramatic, perhaps it was a poor choice as an example
given its monumentality. I merely wanted to reference materials other than plastic.

We are discussing art to be placed on a public parking garage wall, located on a narrow street in a modest
neighborhood. Something modest would be more in line with the neighborhood's vibe. Whatever art our City
chooses for the new parking garage, its maintenance won't approach what you described for Cloud Gate ‐‐
$35,000 to $50,000 annually.

Something I didn't mention before, but an additional negative impact of the proposed three‐dimensional
plastic sculpture with LED lighting, concerns light pollution. A quick Google search can succinctly tell us:

"The inappropriate or excessive use of artificial light – known as light pollution – can have serious
environmental consequences for humans, wildlife, and our climate."

                                                           1
Thank you for listening. I realize that all art and whether it is beautiful is subjective. While we will never agree
on what is beautiful, I hope we can agree that we must protect this precious planet. We must reduce plastics,
particularly when there are so many other viable and attractive options.

Sincerely,

Shannon Rose McEntee




On Wed, Dec 12, 2018 at 2:34 PM DeMarzo, Elise <Elise.DeMarzo@cityofpaloalto.org> wrote:

 Dear Ms. McEntee:



 Thank you for your thoughtful email regarding the conceptual proposals for the artworks at the upcoming Public Safety
 Building. I do remember talking to you last Thursday at the community meeting and your expressed support for the
 suite of four artwork concepts. As we discussed at the meeting, since these are in the conceptual phase, input from the
 community is truly helpful in directing us as we get into more detailed design.



 As a parking structure, there has been a lot of discussion in Palo Alto regarding the environmental implications of
 building these structures. It is not surprising that the environmental concerns may also spill over onto the artwork
 considered for the structure. According to the artist’s consultant, the half‐life for LEDs operating at 100% illumination
 is 100,000 hours (Las Vegas lights use 80% illumination during day and 20% at night). The half‐life is not when the LEDs
 will fail, but when they may begin to fade. Wegner proposes using a fraction of the illumination to achieve the subtlety
 of color he intends, which will extend the life of the LED elements. By our quick calculations, a high annual usage for
 the LED artwork on the recessed corner of the garage (at the current scale – which may be reduced) is equivalent to 1.6
 households. We are looking more closely at the energy consumption and will do what we can to be as efficient as
 possible. Additionally, the artwork may only be running limited hours, both expanding the lifespan of the modules and
 allowing staff to set appropriate hours for the artwork based on community feedback. A detailed maintenance plan will
 be part of the fabrication and delivery agreement with the artist, and the funds for that maintenance will be set aside
 as part of the commissioning process out of the ordinance required 1% for public art budget. In other words, rather
 than commission the most artwork possible for the full 1% for art budget and further burdening our maintenance
 obligations, we are setting a large portion of those funds aside at the time of the commission to care for the works
 through their expected lifespan.



 Based on the feedback we got from the community meeting last week regarding the plastic used in one of the
 artworks, the artist has already researched sourcing recycled ABS plastic for the artwork. We discovered that in
 addition to being able to incorporate recycled ABS plastic into the piece, the entire artwork could be recycled at the
 end of its lifespan!



 All artworks, like other City assets, require regular maintenance. While I am glad to hear that we make the
 maintenance of the permanent artworks look effortless, they all require maintenance and care to prevent them falling
 into disrepair. You mentioned Cloud Gate by Anish Kapoor as an example. From what I have been able to research,
                                                             2
that $23M sculpture requires multiple hand cleanings with a solvent each day on the lower six feet, is often power
washed each night in warmer seasons, and is washed down twice a year with 40 gallons of detergent twice a year with
specialized equipment. The estimates I have seen are $35,000 ‐ $50,000 annually for maintenance of that
artwork. While we love the green wall at SFMoMA, we have discovered through our experience with the one at
Mitchell Park Library that they require a lot more maintenance than they appear to. Furthermore, the 1% for art funds
are only for the commission of artwork only. The design for the garage is complete and may incorporate an artwork, or
go back to the approved design, but there are not additional funds available to add other elements.



I applaud your vigilance in making sure that the environment is considered when we commission artwork. The
comments from the community meeting are being incorporated into the staff report and presentation materials for the
Public Art Commission meeting Thursday, December 20th at 7pm in the Community Room of City Hall. Artist Peter
Wegner will make another public presentation of the suite of concepts for the Public Art Commission prior to their
deliberation on the conceptual stage of the proposals. I encourage you to attend and/or send an email to the Public
Art Commission at PAC@cityofpaloalto.org. Feel free to contact me directly at 650.617.3517 with any questions.



All the best,

Elise DeMarzo




                Elise DeMarzo | Public Art Program Director

                1313 Newell Road | Palo Alto, CA 94303

                D: 650.617.3517 | E: elise.demarzo@cityofpaloalto.org

                www.cityofpaloalto.org/publicart

                Facebook: facebook.com/publicartpa




From: Shannon Rose McEntee <shannonrmcentee@gmail.com>
Sent: Tuesday, December 11, 2018 4:09 PM
To: DeMarzo, Elise <Elise.DeMarzo@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Council, City <city.council@cityofpaloalto.org>; City Mgr
<CityMgr@cityofpaloalto.org>
Subject: Proposed Art for the new Public Safety Building




                                                              3
Dear Elise DeMarzo, Peter Wegner (please forward a copy to Peter), City Council, and City Manager:



Thank you for sharing the initial art designs for the new parking structure and Public Safety Building planned
for Sherman Avenue in the Cal Ave neighborhood. I enjoyed hearing about your creative process,
Peter. Your research and thought processes are impressive and inspiring.



The PSB will be in my backyard as I live in Mayfield and ride my bike on Sherman and Park every day. Also, I
am an artist myself ‐‐ I have a BFA and a Master of Arts. I very much enjoy the public art in Palo Alto and I
look forward to new treasures in the future.



You asked for feedback last week at the community meeting focused on the four art pieces Peter is designing
for the PSB and the new parking garage. Hence I write with reservations concerning your concept for the
outside wall of the parking structure (I think this is where you plan to place it). The three‐dimensional
sculpture composed of LED lights gives me pause. As an environmentalist, I believe it is a mistake to create
art that requires power consumption 24 hours a day, and I'm concerned about the costs of ongoing
maintenance such an artwork would require. Such a sculpture would be expensive to run and maintain, and
it would needlessly draw on the City's resources. I also feel the massive three‐dimensionality of the piece is
unattractive. While the lighting would add interest, it also suggests that the City has energy to burn and that
is a turnoff.



I would much rather see something in metal or glass or perhaps a wall of succulents ‐‐ something that doesn't
require ongoing energy consumption and expensive maintenance. I think of Anish Kapoor's spectacular
stainless steel sculpture in Chicago's Millennium Park titled Cloud Gate, or the famous metal bull sculpture
that until recently was in front of Merrill Lynch in New York City, or the stunning outdoor wall of succulents at
SFMOMA. Some greenery would look wonderful on that wall. It would add color, texture and would plants
help fight climate change.



I hope that everyone involved in choosing Public Art for Palo Alto will factor in an analysis of the
environmental impacts. We should be conserving energy AND reducing plastics, etc. The proposed indoor
piece in the PSB lobby was described as being composed of slices of plastic. Could that same concept be
constructed from wood? I imagine it would be equally if not more beautiful if made from wood.



Everything we do in our City must take into account climate change ‐‐ everything right down to the art we
choose. Thank you for considering these points.



                                                       4
Sincerely,



Shannon Rose McEntee

410 Sheridan Avenue




                       5
Carnahan, David

From:               Bill Leikam <wcleikam@gmail.com>
Sent:               Tuesday, December 18, 2018 8:51 AM
To:                 Renzel, Emily; Engelage, Samantha
Cc:                 Pearson, Enid; Bobel, Phil; North, Karin; Council, City; Kleinhaus, Shani; Leikam, Bill
Subject:            RE: Recycled Water / Measure E site @ Monday, 17 Dec


Thank you, Emily.

Take care,
Bill

Within the seeds of philosophy, the forest of science is born. wcl - 2018




From: Emily Renzel <marshmama2@att.net>
Sent: Tuesday, 18 December, 2018 6:57 AM
To: Engelage, Samantha <Samantha.Engelage@CityofPaloAlto.org>
Cc: Enid Pearson <enidpearson1@gmail.com>; Phil Bobel <Phil.Bobel@CityofPaloAlto.org>; North, Karin
<Karin.North@cityofpaloalto.org>; City Council Council <city.council@cityofpaloalto.org>; Kleinhaus, Shani
<shani@scvas.org>; Bill Leikam Leikam <wcleikam@gmail.com>
Subject: Re: Recycled Water / Measure E site @ Monday, 17 Dec

Thanks, Samantha, for our meeting and for sending the white paper on use of the Measure E site. The paper
actually includes some incorrect information.

It says, "Immediately southwest of the existing RWQCP, the City owns a 126-acre landfill which closed in
2012. Since then the landfill was designated as Byxbee Park and includes wetlands,pedestrian and bicycle
trails, various art installations, and habitat for native species (Palo Alto,2008).”

Byxbee Park was dedicated as Park by Citizen Initiative adopted in 1964 (90% in favor) and adopted by
City Ordinance effective on January 1, 1965. (Enid Pearson led the Initiative effort.) Byxbee Park was
being used as a landfill at that time and the landfill was expected to be filled and closed in approximately
1968. Alas, it was a big revenue producer for the Refuse Fund and City, and Public Works managed to keep
it operating until 2011 — 47 years later. And the park was not opened to the public until 2012 - nearly half a
century after it was dedicated as a park. (See Charter Article VIII - Parks, and Title 22 Parks, Exhibit A-2).

Landscaped buffer. The 125’ landscaped buffer South of RWQCP was required as part of the Site and
Design Review for the RWQCP clarifier tanks built to the RWQCP fenceline in 1988, during my tenure on the
Council. RWQCP was required to provide 125’ of screen landscaping, including large trees, to shield the Park
from views of RWQCP’s industrial operation. “The required landscaping for the new secondary clarifiers
included berms (soil from the excavation for the dugout tanks) and landscape south of the plant to screen the
tanks from the Byxbee Park area. Some of the required landscaping for the Secondary Clarifiers is outside of
the RWQCP site - on adjacent parkland.” (2008 Baylands Master Plan update page 184.) A 1999 aerial photo
of the proposed project shows a virtual forest south of the clarifiers. The maximum Byxbee Park elevation in
1988 was about 36’. Now it’s closer to 90’.

Government actions are essentially a covenant with the public and should be honored. It should not
require constant vigilance by the public to make sure a covenant is enforced. These covenants should be part
of the public record and referenced by Staff in perpetuity. That way, changes in public and staff do not

                                                              1
relegate the covenants to oblivion. As our sloganeering U.S. President likes to say, “Promises made,
Promises kept.” (Just a little tongue in cheek there, but I’m sure the City of Palo Alto would like to be seen as
keeping its promises.)

Thanks for all your time yesterday.     Emily


       On Dec 17, 2018, at 3:13 PM, Engelage, Samantha <Samantha.Engelage@CityofPaloAlto.org>
       wrote:

       Hi All,

       As discussed in our meeting earlier today, attached is the Measure E Site White Paper that sought to
       summarize the background of the current approved use of the site and the legal process required to add
       or change the use designation.

       Thanks,
       Sam

        <image001.png> Samantha Engelage, P.E.
                           Senior Engineer, Environmental Services Division
                           2501 Embarcadero Way | Palo Alto, CA 94303
                           D: (650) 329‐2123
                           Samantha.Engelage@CityofPaloAlto.org


       From: North, Karin
       Sent: Monday, December 17, 2018 9:25 AM
       To: Leikam, Bill; Bobel, Phil
       Cc: Renzel, Emily; Pearson, Enid; Kleinhaus, Shani; Dailey, Karla; Engelage, Samantha
       Subject: RE: Recycled Water / Measure site @ Monday, 17 Dec

       We are meeting in the conference room

       From: Bill Leikam [mailto:wcleikam@gmail.com]
       Sent: Monday, December 17, 2018 9:24 AM
       To: Bobel, Phil
       Cc: Renzel, Emily; Pearson, Enid; Kleinhaus, Shani; North, Karin; Dailey, Karla; Engelage, Samantha
       Subject: Re: Recycled Water / Measure site @ Monday, 17 Dec

       Where is the meeting place? I am in Jamie's office.

       Bill

       On Tue, Dec 11, 2018, 2:00 AM Bobel, Phil <Phil.Bobel@cityofpaloalto.org wrote:
        It looks like 9:30 on 12/.17 can do. Bill- If you want come early I'early, I'll brief your

        PE

        On Dec 10, 2018, at 10:59 AM, Bobel, Phil <Phil.Bobel@CityofPaloAlto.org> wrote:

                 Does 9:00 on 12/17 work for others ?

                                                             2
From: Bill Leikam [mailto:wcleikam@gmail.com]
Sent: Monday, December 10, 2018 10:57 AM
To: Bobel, Phil <Phil.Bobel@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Renzel, Emily
<marshmama2@att.net>; Pearson, Enid <enidpearson1@gmail.com>; Kleinhaus, Shani
<shani@scvas.org>; Leikam, Bill <wcleikam@gmail.com>
Cc: North, Karin <Karin.North@cityofpaloalto.org>; Dailey, Karla
<Karla.Dailey@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Engelage, Samantha
<Samantha.Engelage@CityofPaloAlto.org>
Subject: RE: Recycled Water / Measure E site @ Monday, 17 December 2018

Phil:

I will have to move another meeting if we start at 10:00. Might we begin the
meeting at 9:00 AM. If so, then I can more comfortably do both meetings. In any
case, I will be there. I assume that the meeting will be an hour long? Let me
know ASAP.

Sincerely,
Bill Leikam – The Fox Guy
CEO & President,
UrbanWildlifeResearchProject.com
Nonprofit 501 C3
650 - 856 - 3041

Striving to enhance wildlife habitat and linkages so as to sustain a healthy ecosystem.
Wcl - 2017

Within the seeds of philosophy, the forest of science is born. wcl - 2018




From: Bobel, Phil <Phil.Bobel@CityofPaloAlto.org>
Sent: Monday, 10 December, 2018 9:52 AM
To: Renzel, Emily <marshmama2@att.net>; Pearson, Enid
<enidpearson1@gmail.com>; Kleinhaus, Shani <shani@scvas.org>; Leikam, Bill
<wcleikam@gmail.com>
Cc: North, Karin <Karin.North@cityofpaloalto.org>; Dailey, Karla
<Karla.Dailey@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Engelage, Samantha
<Samantha.Engelage@CityofPaloAlto.org>
Subject: Recycled Water / Measure E site @ Monday, 17 December 2018

Sorry for confusion, Emily ‐ that was an earlier note – In any event, I’ll find a new
date ‐ the Water district wanted to tell their Board before we talked in more detail –
but my Management would prefer we proceeded . We don’t want to appear to be
hiding something.

So….. How about Dec 17 at 10:00 at the Plant ‐ Admin Bldg ??

Phil

From: Emily Renzel [mailto:marshmama2@att.net]
Sent: Sunday, December 09, 2018 10:33 AM
To: Bobel, Phil <Phil.Bobel@CityofPaloAlto.org>

                                            3
       Cc: Pearson, Enid <enidpearson1@gmail.com>
       Subject: Re: Cancelled: Recycled Water / Measure E site @ Monday, 10 December
       2018

       Dear Phil: I’m confused. You already cancelled this meeting, but the email
       says you are trying to calendar it again. Please let me know if I’m supposed to
       do anything. Thanks. Emily


              On Dec 9, 2018, at 10:20 AM, Bobel, Phil
              <Phil.Bobel@CityofPaloAlto.org> wrote:


                "Recycled Water / Measure E site" has been
               DEC

              10cancelled

              When     Monday, 10 December 2018
                       06:00 PM to 07:00 PM
                       (GMT) Greenwich Mean Time - Dublin / Edinburgh / Lisbon / London


              Where    Plant


              Message I?m trying again to calendar this ? I ?cancelled? the earlier attempt !! I?d like to spend 20-30 min
                       picture? stuff, sort of listed below, mostly #1. I?m actually encouraged by discussions we?ve had
                       (We?ll see what Garth & others think!). The key is for us to brainstorm and outlining a way forwa
                       more water, from somewhere, if needed during the 40 year period. If we staff can come up with
                       on that , I think we can all make the rest fall in place. After that , we can dive into the Dst?s lates
                       sheet. I?ve got a meeting set up with the activist residents who led the Measure E efforts, includ
                       course. I?m setting up a separate meeting with likely opponents ? Renzel, etc. 1) PA needs to k
                       needs more water in the 40-year period, there is something that can be done, and a pathway to
                       having the ?big plant? here in PA. 3) PA sees Direct Potable as the ?End Game? in PA , and wa
                       taken to be consistent with that goal. 4) PA needs an 80 % Dst cost share on the ?small plant? T

                          This event invitation was sent from Yahoo Calendar
              <invite.ics><Mail Attachment.ics>


<Final White Paper 20171010.pdf>




                                                  4
Carnahan, David

From:                           Bjarki Valberg <Bjarki.Valberg@kopavogur.is>
Sent:                           Wednesday, December 19, 2018 3:00 AM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        Request for information and collaboration


                Dear sir or madam,

          As the environmental and planning technician of the municipal of Kopavogur (est. 35.000.‐ inhabitants) in
          Iceland we are facing the transition to sustainable transport development and the use of technology and
information to ease that transition in an innovative way.

I have been very interested in the approach and mindset of Palo Alto and the solutions implemented and strategy
approach to induction of sustainable transportation and data gathering and utilization. We are currently structuring our
transportation policy and forming the change from vertical speed reduction measures to horizontal speed reduction
measures and speed camera system.

We are faced with similar and sometimes same problems, in different scale, to gather information regarding the
transportation system and utilization of that Information to be able to develop our current transport system to a more
sustainable transportation system.

Our request is if there could be an interest in sharing information with our municipality and open a conversation
regarding solutions, technology and mindset.

We think this might be a mutual beneficial conversation since the size of our community is the perfect test market for
larger scale induction.

Our questions are both objective; what sensors are you using to count traffic, is it fiber optic connected, and subjective;
how do you approach open data and development of open data and structuring of the open data collection and sharing.

We hope we can have an open conversations and this request finds you well.
Sincerely,

http://www.kopavogur.is

Bjarki Valberg
Skipulagsfræðingur
Umhverfisfulltrúi
Umhverfissvið ‐ Skipulags‐ og byggingardeild
Sími 441‐0000

Kópavogsbær | Digranesvegur 1 | 200 Kópavogur
Þessi tölvupóstur og viðhengi gæti innihaldið trúnaðarupplýsingar og/eða einkamál og er eingöngu ætlaður þeim sem hann er stílaður á.
Ef sending þessi hefur ranglega borist yður vinsamlega gætið fyllsta trúnaðar, tilkynnið sendanda og eyðileggið sendinguna eins og skylt
er skv. 47. gr. laga nr. 81/2003 um fjarskipti.

The information transmitted, including any attachment, may contain confidential and/or privileged material and is intended only for the
addressee. If you receive this in error, please keep the information confidential, contact the sender and delete the material from your
system.




                                                                                              1
Carnahan, David

From:                Tirumala Ranganath <ranguranganath@gmail.com>
Sent:                Monday, December 17, 2018 4:18 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             request to item # 15 from the consent callendar


Dear Mayor Kniss and City Council Members,

      Having gone over the deatiled request put forward by Nadia naik in regard to ulling item #15 from the consent
callendar from this evening's meeting, I fully agree with her reasoning. I would like to add my voice to Nadia's
request. Please do the needful and remover the said item, so it can be discussed publically, in more detail with resident
inputs, etc at a later date in the New Year. Thanks for listening to my request,

Regards,

Ranganath
Greater Ventura resident




                                                            1
Carnahan, David

From:                Anne Rosenthal <greategret2018@gmail.com>
Sent:                Wednesday, December 12, 2018 4:20 PM
To:                  Council, City; Planning Commission; Lait, Jonathan; Clerk, City
Subject:             Reverse Verizon Decision


To the Palo Alto City Council:


I urge you to


            1. To reverse your May 21st decision allowing Verizon to install its cheap, ugly and
            potentially hazardous, especially during earthquakes, equipment aboveground next to
            people’s homes;


            2. To direct City Staff to vigorously enforce Palo Alto’s aesthetics, noise and other
            ordinances with respect to the siting and installation of cell towers near residences; and,
            more specifically,;


            3. To direct City Staff to stop advising the Planning and Transportation Commission to
            incorporate the FCC’s aggressively pro-telecommunications-industry October order into our
            municipal ordinances.


Anne M Rosenthal
Palo Alto Resident and Voter




                                                             1
Carnahan, David

From:                  Rice, Danille
Sent:                  Tuesday, December 18, 2018 1:24 PM
To:                    camille.garibaldi@faa.gov
Cc:                    trevor_higgins@feinstein.senate.gov; Flaherty, Michelle; Keene, James; Stump, Molly;
                       Isaac_Irby@harris.senate.gov; eric.henshall@mail.house.gov; Council, City; Shikada, Ed; Flaherty,
                       Michelle; Tanner, Rachael
Subject:               SFO, Noise Compatibility Program - Part 150 Study Update
Attachments:           SFO, Noise Compatibility Program - 14 CFR Part 150 Update July 2018.pdf


Good afternoon Ms. Garibaldi,
Please find attached letter regarding the City of Palo Alto’s comments on the Noise Compatibility Program – Part 150
Study Update.

Respectfully,
Danille


                Danille Rice | Administrative Assistant
                Office of the City Manager
                650.329.2229




                                                               1
                                                                                    Cityof Palo Alto
                                                                                    Office of the Mayor and City Council

             December 17, 2018



             Ms. Camille Garibaldi
             Environmental Protection Specialist, SFO - 613
             Federal Aviation Administration
             San Francisco Airports District Office
             1000 Marina Boulevard, Suite 220
             Brisbane, Ca lifornia 94005 -1835


             RE: San Francisco International Airport, Noise Compatibility Program -14 CFR Part 150 Update July
             2018

              Dear Ms. Garibaldi,

             This commentary is provided by the City of Palo Alto, located south-southeast of the San Francisco
             International Airport (SFO), under the flight paths for most of SFO' s arrivals . The City appreciates this
             opportunity to provide input regarding the Part 150 Study Update. This letter addresses the SFO Noise
             Compatibility Program (NCP) that is currently before the FAA for review. Additionally, this letter
             comments on the Noise Exposure Maps produced by the City and County of San Francisco (San
             Francisco) and accepted by the FAA in January 2016. The Noise Exposure Maps are a critical component
             as the maps dictate the areas to be considered in the creation of the Noise Compatibility Program.

              Overall, our overriding concern is t he exclusion of Palo Alto from the geographic scope of the Noise
              Exposure Maps and thus the exclusion of Palo Alto from consideration in the Noise Compatibility
              Program Update. Palo Alto has become the recipients of SFO's additional noise, overflight, and other
              environmental impacts without consideration in the Part 150 Study (Consultation and Public
              Involvement, §1.6, Table 1-1, Page 1-7).

              We also find that both the Noise Compatibility Program and the Noise Exposure Maps fail to take into
              consideration the Northern California Optimization of the Airspace and Procedures in the Metroplex
              (NorCal OAPM). The NorCal OAPM and the national Next Generation Air Transportation System
              initiative {NextGen) have resulted in more air traffic passing over Palo Alto en route to SFO. San
              Francisco's Part 150 Update purports to reflect changes since 2014 in Noise Exposure Maps and related
              data, yet the Update does not even address the NorCal OAPM. The Update is also incomplete because it
              fails to include Palo Alto and its neighbors as part of the Study.

              In addition to these overarching comments, we provide specific comments focused on the Noise
              Compatibility Program Update as well as the Noise Exposure Maps.

              Comments Regarding the "Purpose" Section of the of the 14 CFR Part 150 Update Noise Compatibility
              Program

             The City of Palo Alto finds the following deficiencies in the Study:

                     •     The Study does not address or meet the goals of NextGen as mandated by Congress.


                                                                                    P.O. Box 10250
                                                                                    Palo Alto, CA 94303
                                                                                    650.329.2477
                                                                                    650.328.3631 fax

Printed with soy· b.sed inks on 10011. '""Yd•d P•P"-' proce•secl without <hlorin"
    Congress mandated that NextGen, "take into consideration, to the greatest extent practicable,
    design of airport approach and departure flight tracks to reduce the exposure of no ise and
    emissions pollution on affected residents" (per the "VISON 100-Century of Aviation
    Reauthorization Act of 2003" ). Congress also issued a number of NextGen-related mandates in
    the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018, Pub. l. 115-254, including sections 175, 176, 178, and 179.
    We believe that it would be appropriate for the NCP to address the applicability of these and
    other statutory mandates and, in particular, to explain how NextGen implementation
    imperatives could affect San Francisco's ability to implement proposed NCP measures. In
    addition, sections 187 and 188 of that statute mandate studies relevant to noise mitigation and
    analysis under Part 150. The NCP should incorporate the mandates from those statutory
    provisions as well.

    This "Purpose" section fails to discuss any effort to reduce noise, emissions, or other
    environmental impacts produced by the Metroplex and Air Traffic. This demonstrates that the
    Part 150 Study does not meet the goals established by Congress.


•   The Study fails to account for the drastic changes of the Norco/ Metroplex OAPM that were
    deployed starting in 2015. These changes included a redesign of the Class B airspace and the
    introduction of OPD arrival procedures. In fact, the environmental ramifications of the Nor Cal
    Metroplex (OAPM) were entirely omitted from this document.

•   The Study is based on the old /NM noise modeling tool instead of the AEDTtoo/.

    The FAA has mandated the use of AEDT since March 2012 .The 2014 NEM was prepared after
    2012 and was based on 2013 data. Since the initial AEDT release, the noise modeling capabilities
    have drastically improved (especially compared to the previous INM capabilities) . It is unclear
    why San Francisco chose not to use the AEDT tool in preparation of the NEM northe NCP. The
    NCP should analyze the differences, if any, that would result if the currently mandated model
    had appropriately been used.



•   The Study is based on underestimated forecast ofSFO operations. See comparison table below.
    In 2017, SFO already exceeded the 2019 forecast by 7,643 operations.

    The forecast in the Purpose section covers a period of 2014 through 2019. This is no longer
    appropriately considered as a forecast period, but instead a validation of historical fact. The
    only forecast information is for next year and four days of 2018. The Part 150 update projects
    that SFO air traffic will continue to grow "at an average rate of 2.0 percent annually over the
    forecast period, increasing from an estimated 421,400 operations in 2013 to 625,620 operations
    in 2033 11 (seep. 1-5, table 1.2). It is unfair for the FAA to increase operations, knowing that this
    increased traffic will fly over Peninsula communities such as Pa lo Alto and increase noise in
    those communities, while excluding these communities from the Part 150 Update and
    associated abatement and mitigation measures.

    If the NCP is to be an effective noise mitigation and compatibility tool, it should examine several
    years in the future - not just one year. We recognize that the NEM was submitted in 2016 but
    the agency should require that the sponsor revalidate the 2016 maps and propose NCP
    measures for the five-year period beginning 2019 (or at the very least, 2018).
Comments Regarding Mitigation Measures Identified in Chapter 3 of the Part 150 Study

   •    3.2.4.2 Modify Arrival Profiles/Procedures - The study dismisses changes to arrival procedures
        because the limited 65 CNEL study area is within the /LS approaches where 3-degree approaches
        have been standardized.

        There is a discussion of an experimental continuous descent approach (CDA), now termed
        optimized profile descent (OPD). This concept has been around for more than twenty years, but
        is applied to descending aircraft entering the Metroplex and not to aircraft on the ILS approach,
        as all aircraft are in the study area.

        OPD approaches are recommended for aircraft approaching the outer waypoint on the ILS
        {beyond the study area of the report). This would provide significant noise relief to South Bay
        residents and should be a part of an organized and well-run Metroplex.

   •    3.2.4.3 Restrict the number or time of day of aircraft operations - This recommendation is
        important and should be implemented.

        Currently, too many aircraft arrive within a short period of time in the afternoons and must be
        radar vectored over Palo Alto and other local communities awaiting a slot for final approach to
        SFO. This results from poor ATC planning by the FAA and should be incorporated with OPD
        approaches to minimize noise, save fuel, minimize arrival delays, and reduce air pollution.

   •    3.2.6 Management Measures
            o 3.2.6.1 Implement noise abatement office for monitoring, reporting, and responding to
               aircraft noise. We recommend this measure to include areas out to the 45 CNEL contour
               boundary.

            o   3.2.6.2 Record or Track Noise Complaints. We recommend this measure to include areas
                out to the 45 CNEL contour boundary.



Comments Regarding Noise Exposure Maps (NEM) (Part 150, Subpart B)

    •   2019 Noise Exposure Map {August 13, 2015) does not display f)NI: CNEL noise exposure contours
        below 65 dBA.

        In developing its noise exposure maps, the Part 150 Update utilizes an outdated metric: CNEL
        65 dB and higher (see §1.5, exhs. 1.2, 1.3). This measure ignores low-frequency noise that
        nonetheless is palpable and fails to reflect the adverse effect on populations newly experiencing
        more frequent over-flights, at regular intervals, concentrated in narrow corridors. Section 188 of
        the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018 directs the FAA to "evaluate alternative metrics to the
        current average day-night level standard, such as the use of actual noise sampling and other
        methods, to address community airplane noise concerns." San Francisco should provide
        leadership on this issue.

    •   /NM Arrival and Departure Flight Tracks for Runway's Oll I 01R appear to have been cropped,
        built solely on Instruments Procedures.
       This oversight fails to fully disclose low altitude radar vectoring to final approaches, or early
       turns on departures, consistently directed by NorCal TRACON (FAA NCT). Full disclosure would
       have shown their environmental effect near surrounding cities such as Brisbane and South San
       Francisco, and the full Peninsula. This operational short-cut has been noted in two
       Congressional Subcommittee hearings (the Nor Cal Class B Study and, most recently, San
       Francisco Short-Term Noise Monitoring Report, October 31, 2018). These reports show the
       Oakland departures being turned across the Bay and co-mingled with the SFO departures down
       the middle of the Peninsula.

   •   The /NM Arrival and Departures Maps have omitted all aircraft on radar vectors.

   •   The INM Arrival and Departure Maps have omitted all CNEL noise contours below 65 dB.

   •   The /NM Arrival and Departure Maps did not stratify, parse, or color code tracks data by
       altitudes.



Comments Regarding the San Francisco International Airport 14 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR)
Part 150 Study Update Noise Exposure Map Report

   •   Airspace (3.6} Full disclosure, relative to the Class B Airspace change was omitted from this
       update.

   •   Air Traffic Control {3.7} The Part 150 documents fail to include any evaluation or mitigation for
       the arrival areas as they did for areas surrounding the departures.

       Nor Cal TRACON has promoted and amplified the use of navigable airspace over the City, and
       unbalanced usage as a "sort box" for the sequencing of arrival traffic to the RWYS 28 L/R at SFO
       below 5000 MSL. From the total arrival flow into SFO, following are the percentage of each:
       o BDEGA (25% SFO ARRIVALS)
       o SERFR (30% SFO ARRIVALS)
       o OCEANIC {5% SFO ARRIVALS)

       The BDEGA arrivals are split into two routes, east/ west. Of the total volume, over 70% are
       issued to the west, vectoring them over the Peninsula and the city, descending below 4000 MSL,
       with consequent noise and environmental impacts.

       The SERFR flow from the south has also caused 55% of approaching aircraft to be vectored for
       over 35 miles for sequencing to the final approach course. This is due to track compaction, poor
       traffic management (Oakland ARTCC), and Class B Airspace. This causes excessive vectored
       flights over Palo Alto.

       OCEANIC arrivals impact the peninsula and City during "nighttime" hours from unnecessarily low
       approaches over populated areas.

       During southeast weather conditions to San Jose International Airport (SJC) and northwest flow
       into SFO, an additional noise and environmental impact is incurred (amplified) by low altitude
       vectoring, of arrival aircraft to both airports.
          Per the Ad Hoc Advisory Comm ittee on South Flow Arriva ls that met in early 2018, about 50% of
          the SJC south flow arrivals are vectored over Palo Alto.

          Both the NEM and the NCP fail to assess the combined impact of aircraft traffic from and to
          multiple airports. Palo Alto experiences low altitude overflights from and to SFO, from and to
          OAK, and to SJC when in south flow mode (note also that SJC has a normal flow daily departure
          flight to Na rita that f lies over Palo Alto at about 4,000 ft without going through the SJC
          departure loop system). In addition, there are overflights from and to SQLand PAO.

      •   Standard Terminal Arrival {STAR's) and Departure Procedures (DPs) (3.8) This section fails t o
          address any procedure implemented by the Nor Cal Metroplex in the Bay area during the
          forecasted period.

      •   Instrument procedures 3.8.2 Table 3-5, is an incomplete, non-current, listing of SFO Instrument
          Approach Procedures (IAP's).

      •   Departures 3.8.3 Table 3-6, is an incomplete, non-current, listing of SFO Departure Procedures
          (DP's).

Conclusion

The City of Palo Alto appreciates this opportunity to comment and looks forw.ard to working with the
FAA toward a legally supportable environmental review and successful implementation of an
environmentally compliant and properly mitigated PART 150, Noise Compatibility Study for San
Francisco International Airport (SFO) .



Respectfully submitted,




cc:

Hon. Dianne Feinstein, U.S. Senate
Hon. Kamala D. Harris, U.S. Senate
Hon. Anna G. Eshoo, U.S. House of Representatives
Palo Alto City Council
James Keene, Palo Alto City Manager
Molly Stump, Palo Alto City Attorney
Carnahan, David

From:                Satyadev Patel <satya@almanacip.legal>
Sent:                Tuesday, December 18, 2018 11:36 AM
To:                  Atkinson, Rebecca
Cc:                  Council, City; Architectural Review Board
Subject:             Support for Wireless on Dec 20th


Dear ARB Members,

I support improved wireless coverage in Palo Alto and the items on the Dec 20th ARB Agenda as proposed with
equipment mounted on poles.

Vaulting requires violating the City's noise ordinance with fans and pumps, removing trees and landscaping and digging
up the streets which causes traffic interruptions, dust, and more noise nuisance.

Please approve.

Thanks,

Satyadev Patel
943 Oregon Ave
Palo Alto CA 94303




                                                            1
Carnahan, David

From:                Max Kapczynski <maxnkap@gmail.com>
Sent:                Tuesday, December 18, 2018 12:28 PM
To:                  Atkinson, Rebecca
Cc:                  Council, City; Architectural Review Board
Subject:             Support for Wireless on Dec 20th


Dear ARB Members,

I support improved wireless coverage in Palo Alto and the items on the Dec 20th ARB Agenda as proposed with
equipment mounted on poles.

Vaulting requires violating the City's noise ordinance with fans and pumps, removing trees and landscaping and digging
up the streets which not only increases costs, but causes traffic interruptions, dust, and more noise nuisance.

Better cell service allows residents to be more productive, be better in touch with our friends and family and creates a
safer environment where people can reach help in emergencies.

Please approve.

Thanks,
Max Kapczynski
865 Mesa Ave, Palo Alto




                                                            1
Carnahan, David

From:               Cody Goodermote <cody@goodermote.net>
Sent:               Tuesday, December 18, 2018 9:29 PM
To:                 Atkinson, Rebecca
Cc:                 Council, City; Architectural Review Board
Subject:            Support for Wireless on Dec 20th


Dear ARB Members,

I support improved wireless coverage in Palo Alto and the items on the Dec 20th ARB Agenda as proposed with
equipment mounted on polls.

Vaulting requires violating Palo Alto's noise ordinance with fans and pumps, removing trees and landscaping and
digging up the streets which causes traffic interruptions, dust, and more noise nuisance.

Palo Alto must lead the charge forward with 5G and other ultra-fast connected technologies -- we can
only do that with small cell technology due to the higher frequencies most carriers will use for 5G.
Cellular communication is CRITICAL to Palo Alto's Police and Fire Departments as well as all citizens
and visitors that might someday need to dial 911.

Help build the city of the future and stop NIBYISM. Please approve the installation of additional
cellular antenna sites in Palo Alto.

Best,
Cody M. Goodermote
(I work in Palo Alto)




                                                          1
Carnahan, David

From:                Ryan Polich <polich@gmail.com>
Sent:                Monday, December 17, 2018 11:37 AM
To:                  Atkinson, Rebecca
Cc:                  Council, City; Architectural Review Board
Subject:             Support for Wireless on Dec 20th


Hello there ARB!

I live in South of Midtown with my wife and I have appeared in front of the council around wireless issues a couple
times. I'm an accidental activist on these issues, as the quality of wireless coverage has been a real problem where I live
in Palo Alto. I broadly support improving coverage as a way to improve quality of life, specifically to improve access to
emergency services for those of us with no landline and allow me flexibility to work from home instead of commuting.

I understand there are seven items on the Dec 20th ARB Agenda ‐ I can't appear in person, but I support them
all. Bottom line is that Palo Alto needs fast, reliable service. I've seen the diagram signs around my neighborhood and
the existing pole‐mounted designs and think they look fine. Heck, THEY LOOK GREAT. It's not like they make a pole
uglier!

I sat through the entire presentation around vaulting earlier this year ‐ it seems like pushing for vaulting is an
idealistic delaying tactic, but one that will have a ton of negative impact on the neighborhood in terms of delays,
construction, etc.

Please approve the proposal!

Best,

Ryan Polich
3216 Emerson Street
Palo Alto, CA




                                                             1
Carnahan, David

From:                Maryjane Marcus <maryjane.marcus@gmail.com>
Sent:                Thursday, December 13, 2018 9:44 AM
To:                  Keene, James; Lait, Jonathan; Council, City
Cc:                  City Mgr; Stump, Molly; Shikada, Ed; Perez, Lalo; Nose, Kiely; Flaherty, Michelle; Keith, Claudia; Mora;
                     Fred Balin
Subject:             touching base - College Terrace Centre fines & hearing


Dear Jonathan, James and City Council,

Happy holidays,

I am just following up on the College Terrace Centre fines to....
1) Make sure they are still being collected and kept aside (and verifying the amount, which should $320,000 or so)
2) Check on when the use of the fines will be discussed by City Council.

I know the market is opening soon, so perhaps you will wait for the exact date to have the hearing. I believe the open
date was supposed to be 11/24 but it has not happened yet.

As you know, we desperately need to reconnect our Palo Alto neighborhoods & communities through community space
and community life so I look forward to discussing how these funds can be used. Mark Berman had requested the
money be specifically for the neighborhoods (since the Market was a community benefit as a hub, so we felt the funds
should be used for alternative community gathering options). The Council didn't want to decide in the moment but
agreed to have a special hearing for this issue.

I think this Monday is too soon for us to present options, but we have been getting input from the neighbors and will
make recommendations, hopefully when you bring this on the agenda in the New Year.

Sincerely,
Mary Jane
College Terrace, member CTRA
4152699079


‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
From: Keene, James <James.Keene@cityofpaloalto.org>
Date: Fri, Jun 22, 2018 at 11:40 AM
Subject: RE: College Terrace Centre fine ‐ be sure to earmark the funds
To: Maryjane Marcus <maryjane.marcus@gmail.com>, Lait, Jonathan <Jonathan.Lait@cityofpaloalto.org>, Council, City
<city.council@cityofpaloalto.org>, City Mgr <CityMgr@cityofpaloalto.org>
Cc: Stump, Molly <Molly.Stump@cityofpaloalto.org>, Shikada, Ed <Ed.Shikada@cityofpaloalto.org>, Perez, Lalo
<Lalo.Perez@cityofpaloalto.org>, Nose, Kiely <Kiely.Nose@cityofpaloalto.org>, Flaherty, Michelle
<Michelle.Flaherty@cityofpaloalto.org>, Keith, Claudia <Claudia.Keith@cityofpaloalto.org>


Ms. Marcus. Thanks for your email and inclusion of the Council’s motion. I can assure you that as we collect fines, we will
put them into a reserve. They cannot and will not be spent or committed in any way until we have explicit Council
direction, which will have to occur at some future Council meeting.


                                                              1
                          James Keene | City Manager
                          250 Hamilton Avenue | Palo Alto, CA 94301

                          James.Keene@CityofPaloAlto.org
                          Please think of the environment before printing this email – Thank you!




From: Maryjane Marcus [mailto:maryjane.marcus@gmail.com]
Sent: Thursday, June 21, 2018 1:38 PM
To: Lait, Jonathan <Jonathan.Lait@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Council, City <city.council@cityofpaloalto.org>; City Mgr
<CityMgr@cityofpaloalto.org>
Subject: College Terrace Centre fine ‐ be sure to earmark the funds



Dear Jonathan,



I wanted to write to you regarding the College Terrace Centre fine, which you confirmed to Ann Balini starts July 9th at
$2000/day.



I want to make sure you and Jim Keene are aware of a motion that also passed when the Ordinance was passed, and the
need to set aside and earmark the funds until you have guidance from City Council as to how it will be used.



See below the transcript from Dec 15, 2014.


                                                                  2
MINUTES 12/15/2014 116‐ 271 MOTION: Council Member Berman moved, seconded by Council Member Scharff that
any funds collected due to future violations of the grocery store be brought to Council for guidance on expenditure of
funds. Council Member Berman preferred penalty funds be utilized for the benefit of the College Terrace
neighborhood. Council Member Scharff felt expenditure of the funds should be more visible than Code Enforcement.
MOTION PASSED: 9:0



Can you please be sure the funds are earmarked until you receive this guidance?



Will you let us know when guidance from Council will be requested?




Sincerely

Mary Jane Marcus

Member, College Terrace Residents Association




                                                          3
Carnahan, David

From:               Amy Keohane <amykeohane@hotmail.com>
Sent:               Tuesday, December 18, 2018 5:41 PM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            Trees in cal ave area


Hi so someone just posted that the city is removing more mature trees one which is a heritage redwood tree. This
should not be allowed!!! You could do what Stanford does and collect them into a container to use them after the
project. The Redwood should not be removed at all. The project should work around the Redwood tree Amy

Sent from my iPhone




                                                          1
Carnahan, David

From:             Ann Protter <ann.protter@gmail.com>
Sent:             Wednesday, December 19, 2018 12:42 PM
To:               Architectural Review Board
Cc:               Council, City
Subject:          Verizon underground please




Dear Chair Furth, Vice-Chair Baltay, Mr. Gooyer, Mr. Lew & Ms. Thompson,

I am one of the many residents who would greatly prefer to have VERIZON cell phone towers be
placed UNDERGROUND.

About twenty years ago there was some talk of placing all utility lines underground. While this didn't
happen, my husband and I still talk about what a great idea that was. It probably lessens the fire
danger, certainly lessens dangers in earthquakes, and would make the city more attractive. One of
the things that makes Palo Alto stand out is the amount of trees we have. Gunking them up with
Verizon towers is a bad idea.

We also don't want the noise.

Please allow us residents to create the city we want. While Verizon may want to save money, we
want to have them place their ugly, noisy boxes underground.

Thanks,
Ann Protter




                                                    1
Carnahan, David

From:               California High-Speed Rail <news@hsr.ca.gov>
Sent:               Thursday, December 13, 2018 10:48 AM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            VIDEO RELEASE: California High-Speed Rail Program Highlights Major Accomplishments of 2018




                                        To view this email as a web page, go here.




       News Release

       December 13, 2018                                                                          Annie Parker
                                                                                           (916) 403-6931 (w)
                                                                                            (916) 203-2960 (c)
                                                                                     Annie.Parker@hsr.ca.gov




               California High-Speed Rail Program Highlights
                      Major Accomplishments of 2018
       SACRAMENTO, Calif. - The California High-Speed Rail Authority (Authority) experienced changes,
       challenges and made significant progress on the nation’s first high-speed rail program in 2018.
       Starting with the appointment and new direction provided by Chief Executive Officer Brian P. Kelly in
       early 2018, the Authority demonstrated it’s committed to advancing the high-speed rail program by
       reaching several important milestones in the areas of construction in the Central Valley, as well as
       environmental reviews and local and regional partnerships in Northern and Southern California.

       “The Authority has made significant progress on delivering high-speed rail to California in 2018, and
       we are well positioned to build on that progress going into 2019,” said Authority Board Chair Dan
       Richard. “While we have a lot more work ahead of us, and challenges remain, we have taken steps to
       put high-speed rail on solid ground moving forward, while at the same time investing in local and
       regional projects that will provide immediate and long-term benefits for the millions of Californians
       who already use these systems.”

       The end-of-year video includes several highlights such as:

              Adoption of the 2018 Business Plan
              2,000th worker dispatched in the Central Valley
              Environmental decisions in Southern California

       Watch the program highlight here:



                                                            1
                                          Click to See Video


SEE MORE AT WWW.HSR.CA.GOV
California High-Speed Rail Authority
770 L Street, Suite 620
Sacramento, CA 956814
info@hsr.ca.gov
(916) 324-1541




                        This email was sent by: California High-Speed Rail Authority
                             770 L Street Suite 620, Sacramento, CA, 95814 US

                                             Privacy Policy

                                              Unsubscribe




                                                     2
Carnahan, David

From:                Paul Minsker <minskerpaul@gmail.com>
Sent:                Wednesday, December 19, 2018 1:10 AM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Your Refusal To Address My Complaint


This is my THIRD time writing to your council, and I expect a reply to at least know if my legitimate concerns listed below
are heard, regardless of how ignored they obviously are:

The El Palo Alto Redwood tree located in El Palo Alto Park regularly has trash beneath the limbs,
often has evidence of vagabonds catching naps on the railroad side of the trunk (such as shirts,
jackets, newspapers laid out carefully, doormats, etc.), has had smoldering cigarette butts,
syringes, and open alcohol containers on this same side of the tree, has smelled often of urine
on the lower trunk from a few feet away, regularly has vagabonds hanging out around the area
waiting for people to stop by to check the plaques in front of the tree to look for "easy targets"
to panhandle towards (yes, it has happened), sits above the littered and vagabond‐infested San
Francisquito Creekbed, is regularly vandalized with carvings and pen‐marks on the dead section
of the trunk, almost died before due to governmental negligence of tree‐care responsibilities,
and is, despite being healthy, still threatened daily to meeting a demise if the soil, water, and
tree limbs and trunk are neglected as I cannot say now whether or not they are.

What is the plan for your council regarding such?

Since this tree lies on city park land, will someone please transfer my message to the Palo Alto Parks and Recreation
department?

Will the city mandate funds to have trash cans and more lights installed on the trail beside the tree to decrease litter
issues and have the park become better lit and theoretically safer at night?

Will the city spare a Palo Alto Police Patrolperson to walk the hundred feet to the Menlo Park Bridge and back to check
for vagabonds / vandals / litter / crime and deal with them accordingly?

Will SOMEONE please prove to me that the tree is on the city radar and is being monitored and cared for AND about?

OR, will this message just pass under your noses and go ignored because none of you have salaries based off of whether
or not a tree lives a protected and respected life or dies from neglect and ill environmental health.

WILL YOU HELP ME PROTECT THE TREE THAT NAMED YOUR CITY AND GAVE STANFORD AN IMAGE FOR THEIR
SYMBOLIC SEAL, OR MUST I INSTALL LIGHTS AND TRASH CANS MYSELF?!


I CARE ABOUT EL PALO ALTO. DO YOU? If so, please
respond and let me know why you care and how we

                                                             1
can ensure these problems are reduced and ideally
eventually eradicated.
‐Paul Minsker




                          2
                                                                            3465 Kenneth Drive
                                                                            Palo Alto, Ca 94303
                                                                            December 14, 2018

       Project Manager, Charleston Traffic Corridor Project
       Transportation and Planning Commission
       City Council Members
       c/o City Clerk
       City of Palo Alto
       250 Hamilton Ave
       Palo Alto, CA 94301

       Dear All:

       Summary: .
       This letter concerns two aspects of the plans for the Charleston Traffic Corridor Project.
       My opinions are given below. Details are provided on attached sheets.

           1. The proposed stop light at the intersection of Charleston and Louis

       I am strongly opposed to this. I believe it unnecessary, will be difficult to manage, will cause
       more lost time for motorists that it purports to save, and we don't need to spend the money.

          2. Changes to the traffic lanes on Charleston between Louis and San Antonio

       I believe that left tum lanes from Charleston to Fabian Way, even if only for 1 or 2 cars,
       would aid considerably in traffic flow at that intersection.

       I would appreciate your giving serious consideration to these c-0mments and suggestions.

       Sincerely,




       Carl Jones




                                                    l o;Q\ WV Bl :l30 9 \
                                                    3:J1.HO S.'>HJ31J .\llJ
                                                   V:l '011\1 Ol'9d ~O ,k.1\J
pg.1
Traffic Signal at Charleston and Louis

I have lived just north of this intersection for over 30 years and have traveled this way on my work
commute for more than half that time. I also travel that way lots of other times as well. Even though I,
too, am affected by backups on Louis Road, I do not believe that this is a pressing problem that needs to
be addressed, and certainly not by a traffic signal.

Yes, there are times in the morning and evening when left-turning traffic from Louis might wait a
minute or two. But those windows are perhaps a half-hour to an hour each. For the remaining 22-23
hours in a day, a traffic light will do more harm than good, affecting more drivers, and (I believe) likely
causing a longer total aggregate person-wait-time than without a light - i.e. more people-time will be
wasted sitting in cars idling at the stop light the rest of the day than what is 'saved' in the rush hours by
the addition of a light. It just is not seen as easily because it happens in ones and twos. But it adds up
over the whole day.

Consider the following: (the light will generally be green on Charleston and red on Louis)
   • Drivers on Louis who arrive at the intersection when a left turn could be made immediately will
      now have to wait for the light.
   • Drivers on Louis who arrive at the intersection and would only have to wait for one car will now
      have to wait for the light.
   • Drivers on Charleston who could have passed the intersection before a left tum, leaving ample
      space to tum behind them, will now have to stop.
   • Drivers on Charleston who would have driven through immediately after a left turning car will
      now have to stop even though the turning car is gone.
   • There will need to be sensors in the Louis road to trigger the light (we don't want a red light on
      Charleston if there is no car on Louis!). The sensor is highly likely to be 'tripped' by a car which
      is turning right, thus stopping cars on Charleston which need not have been stopped.

I believe these are more than enough reasons not to install a traffic signaJ.

If regardless of the above the light installation cannot be avoided, consider using a convention found in
the greater Boston area: at times of the day when red/green light control is not needed, the signal blinks
Yellow on the thru street and Red on the side street. The blinking red acts as a stop sign to the side
street and the blinking yellow alerts the thru street that a car could be turning.




 pg.6
Traffic Lane Changes on Charleston between Louis and San Antonio

Traffic going east on Charleston towards San Antonio and 101 backs up at Fabian Way. From having
lived near and traveled this intersection for 30+ years, my observation is that there are two main reasons:
    A. Traffic turning left onto northbound Fabian way which blocks the left lane on Charleston
    B. Insufficient space for cars turning left onto San Antonio which backs traffic up to and beyond the
        Fabian Way intersection.

Forty+ years ago, when all of Fabian Way was industrial/office buildings and there was significant
commuter traffic to and from that area, a dedicated right-tum lane was provided on westbound
Charleston so that cars could tum from the rightmost two lanes. I have no current data, only my
observations, but I question the need for that lane currently, given the replacement of what seems to be
50% of that area by housing and a school. But I must defer to the transportation department which I
hope has current accurate numbers.

However, assuming that an argument can be made for the removal of the dedicated right tum lane, such
action would address (B) by allowing for a dedicated center left tum lane for the entire block between
Fabian and San Antonio. This is shown in Diagram 1. One or two car-lengths could be allocated for
left turns onto southbound Fabian so as not to block lane one. It would leave a much longer and larger
capacity lane than exists now from which vehicles could turn left onto northbound San Antonio.

That lane realignment would allow addressing (A) above. The west side of the Charleston/Fabian
intersection needs to be changed to allow for a short dedicated lane for vehicles turning left onto
northbound Fabian. This in tum would ease the backup on Charleston west of the curve.
See Diagram 2.

I strongly urge the implementation of the lane configuration shown in Diagram 2. J hope that it can be
considered even if Diagram 1 is not feasible. Something needs to be done. When a car is turning left
the cars behind it try squeezing into the right lane, slowing it down. Frequently the left turning car does
not make the tum at the end of the green cycle. The whole flow on eastbound Charleston is affected.

If it is impossible to provide a tum lane, please consider some change that would allow left-turning
traffic to get out of the way quicker. Perhaps a 10+ second left-tum arrow simultaneous with the green
for east-bound Charleston traffic would work - a small price to pay for flow.

Finally, if the changes in Diagram l are not implemented, please consider the change indicated in
Diagram 3. People are constantly getting 'lost' when the right lane suddenly becomes right-tum only,
whether coming westbound on Charleston through the intersection, or turning right from San Antonio.
Cars have no warning; they have no guidance as to what to do. A simple change as shown in Diagram I
would be a big help.




 pg. 2
Diagram 1 - Center Left Turn Lane on Charleston between Fabian and San Antonio
                                                                                 r
                            ~     f1'0   IAH   v.f f\ '{ --:,




                             r                                  t
                             I
                             I
                             r                 '
                             I
                             I
                             I
                             I




pg. 3
 ~-m 2 - Left Turn Lane from Charleston onto Northbou!ld Fa~i~n Way
 r
 ..
                   I \\               .. \ .''\.
                                          .  \
                                                                        !
                                                                             ':'-'"-
                                                                            '.


                                               ~
                                                       .'       '.~ \
      ,..,..~~·~

                           'I         Z<At.                 I \
           1
         1"'\:>
                           I
                           I
                                     (ML~r
                                        ()Nif

                                      jU~
                                                            I
                                       LA~€
                                                            I t
                           -I
                                         ~                  J




                           J
                           r
                           I
                                        "
                                       2.·CAl
                                       1'\I~
                                       r..~   .,.e
                                                            f
                                                                   r
                           I
         ~                 I

        ~NJ
           ~               I
                                                            f
        ~N\\)


                                                            I
                                         ~         .
                                                            I
                           I
                           l                                I
                                                            '

pg.4
Diagram 3 - Lane Striping Change to ~xisting Charleston Lane Configuration

                         4        FA61ArJ         ...,                                                  .~ \
                                                                                                               r

                              '
                              I                               ~
                                                                                  r
                                                  I           r
                                                  I                               r
                                                  I
                                                  I
                                                          r
                                                  f
                                                                                  r
                             J                    \
                                                                                                  le·~\Pl?
                                                                      \
                                                      \                   \
                                                                                                      ~

                                                                                                  Gu'~ c:H.~
                                                                              \
                                                          \                       \               \~Tb~

                                                              \                       \            1t'+A.\J
                                                                                          \        L.At:JES
                                                                  \                           \

                                                                  \r
                                                                      I




                                                                                  -               ----


pg.5
                           courz:IL MEETI NG
 Palo Alto Counoll

  PT/I
tvuychild.01uvoice.'
                       l     j,J-    i!J<C.
                           [ ] Placed Before Meeting
                           [ ] Received at Meeting                    FACT SHEET

                                          Stanford General Use Permit (GUP)
                                         Application & Development Agreement
                                                                 Back&round

     Santa Clara County regulates Stanford land use development through a series of General Use Permits
     ("GUP"). Stanford and the county board of supervisors are currently negotiating a Development
     Agreement governing Stanford GUP development through 2035. This GUP is the single largest
     development application in the history of Santa Clara County. Five county supervisors will vote on the
     new GUP. Supervisor Joe Simitian represents our area.

     Stanford's current GUP application seeks:
         • Up to 3,150 new units/beds for students, faculty, and staff.
                  •      550 family rental units for faculty and staff (Quarry Road Development)
         • Up to 2,275,000 (2.275 million) square feet of new academic and academic support uses
         • Up to 40,000 new square feet of child care centers and facilities
                 https:I/www.sccgov.org/sites /dpd /DocsForms /Documents /SU 2018GUP App Vol 1.pdf (pp. 3.3-3.4, 3.22)

                                                 Potential Impacts on PAUSD Schools

     1. Per-student funding

     PAUSD spends approximately $19,000 per student, raised primarily from local property tax dollars.

     Stanford does not pay property taxes on its rental housing (Stanford homeowners and ground-
     lease residents pay property taxes). In addition to the Stanford proposed 550 Quarry Road family
     rental units, the county analyzed two increased housing alternatives, to remedy the county
     jobs-to-housing imbalance.

     The anticipated new PAUSD students and cost to educate the students under these three proposals:

             • 275 students - Stanford 550 new rental units on Quarry Road - no property tax revenues
               $5.3 million per year - PAUSD cost to educate these new students
             • 861 new students - County EIR Alt B. Unknown rentals v. ground-lease homes
               $16.5 million per year - PAUSD cost to educate these new students if all live in rental units
             • 1,446 new students - County BIR Alt B. Unknown rentals v ground-lease homes
               $27.8 million per year - PAUSD cost to educate these new students if all live in rental units

     2. School sites

     There is no PAUSD elementary school near the proposed Quarry Road development. Historically, when
     Stanford built housing developments, PAUSD purchased Stanford land at fair market value to build
     neighborhood schools near the new housing (Nixon and Escondido elementary schools).
                                                                         1
                                                                                                      Piia AllD COillCI

                                                                                                       P'l1I
                                    Fact Sheet Stanford General Use Permit & Development Agreement   ""')'<hllol........._.
December 5, 2018
TO: STATE, CITY AND LOCAL OFFICIALS         CITY OF PALO ALTOJ;A.
NOTICE OF PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMP~Ul!8~~f~CREASE RATES FOR
ITS CUSTOMER DATA ACCESS APPLICATION (A.18-lJ-015.)
Summary
                                                                         8 DEC I 4 AH fO: 02
On November 26, 2018, Pacific Gas and Electric Company (PG&E) filed its Customer Data Access application with the
California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC). This application is intended to make it easier and more secure for
customers to share their electric energy data with third parties. Some of these third parties include demand response,
energy efficiency and energy management providers. To accomplish this goal, the application is requesting $16.62 million
for technology enhancements to streamline the existing online platform and improve access to customers' usage data.


Background
In 2015, PG&E launched a solution for sharing energy data. Since then , the energy industry has been evolving to meet
the changing needs of customers and California's electric grid. In addition , third party providers have emerged in response
to California's policies and to developments in the state's energy environment. In order for third parties to provide their
services for PG&E's customers, accurate and timely data about customers' energy use and other relevaRt information is
required. In compliance with customer privacy laws, customers need a secure way to authorize release of their energy
data. As the industry continues to innovate, the proposals in this application will help preserve customer privacy while
making it easier for customers to share their data.


How will PG&E' s Application affect me?
Many customers receive bundled electric service from PG&E, meaning they receive electric generation, transmission and
distribution services. Based on rates currently in effect, the bill for a typical residential, bundled nonCARE customer using
500 kWh per month would increase from $113.64 to $113.72, or 0.1 percent.
Actual impacts will vary depending on energy usage.


How will PG&E's Application affect customers who buy electricity from a third party?
Direct Access and Community Choice Aggregation customers only receive electric transmission and distribution services
from PG&E. On average, these customers will see an increase of 0.1 percent.

Departing Load customers do not receive electric generation, transmission or distribution services from PG&E. However,
they are required to pay certain charges as required by law or CPUC decision. These customers will not be impacted by
this application .


How do I find out more about PG&E's proposals?
If you have questions about PG&E's filing, please contact PG&E at 1-800-743-5000. For TTY call 1-800-652-4712. Para
mas detalles llame al 1-800-660-6789 • ~11f~3&'4t 1-800-893-9555. If you would like a copy of PG&E's filing and
exhibits, please write to PG&E at the address below:
Pacific Gas and Electric Company
Customer Data Access Application (A.18-11-015)
P.O. Box 7442
San Francisco, CA 94120
A copy of PG&E's filing and exhibits is also available for review at the CPUC's Central Files office by appointment only.
For more information, contact aljcentralfilesid@cpuc.ca.gov or 1-415-703-2045. PG&E's proposal (without exhibits) is
available on the CPU C's website at www.cpuc.ca.gov.


CPUC process
This application will be assigned to an Administrative Law Judge (Judge) who will determine how to receive evidence and
other related documents necessary for the CPUC to establish a record upon which to base its decision. Evidentlary
hearings may be held where parties will present their testimony and may be subject to cross-examination by other parties.
These evidentiary hearings are open to the public, but only those who are formal parties in the case can participate.


                                                              1
After considering all proposals and evidence presented during the hearings, the assigned Judge will issue a proposed
decision which may adopt PG&E's proposal, modify it or deny it. Any of the five CPUC Commissioners may sponsor an
alternate decision. The proposed decision, and any alternate decisions, will be discussed and voted upon at a scheduled
CPUC Voting Meeting.

The California Public Advocates Office (CalPA) may review this application. CalPA is the independent consumer advocate
within the CPUC with a legislative mandate to represent investor-owned utility customers to obtain the lowest possible
rate for service consistent with reliable and safe service levels. CalPA has a multidisciplinary staff with expertise in
economics, finance, accounting and engineering. For more infonnation about CalPA, please call 1-415-703-1584, email
PublicAdvocatesOffice@cpuc.ca.gov or visit CalPA's website at www.publicadvocates.cpuc.ca.gov.


Stay informed
If you would like to follow this proceeding, or any other issue before the CPUC, you may use the CPUC's free subscription
service. Sign up at http://subscribecpuc.cpuc.ca.gov/. If you would like to learn how you can participate in the
proceeding, have informal comments about the application or have questions about the CPUC processes, you may
access the CPUC's Public Advisor Office (PAO) webpage at http:/lconsumers.cpuc.ca.gov/pao/.

You may also contact the PAO as follows:
Email: public.advisor@cpuc.ca.gov
Mail: CPUC
Public Advisor's Office
505 Van Ness Avenue
San Francisco, CA 94102
Call: 1-866-849-8390 (toll-free) or 1-415-703-2074
TTY: 1-866-836-7825 (toll-free) or 1-415-703-5282

If you are contacting the CPUC, please include the application number (Customer Data Access Application; A.18-11-015).
All comments will be circulated to the Commissioners, the assigned Judge and appropriate CPUC staff and will become
public record.




                                                           2
 PROPOSED SCHEDULE
 OCTOBER 17, 2018



                                                                          2018                        2019                                                                                                                                                 2020
Tasks                                                           Months       OCT      NOV       DEC         JAN                  FEB            MAR       APR        MAY           JUN       JUL       AUG          SEP         OCT   NOV           DEC      JAN   FEB     MAR       APR


1. PROJECT INITIATION+ MANAGEMENT
  Kickoff Meeting .
  Project Management
                                                                          *
                                                                             • •                            •                                              • • •                                       •                                                            •
2. COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT                                                   WG#l     WG#2               WG#3                    Combme<f '' ' ;            WG#5         WG#6           WG#l                WG#B                                                       WG#9
                                                                                                                                Sess1001+ i


                                                                                                                                       ..
   Working Group Meetings (9)
                                                                                                                                       ..
                                                                                                                                       . .
                                                                                                                                       ..
   Stakeholder Meetings (15)
                                                                                                                         <(            ..
                                                                                                                                       ..                         Community



                                                                                                                                                                               •                              •                                 •
                                                                                                       CbilitiilJiiity                                          Q workshop 2
  Community Workshops (2)                                                                              Workshop 1        1
                                                                                                              .          I
  Decision Maker Meetings (4)



                                                                          __
                                                                                                                         I




3. BACKGROUND CONDITIONS
  Data Collection                                         .............
  Analysis


4. ANALYSIS OF OPTIONS + DRAFT PLAN COMPONENTS
  Development of Alternatives
  Comparison of Alternatives


5. DRAFT COORDINATED AREA PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
   Preferred Plan + Program                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   •
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                               .  -_ -_
                                                                                                                                                                                      -- -_
                                                                                                                                                                                          - City                  City Review
  Coordinated Area Plan Report                                                                                                                                                 ...__    _   Review                                                                               $
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
  Financial Feasibility+ Economic Analysis + Funding Strategy                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
6. TECHNICAIJ ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
   Technical Reports                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
  Draft Environmental Document                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I

  Final Environmental Document                                                                                                                                                                                                              1City Review
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 •
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I




7. HEARINGS+ ADOPTION
   Public Hearings
   Adoption Hearing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  •               •
  Legend

  +     Community Working Group Meeting               o     Community Workshop              •   Decision Maker Meeting                                Stakeholder Meetings            +     Public Hearings                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PALO
 Notes: All milestones and dates are subject to modification.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ALTO
        Regular check-in meetings to be held with City Council throughout the process.
