                    City of Palo Alto                                              (ID # 9509)
                    City Council Staff Report

Report Type: Informational Report                 Meeting Date: 8/13/2018

Summary Title: Status Update on Airplane Noise Issues

Title: Status Update on Airplane Noise Issues

From: City Manager

Lead Department: City Manager

Executive Summary
This memo provides a status update on issues related to airplane noise.

Background
At the Council Meeting of May 7, 2018, Council Member Kou moved, seconded by Council
Member DuBois to:
direct the Mayor to regularly assign one or more Council Members to actively participate on
available community roundtables related to aircraft impacts; and direct Staff to:
A. Request temporary noise monitoring from San Francisco International Airport (SFO);
B. Provide support to Palo Alto Council Members participating on available community
roundtables related to aircraft impacts;
C. Continue to include the health impacts of aircraft noise and emissions in the City’s regional,
state and federal legislative priorities and engage with policy makers and associated advocacy
groups as appropriate;
D. Include in the above efforts Palo Alto’s support for:
        i. Improvements to SFO’s Fly Quiet Program;
        ii. Adherence to the agreement to, whenever able, increase the altitude of aircraft over
        the Peninsula;
        iii. Maximizing the use of the BDEGA East Arrival route to SFO when possible;
        iv. Collaboration with other jurisdictions to develop a regional position in support
        system-wide solutions by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA);
        v. Development of a noise-monitoring plan in concert with other jurisdictions;
        vi. Maximizing sequencing under current conditions and prioritizing the application of
        air traffic control technology to improve sequencing and aircraft management to
        minimize community impacts;
        vii. Adoption of improved metrics for airplane noise and related impacts;
        viii. Greater community engagement by the FAA, SFO and the San Jose International
        Airport (SJC);


City of Palo Alto                                                                           Page 1
E. Bring to Council as fast as possible a plan for a litigation strategy in support of procedural
changes affecting Palo Alto and investigate the best approach for filing timely lawsuits within 60
days of an appropriate new event:
        i.     Work on forming a multi-city legal alliance;
        ii.    ii. Define a process to monitor FAA flight path changes;
        iii.   iii. Evaluate retaining technical and legal expertise; and
F. Develop a system to evaluate and respond to the FAA Update on Phase Two report,
November 2017 and April 2018 and future FAA Reports.
MOTION AS AMENDED PASSED: 8-0 Scharff absent

Discussion
On May 18, 2018, the City of San José’s Ad Hoc Advisory Committee on South Flow Arrivals into
Mineta San José International Airport released its Final Report. Councilmember Lydia Kou
represented the City of Palo Alto on this committee. A copy of the final report is included with
this memo as Attachment A.

The Cities Association of Santa Clara County has proposed the creation of a Santa Clara/Santa
Cruz Airport/Community Roundtable to serve as a venue to facilitate regional collaboration
regarding aircraft noise. A resolution, bylaws and memorandum of understanding for the City of
Palo Alto to join the roundtable are scheduled for consideration by the Palo Alto City Council at
its meeting of August 13, 2018.

The staff of the SFO Aircraft Noise Abatement Office have confirmed that SFO is prepared to
partner with the City of Palo Alto on temporary noise monitoring in our area. Given Council’s
direction to staff to pursue development of a noise-monitoring plan in concert with other
jurisdictions, and given the particularly technical interests of some of Palo Alto’s citizens who
are engaged in this topic, City staff are conducting preparatory research before approaching
SFO to request an optimally informed approach to temporary noise monitoring.

The City Manager remains committed to providing support to Palo Alto Councilmembers
participating on community roundtables related to aircraft impacts. In late August, a new
Assistant to the City Manager will be joining the staff of the City Manager’s Office with a wide
portfolio of responsibilities including airplane noise.

The City of Palo Alto has continued to advocate with federal policy makers regarding the
significance of the health impacts of aircraft noise and emissions on our community. Our
legislative advocacy representatives in Washington, D.C., Van Scoyoc Associates, have been
monitoring the progress of the FAA Reauthorization bill from the U.S. House of Representatives
to the U.S. Senate and championing favorable noise provisions under consideration, including
coordinating with the National League of Cities and other local community advocates. The City
has also formally joined the National Association to Insure a Sound Controlled Environment
(N.O.I.S.E.) which advocates for reducing the impact of aviation noise on local communities.



City of Palo Alto                                                                             Page 2
With respect to developing a plan to review FAA procedural changes affecting Palo Alto and
investigating the best approach for the consideration of filing timely lawsuits, the City Attorney
has initiated discussions with the city attorneys in Santa Clara County to explore the feasibility
of forming a multi-city legal alliance. In June, City staff extended the city’s contract with Freytag
& Associates, LLC to ensure the city would have technical support resources available in
addition to those available through the City’s contract with Richards Aviation Consultants for
technical assistance regarding FAA flight path changes. In addition, the City continues to retain
the firm of Kaplan Kirsch for legal expertise. City staff will provide the City Council with a more
detailed status update on these elements in September 2018.

The City is preparing a letter to the FAA in response to its April 2018 Further Update on Phase
Two of the FAA Initiative to Address Noise Concerns of Santa Cruz/Santa Clara/San Mateo/San
Francisco Counties. City staff will produce any letters in response to future FAA Updates to the
Phase Two Report within two months of the report’s issuance.

Fiscal Impact
There is no current budget for initiatives related to airplane noise. City staff are in the process
of researching potential costs associated with tentative proposals that may be developed in the
future.
Attachments:
     Attachment A: SJC South Flow Ad Hoc Advisory Committee Final Report




City of Palo Alto                                                                              Page 3
                  ATTACHMENT A




REPORT OF THE
AD HOC ADVISORY
COMMITTEE ON
SOUTH FLOW
ARRIVALS

AD HOC
ADVISORY
May 18, 2018

COMMITTEE ON
SOUTH FLOW
ARRIVALS  1
2



    Dear Tony DiBernardo:

    With this letter, I convey to you the final report of the Ad Hoc Advisory Committee on South Flow
    Arrivals.

    These recommendations reflect the work of the fourteen-member Committee, over the course of
    eight meetings during the past six months.

    The focus of this Committee has been the south flow arrival path into the Norman Y. Mineta San José
    International Airport (SJC). During times of inclement weather, some mornings, or during frontal
    passages, the wind at SJC will blow from the south. For safety reasons, aircraft must take off and land
    into these southerly winds, requiring the airport to operate in "south flow," an alternate arrival path
    into SJC that allows aircraft to land and take off into the wind.

    During these times, aircraft have followed basic arrival and approach paths to the west of SJC over
    San José, Cupertino, Sunnyvale, Mountain View, Palo Alto and Santa Clara, before turning east to
    return to the airport. As weather changes - the airport returns to "north flow," the most common
    configuration, and Air Traffic Control begins directing aircraft to arrive over downtown San José.

    The airspace over Santa Clara County and the entire San Francisco Bay Area is one of the most
    complex airspace for the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to conduct safe flight operations.
    There are three major international airports as well as numerous smaller airports. The interactions of
    all these facilities and weather play a part in the flight procedures that are used at SJC. The focus of
    this Committee is on the procedures that are used for south flow arrivals at SJC.

    The Committee’s recommendations can succinctly be prioritized as:

          Fly more dispersed Western approach;
          Explore other approaches;
          Modify procedures to reduce the ground noise generated by aircraft;
          Implement FAA Policy Changes;
          Avoid noisy flight maneuvers;
          Implement noise management measures at SJC;
          Explore single regional noise reporting system.

    The Ad Hoc Advisory Committee reviewed and prioritized numerous noise mitigation
    recommendations (See Appendix A) and has listed the mitigations under the appropriate category.




                       Report of the Ad Hoc Advisory Committee on South Flow Arrivals
3



    Having conveyed these recommendations, we request that the FAA and SJC:

          Evaluate and report on the consequences and impact (including noise Aviation Environmental
           Design Tool (AEDT) impact assessment) of each mitigation measure in Appendix A.
          Provide a timeline for when the committee can expect documented responses
          Provide written responses documenting the FAA and SJC evaluation and conclusions on the
           feasibility of implementing what has been requested for each recommendation
          Prior to the implementation of any change, consult with the Committee/Cities Association to
           determine which appropriate recommendations to implement,
          Continue to prioritize safety of flight as its number one priority; and raise the priority of
           ground level per flight aircraft noise so that the FAA can better mitigate the impact to our
           residents

    The Committee believes timely assessment, prioritization, and implementation of the
    recommendations will provide noise mitigation to the communities experiencing the impacts of noise
    from south flow arrivals.

    Sincerely,




    Glenn Hendricks
    Mayor, Sunnyvale

    Chair, Ad Hoc Advisory Committee on South Flow Arrivals




                       Report of the Ad Hoc Advisory Committee on South Flow Arrivals
4




    Table of Contents
    Acknowledgements .................................................................................................................................. 5

    Background ............................................................................................................................................... 6

        What Are South Flow Operations? ...................................................................................................... 6

        South Flow and the NorCal Metroplex ................................................................................................ 6

        Formation of the Ad Hoc Advisory Committee on South Flow Arrivals .............................................. 7

    Recommendation Areas ........................................................................................................................... 8

        Fly More Dispersed Western Approach ............................................................................................... 8

        Explore Other Approaches ................................................................................................................. 11

        Modify Procedures to Reduce the Per Flight Ground Noise Generated by Aircraft ......................... 13

        Implement FAA Policy Changes ......................................................................................................... 14

        Avoid Noisy Flight Maneuvers ........................................................................................................... 16

        Implement Noise Management Measures at SJC .............................................................................. 17

        Explore Single Regional Noise Reporting System .............................................................................. 18

    Responses from the FAA ......................................................................................................................... 19

    List of Committee Members ................................................................................................................... 20

    List of Meeting Dates .............................................................................................................................. 21

    Materials and Appendices ...................................................................................................................... 22

    Appendix A: Noise Mitigation List .......................................................................................................... 23




                                Report of the Ad Hoc Advisory Committee on South Flow Arrivals
5




    Acknowledgements
    The Committee would like to thank the San José City Council for initiating the Ad Hoc Advisory
    Committee on South Flow Arrivals, thereby demonstrating through the Committee their commitment
    to proactively identify mitigations to these challenges.

    The Committee would also like to acknowledge and thank the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA),
    as they have attended every meeting with knowledgeable and committed staff. Through various
    presentations and guest speakers, the FAA demonstrated a real effort to share information and
    educate the Committee and public about the complexity of the airspace among other issues. The
    committee feels the FAA participated in these meetings as a willing partner in search of practical
    solutions.

    The San José Airport staff has been fantastic and true partners in this effort. The Committee is
    appreciative of the meeting space and coordination provided by the staff. In particular, the
    Committee would like to recognize Matthew Kazmierczak, Manager of Strategy & Policy at San José
    International Airport for his outstanding knowledge support.

    I want to thank all the members of the Committee for the countless hours spent trying to problem
    solve such a complex issue. The calm, rational thoughtfulness that the members brought to every
    meeting created a great collaborative environment.

    Most important, the Committee wishes to thank the members of the public who attended these
    meetings and/or provided input. Our residents clearly showed a passion for this topic and a zeal for
    wanting to find transparent solutions that would work for all parties involved. They are focused on
    sharing their experiences, learning about the constraints and offering perspective on possible
    mitigations.




                      Report of the Ad Hoc Advisory Committee on South Flow Arrivals
6




    Background
    A series of flight path changes have been implemented by the FAA in early 2012 that have resulted in
    a major westward shift and concentration of air traffic corridors.

    The level and intensity of aviation noise experienced by residents of Santa Clara County is dependent
    on various factors including proximity to existing flight paths, time of day, and weather conditions.
    The noise consequences from the implementation of NextGen and overall increase of flights in our
    region are having a negative impact on the quality of life of our residents. In response to growing
    community complaints and concerns about aviation noise, Committee members request that the FAA
    assess, prioritize and implement timely noise mitigation solutions, in conjunction with this Committee
    or a successor organization.

    WHAT ARE SOUTH FLOW OPERATIONS?

    Normally, aircraft at SJC land descending from the south (over parts of downtown San José) and take
    off heading north. However, under certain weather conditions (mostly when the wind shifts direction
    at the Airport and flows from the south at higher speeds), for the sake of operational safety, the FAA
    requires pilots of arriving aircraft to follow an arrival procedure that can take descending aircraft over
    parts of San José, Cupertino, Sunnyvale, Mountain View, Palo Alto and other communities as they
    prepare to land at SJC approaching from the north flying south. When that arrival procedure is used,
    air operations are in “south flow.”

    More recently, the use of the south flow procedure has increased significantly as wind conditions that
    cause the need for south flow operations have started earlier in the day and have been lasting longer.
    Since 2015, new air traffic control technology installed by the FAA and in aircraft have resulted in
    more precise and narrowly concentrated arrival patterns, especially over San José, Sunnyvale,
    Cupertino, Mountain View, and Palo Alto. Use of the NextGen technology has increased per-flight,
    noise for residents. While this may have reduced noise for some residents, noise has increased for
    those residents living directly under the more precise arrival and approach flight paths.

    SOUTH FLOW AND THE N ORCAL METROPLEX

    The FAA has testified that Northern California is the second most complicated metroplex location
    after New York City for air traffic given the proximity and flight patterns of its three primary airports:
    San Francisco (SFO), San José (SJC), and Oakland (OAK). For safety purposes, air traffic procedures are
    required to maintain a safe vertical and horizontal distance from other aircrafts, as well as approach
    and departure flight paths.

    FAA staff has presented that a south flow arrival approach is a more complicated procedure than
    north flow given its proximity to other flight procedures for SFO traffic, and as such, it is a less
    preferred procedure when compared with north flow. The FAA stated that they only switch to south
    flow when wind and weather conditions require it. The preferred approach is north flow where
    planes approach SJC from the south flying north, as there is less air traffic from other airports.



                       Report of the Ad Hoc Advisory Committee on South Flow Arrivals
7



    FORMATION OF THE AD HOC ADVISORY COMMITT EE ON SOUTH FLOW ARRIVALS

    In November 2016, Sunnyvale and Mountain View residents attended the SJC Airport Commission
    meeting to ask the Commission to address their noise concerns. The Commission requested staff to
    write the FAA to ask for solutions to address the south flow noise issue. While the FAA responded to
    staff’s correspondence, the response offered no adjustments in the procedure.

    Sunnyvale, Mountain View and Palo Alto residents returned to the Commission in February 2017 to
    request the Commission’s support for the formation of a body to address south flow noise issues. In
    response, the Commission voted unanimously to recommend the formation of a body that included
    FAA participation.

    In March 2017, the Airport hosted a meeting organized by Congressman Ro Khanna’s office. Elected
    officials from Sunnyvale, Mountain View, Cupertino, San José, the FAA, and the Airport attended to
    discuss the south flow issue and possible solutions. There was consensus that it would be
    constructive to have public information and discussion forums to understand why the south flow
    procedure is used and to review possible solutions to reduce the noise for the most impacted
    residents. The FAA and the Airport agreed to participate in the forums.

    In response to the SJC Commission’s recommendation, Airport staff reviewed the formation and
    structure of the SFO Select Committee on South Bay Arrivals, which was an ad hoc noise committee
    formed in May 2016 by Congresswoman Anna Eshoo, Congresswoman Jackie Speier, and former
    Congressman Sam Farr. The Select Committee brought together elected officials from the
    jurisdictions of three counties to look at the noise impacts of the FAA’s 2015 implementation of its
    NextGen technology. The Committee ultimately made a series of consensus-based recommendations
    before disbanding in November 2016. The three Congressional offices endorsed and transmitted the
    Committee’s recommendations to the FAA for review.

    In reviewing the Select Committee model, Airport staff determined that the ad hoc model is a good
    process for conducting a regional discussion on possible solutions to address the noise impacts of the
    south flow procedure at SJC. Based on this, the City of San José formed the Ad Hoc Advisory
    Committee on South Flow Arrivals to discuss possible solutions. The Committee is an advisory body
    with no legal authority. Its purpose is to provide potentially feasible and consensus-based
    recommendations to the FAA to mitigate the noise impacts of the south flow procedure.

    To encourage inclusiveness and consensus, all Santa Clara County cities were invited to participate on
    the Committee. FAA staff and San José Airport staff have also participated in the discussions with the
    FAA providing technical support and the Airport providing non-technical support.

    These meetings have produced the recommendations that follow.




                      Report of the Ad Hoc Advisory Committee on South Flow Arrivals
8




    Recommendation Areas
    FLY MORE DISPERSED W ESTERN APPROACH

    Prior to the implementation of Metroplex/NextGen, aircraft were dispersed over a broader area of air
    space thereby limiting concentrated negative effects on residents and neighborhoods. A dramatic
    increase in noise complaints resulted from the implementation of NextGen, a program which
    switched a radar-based approach to a GPS approach, which also resulted in the use of Required
    Navigation Performance (RNP) and Optimal Profile Descent (OPD). These tools and procedures
    create a concentration of flight paths, referred to as a “rail” over specific neighborhoods and homes
    as shown in Figure 2, where residents bear the brunt of ground effect noise.




    The FAA has stated that having a predictable, repeatable and consistent set of procedures improves
    safety, workload and communication for aircraft preparing for landings. The Committee has reason to
    believe that if nothing is done to address dispersion, over time still more concentration will occur.

    Appendix A identifies many suggestions for “how” to achieve a more dispersed Western approach.
    (See spreadsheet items Q through CC). The Ad Hoc Advisory Committee is requesting written
    responses from the FAA to these items.




                      Report of the Ad Hoc Advisory Committee on South Flow Arrivals
9




     Request to the FAA 1: The Ad Hoc Advisory Committee requests the FAA to explore options
     and procedure changes that will still allow for the safe landing of aircraft at SJC AND return to a
     more dispersed distribution of aircraft. (Using the success criteria listed below)

     Dispersion of the existing air traffic can mean different things in each of the impacted cities.
     Directionally the Committee recommends that the FAA drive towards: 1) do not route airplanes
     over narrow rails; 2) reversion to ground noise patterns prior to 2012 in the same geographic
     proportions as before.

    Without being prescriptive of “how” to achieve dispersion of the existing air traffic over each city, the
    following details will try and define success criteria for dispersion of aircraft over each city.

    San José

    The City of San José does not have a prescription for the dispersion of aircraft on the western south
    flow approach to the SJC.

    Cupertino

    For the City of Cupertino – dispersion would mean that flight paths are distributed and not
    concentrated over a narrow flight path. Current south flow flight paths appear to be from JESEN to
    ZORSA and not from JESEN to PUCKK, or from JESEN to any point between waypoints ZORSA and
    PUCKK. It would be preferable for flight paths to be more evenly distributed between JESEN/ZORSA
    flight paths and JESEN/PUCKK flight paths. Alternative flight paths from JESEN to any point between
    waypoints ZORSA and PUCKK may also be good options for achieving dispersion and avoiding narrow
    flight path concentrations

    Sunnyvale

    For the City of Sunnyvale, dispersion would mean even distribution of the existing aircraft between
    the ZORSA and PUCKK waypoints. Not that aircraft would fly over these specific points, but rather use
    these waypoints (ZORSA and PUCKK) as an eastern and western outside logical boundary of where
    aircraft would fly over the city. Define a set of procedures, rules or processes, that would enable FAA
    to safely and equivalently distribute traffic over Sunnyvale between these two designated waypoints
    (measured over frequent interval).

    Mountain View

    For the City of Mountain View – dispersion of aircraft is essential to a solution. Two rails (straight and
    semi-circular) have sharply concentrated noise over Mountain View in recent years. These rails come
    from use of an RNP approach and a new vectoring procedure. Mountain View would like to see the
    dispersion that existed before 2012, even if that means returning some control to pilots. Can
    airplanes that are capable of turns that are tighter than the RNP turn begin their turn prior to
    reaching ZORSA, dispersing traffic to the East of the RNP rail? Can traffic on the STAR procedures
    make their turn at or after JESEN at slightly different locations and with slightly different headings,
    perhaps by recreating PUCKK as the terminal waypoint (infrequently reached) on the arrival


                       Report of the Ad Hoc Advisory Committee on South Flow Arrivals
10



     procedure? This could ‘spray’ traffic across Sunnyvale and Mountain View and along the length of
     Hwy 101 as before. Would creation of a charted visual approach help? With different procedures,
     could ATC contribute to these ends? Recreating the long-standing traffic patterns that existed prior to
     2012 would reduce complaints significantly.

     Palo Alto

     Palo Alto wants to return to the same level of dispersion as the one that existed before NextGen and
     as illustrated by the Feb 2011 data presented by the FAA. It means that:

                    Palo Alto should not get about 50% of the SJC south flow arrivals making their turn
                     over residential communities, especially considering SFO arrivals that are highly
                     concentrated near the MENLO waypoint due to NextGen changes
                    Vectored flights are NOT always vectored in the exact same way (otherwise, it creates
                     a rail corridor of vectored aircraft). Air Traffic Control (ATC) could use multiple
                     headings to create separate vectoring paths and disperse noise.
                    Every effort should be made to take advantage of compatible land use (e.g. industrial,
                     commercial, water, uninhabited areas, freeways) to minimize noise over residential
                     communities.
                    The FAA should seek solutions at the Metroplex level to create opportunities to
                     decrease noise substantially for the many residents that have been affected by the
                     NextGen changes. See items PP, QQ, RR in the Excel file.

     Santa Clara

     The City of Santa Clara is on the “Rail” in the North part of the City. The City is interested in
     determining how any changes would affect the City, but also finding modifications to the flight path
     to significantly decrease sound levels. One of the key inputs should be what an acceptable noise level
     is, and how can residents be empowered to have real-time information to assure that noise levels
     stay at acceptable levels. Are there better ways for residents to measure and report noise to the FAA
     (such as an App where residents can measure noise and report concerns immediately)?




                        Report of the Ad Hoc Advisory Committee on South Flow Arrivals
11



     EXPLORE OTHER APPROA CHES

     When the south flow arrival pattern is initiated for SJC, most traffic flies toward and through the
     ZORSA waypoint over San José, Cupertino, Sunnyvale, Mountain View and Palo Alto makes a right-
     hand turn to intersect with the final approach pattern to land.

     In reviewing radar data, there is some amount of traffic that lands at SJC during south flow that is
     vectored to land from the east. That traffic comes in and makes a left-hand turn to intersect the final
     approach.

     The FAA has told the Committee that vectoring is only used to sequence airplanes and that they do
     not vector airplanes for noise. The Committee notes that if the FAA is successful at reducing the need
     for vectoring in the future, south flow traffic currently being vectored to the eastern approach will by
     default, be shifted to the western approach.

      Request to the FAA 2A: The Ad Hoc Advisory Committee requests the FAA maintain the use of
      the Eastern vectoring for south flow arrivals as much as operationally feasible. This is an important
      tool in the controller’s toolkit.




      Request to the FAA 2B: The Ad Hoc Advisory Committee requests the FAA study the usage of
      the Eastern vectoring for south flow arrivals for the past 5 years and provide an explanation for any
      changes, increases and/or decreases.




      Request to the FAA 2C: The Ad Hoc Advisory Committee requests the FAA to document why,
      when, and how an Eastern vectoring is used into SJC during south flow.




                       Report of the Ad Hoc Advisory Committee on South Flow Arrivals
12




      Request to the FAA 2D: The Ad Hoc Advisory Committee requests the FAA to explore a
      Chartered Visual Approaches from the east and west. See item V in Appendix A.

      Milpitas

      Maintaining the current frequency of use of the Eastern approach ensures that we are not “just”
      moving ground level impacting noise to other residential communities. The Ad Hoc Advisory
      Committee requests that should there be increased flight volume at SJC, the FAA implement an
      equal dispersing of those flights to all approaches so that one zone or area of communities is not
      burdened.

      San José

      The City of San José strongly opposes any prescription for dispersion that would move more
      aircraft towards an Eastern approach to SJC during south flow. A move to fly more aircraft than
      currently diverted onto an Eastern approach has the potential to put more aircraft over some of
      the lower-income communities of San José and could present environmental justice and
      socioeconomic fairness concerns. When aircraft are in the normal north flow approach to SJC, San
      José residents already experience the largest share of aircraft noise, some 85 percent of the time.

     Appendix A identifies suggestions for “how” this might be accomplished. (See spreadsheet items M,
     N, and P). The Ad Hoc Advisory Committee is requesting written responses from the FAA to these
     items.

     Regardless of the outcome of this evaluation, the Committee requests the FAA not lose or stop the
     vectored approach that some aircraft currently use to approach and land at SJC. It is important we do
     not reduce the amount of traffic using this path.




                       Report of the Ad Hoc Advisory Committee on South Flow Arrivals
13



     MODIFY PROCEDURES TO REDUCE THE PER FLIGHT GROUND NOISE GENERATED BY
     AIRCRAFT

     The objective the Ad Hoc Advisory Committee is to achieve the reduction and/or mitigation of ground
     level per flight impacting noise from aircraft. Items A through K from the spreadsheet are suggestions
     for how to achieve noise reduction.

     Per information that was provided by the FAA at the April 13, 2018 Ad Hoc Advisory Committee
     meeting, the highest probability items to implement are D, E, F of the spreadsheet. (The FAA’s
     comments were not a commitment that these items could be implemented or that they would
     achieve the desired results.)

      Request to the FAA 3: The Ad Hoc Advisory Committee requests the FAA initiate a full
      procedure evaluation to implement item E and F, the purpose being to implement the concept of
      item D.

     These items are based on the concept that all other things being equal, “altitude is our friend,” as it
     relates to ground level per flight impact noise from aircraft. The higher the aircraft, the less its noise
     will impact residents on the ground.

     If the FAA has additional suggestions on raising aircraft altitude, these should also be included in the
     evaluations.

     The success criteria for this set of items is to safely land aircraft at SJC and keep the aircraft as high as
     possible for as long as possible without requiring added lift, brakes or jet thrust, while still allowing
     for safety, appropriate decent paths, and sequencing to land at the airport.




                        Report of the Ad Hoc Advisory Committee on South Flow Arrivals
14



     IMPLEMENT FAA POLICY CHANGES

     Sound Monitoring in the Impacted Cities

     Since the implementation of NexGen, the FAA has not changed how it reviews noise impacts to
     communities. Noise impacts due to changes in aviation paths and procedures have been reviewed
     using noise modeling technology instead of actual measurement of noise generated from aircraft.
     The Committee requests the FAA monitor actual noise generated and, furthermore, establish a
     benchmark to measure pre and post implementation of recommended changes, thereby making it
     easier to analyze effectiveness.

          Request to the FAA 4: Implement aircraft noise monitoring (by appropriate entity) in areas
          throughout Santa Clara County to measure the effectiveness of noise mitigation solutions. Noise
          data captured by sound monitoring should be used by the FAA to validate the modeling tools the
          FAA uses as part of its environmental impact evaluations.

     The point of noise modeling is to simulate real-world conditions. The noise models used by the FAA
     should be calibrated ground level noise under varying weather conditions. If certain south flow flight
     procedures have been optimized for sound, the procedure designers should ensure that they have
     calibrated their procedures to the weather conditions most prevalent when those procedures are to
     be deployed.

     Appendix A identified suggestions for “how” this might be accomplished. (See items K, MM and OO).

          Request to the FAA 5: The Ad Hoc Advisory Committee on South Flow Arrivals is aware that for
          each new potential aviation route into the San Francisco Metroplex a noise simulation and
          prediction is/was required. The Committee requests that the FAA provide those simulation
          results that include predicted noise levels and all other associated data.

          Further, The Committee requests that when the FAA posts a procedure for public comment at the
          Instrument Flight Procedures (IFP) gateway, environmental analyses, including noise assessments,
          pertaining to that procedure shall be posted along with it, and at the same time.




     Improve Public Outreach

     In April, it was discovered that the FAA was in the process of evaluating a new approach procedure
     for SJC Instrument Landing System (ILS), which would take effect in July of 2018. Neither the FAA
     meeting representatives, Committee, or the public were aware this change was being considered.
     The lack of public outreach to potential affected communities highlighted the need for transparency
     and improved public process and communication. Included in Appendix C are letters from the
     Mayors of Los Altos, Mountain View and Palo Alto concerning the lack of transparency on this issue.




                       Report of the Ad Hoc Advisory Committee on South Flow Arrivals
15




     Request to the FAA 6A: The Committee is requesting that the FAA improve the notification
     mechanisms to better alert potential affected communities when procedures are being reviewed.
     Simply posting to the FAA’s IFP Gateway website at the National level is not sufficient to provide
     clear, layman understandable language and transparent information to the public. There needs to
     be better regional and local outreach process that informs public officials and members of the
     public when changes are being proposed in their region.




     Request to the FAA 6B: The Committee is requesting the FAA to ask all affected Airlines to
     participate along with FAA, SJC, and interested public constituents when discussions regarding
     existing and proposed flight path changes are being considered for adoption.




                  Report of the Ad Hoc Advisory Committee on South Flow Arrivals
16



     AVOID NOISY FLIGHT MANEUVERS

     The Committee spent a considerable amount of time discussing and hearing from FAA, traffic control
     and airport officials on noise mitigation through airplane flight modifications. Committee members
     explored scenarios where changing airplane speed, altitude, and aircraft vectoring could have a noise
     reduction impact, below are the recommended mitigations:

     Items: A, B, C, G, H, J, K

     Given the technical complexity of these items, the Committee does not have a specific ranking
     recommendations. Instead, the success criteria is the same, which is to implement changes that allow
     for the continued safe flight operations of aircraft while reducing the impact of ground level per flight
     noise on impacted communities.

      Request to the FAA 7: The Committee is requesting the FAA review these suggestions and
      provide a written response about the feasibility of implementation.




                         Report of the Ad Hoc Advisory Committee on South Flow Arrivals
17



     IMPLEMENT NOISE MANAGEMENT MEASURES AT SJC

     Mitigating noise should also be explored from an airport operator perspective. Operationally,
     consideration should be given to modifying arrival flight profiles and capitalizing on advanced
     navigational technologies, as well as reviewing noise curfews. Other noise management options
     include working with airlines and pilots to manage airplane noise, examples include the Fly Quiet
     Program, and creating a Pilot Awareness Program.

      Request to SJC A: The Committee recommends that the San José Airport respond to the
      following recommendations and provide a response on feasibility of implementation. Prioritized
      items DD through LL.

     San José Airport has provided additional information for items DD through LL in Appendix A. This
     information ranges from federal regulations of noise and landing requirements to the information
     contained in SJC’s noise reports.




                       Report of the Ad Hoc Advisory Committee on South Flow Arrivals
18



     EXPLORE SINGLE REGIO NAL NOISE REPORTING SYSTEM

     The existing noise complaint system is confusing and places a significant burden on the complaint
     reporter, requiring fields such as aircraft type and destination airport. Before a complaint can be
     processed, contact information for the specific airport must be researched. A separate process exists
     for submitting complaints on south flow aircraft noise. This is an undue burden placed on the
     residents reporting noise concerns that have already been clearly defined and documented as
     occurring.

      Request to the FAA 8A (or SJC, if they are the more appropriate body): The Ad Hoc
      Advisory Committee requests the FAA to initiate a study to look at creating or adopting a single
      Aircraft Noise Reporting System for the area, including, but not limited to: Ease of reporting by the
      public; transparent agency analysis; agency response; and publicly access reporting results. The
      user interface for this system should minimize the number of “clicks” required to log a complaint.




      Request to the FAA 8B: The Ad Hoc Advisory Committee requests that the FAA initiate a study
      to use the information collected in 8A to identify and analyze noise trends that should be
      addressed.




                       Report of the Ad Hoc Advisory Committee on South Flow Arrivals
19




     Responses from the FAA
     The Ad Hoc Advisory Committee on South Flow Arrivals was designed to be limited term, starting in
     January 2018 and sunsetting in May 2018. The Committee believes it is important to define a contact
     protocol once the Ad Hoc Advisory Committee on South Flow Arrivals has concluded for the FAA to
     provide its response to the recommendations.

     Recommendation: When the FAA has any feedback on the Committee’s requests or additional
     questions, the FAA should contact:

           Matthew Kazmierczak, Manager of Strategy & Policy at San José International Airport
            Matthew.Kazmierczak@sanjoseca.gov
           Glenn Hendricks, Mayor of Sunnyvale and Committee Chair Person
            mayor@sunnyvale.ca.gov
           Andi Jordan – Cities Association of Santa Clara County
            andi@citiesassociation.org

     Depending on the information provided by the FAA, the designated contact representatives shall:

           Pass information on from the FAA to Committee members
           Post information on the Committee website hosted by SJC:
            https://www.flysanjose.com/Ad_Hoc_Meetings

     Additionally, the contacts may:

           Convene an informal meeting of the former Committee members
           Provide responses to FAA questions
           Other actions, as may be deemed necessary




                       Report of the Ad Hoc Advisory Committee on South Flow Arrivals
20




     List of Committee Members
           Councilmember Jeffery Cristina – Campbell
           Councilmember Savita Vaidhyanthan – Cupertino
           Mayor Jean (John) Mordo – Los Altos
           Councilmember Gary Waldeck – Los Altos Hills
           Councilmember Bob Nuñez – Milpitas
           Councilmember Rowena Turner – Monte Sereno
           Councilmember Rene Soring – Morgan Hill
           Vice Mayor Lisa Matichak – Mountain View
           Councilmember Lydia Kou – Palo Alto
           Mayor Mary-Lynne Bernald – Saratoga
           Councilmember Charles “Chappie” Jones – San José (Vice Chair)
           Councilmember Raul Peralez – San José
           Vice Mayor Kathy Watanabe – City of Santa Clara
           Mayor Glenn Hendricks – Sunnyvale (Chair)

     List of Committee Alternate Members

           Councilmember Liz Gibbons – Campbell
           Councilmember Steven Scharf – Cupertino
           Councilmember Barry Chang – Cupertino (Alternate to the Alternate)
           Vice Mayor Lynette Lee Eng – Los Altos
           Vice Mayor Marsha Grilli – Milpitas
           Vice Mayor Evert Wolsheimer– Monte Sereno
           Councilmember Larry Carr – Morgan Hill
           Mayor Leonard Siegel – Mountain View
           Vice Mayor Eric Filseth – Palo Alto
           Councilmember Howard Miller – Saratoga
           Councilmember Johnny Khamis – San José
           Councilmember Teresa O’Neill – City of Santa Clara
           Vice Mayor Larry Klein – Sunnyvale




                      Report of the Ad Hoc Advisory Committee on South Flow Arrivals
21




     List of Meeting Dates
         November 27, 2016 – Organizational Meeting – City of San José Committee Room
         January 26, 2018 – City of San José Council Chambers
         February 23, 2018 – SJC, Boeing Conference Room
         March 9, 2018 – SJC, Boeing Conference Room
         March 23, 2018 - SJC, Boeing Conference Room
         April 13, 2018 – SJC, Boeing Conference Room
         April 27, 2018 – SJC, Boeing Conference Room
         May 18, 2018 – SJC, Boeing Conference Room




                    Report of the Ad Hoc Advisory Committee on South Flow Arrivals
22




     Materials and Appendices
     Appendix A: Noise Mitigation List

     Appendix B: Meeting Documents (link)

     Appendix C: Public Comments (link)



     Links to YouTube videos of the Committee Meetings:

     1/26/2018 - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0dMAvbNpmkM

     2/23/2018 - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PUBy6Hf0kyc

     3/23/2018 - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u7yt72AMFeA




     Links to the audio recordings of the Committee Meetings are available at the SJC website:

     https://www.flysanjose.com/Ad_Hoc_Committee_Recordings




                       Report of the Ad Hoc Advisory Committee on South Flow Arrivals
23




     Appendix A: Noise Mitigation List




              Report of the Ad Hoc Advisory Committee on South Flow Arrivals
                                                                                                                         Appendix A: Noise Mitigation List from the Ad Hoc Advisory Committee




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             +
                        Prop of




                                                   n
                   n




                                                                                                                                                                                                     Resp JC
                                         Desc vel




                                                                                                                                                            tions




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       tial +
                                                                                                                                                        Ques &
                             osed




                                                                                                                                                                                                         onse
                                             riptio
             estio




                              ge




                                                                                       ils




                                                                                                                                                                                                          rS
                            ory




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     / -- C
                                                                                                                                                              s
                                              Le




                                                                                                                                                         Note
                         Chan




                                                                                   Deta




                                                                                                                                                                                                     FAA o
                       Categ




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Poten
                                         High
         Sugg




                                                                                                                                                                                                                Pros
                                                       Limit speed to a minimum necessary for safety on
                                                       approach.
                                                                                                            Minimum safe speed varies by airplane. It is the minium above the stall speed.
                       Modify the   Limit speed to At 220kts, Airframe noise = Engine noise for
                                                                                                            Within reason, favor lower peak noise levels over shorter noise duration. During
         A             way planes   slowest & safest departures. Since engine noise on arrivals is almost
                                                                                                            south flow, people can be indoors with windows closed. Minimizing peak noise
                       fly          possible         certainly lower than on departures for any given
                                                                                                            levels will reduce the number of noticeable events indoors.
                                                     speed, the guidance would be to reduce the
                                                     airframe noise as much as possible (until it reaches
                                                     the engine noise): to do this, fly slower and cleaner.

                                    Limit speed to
                       Modify the
                                    lowest possible    Limit speed to a maximum necessary for safety on
         B             way planes
                                    when under         approach when airplanes are 4000’ or lower.
                                                                                                                 Minimum safe speed varies by airplane. It is the minium above the stall speed.
                       fly
                                    4000’
                       Modify the                      Have planes glide to landing to eliminate noise
                                                                                                             Is FMS or pilot in control?
         C             way planes   Glide (OPD?)       from engines and minimize use of lift devices (flaps,
                       fly                             slats) and braking devices.

                       Modify the
                                                       Raise altitude along the approach, provided
         D             way planes   Raise altitude
                                                       airplanes do not have to fly dirtier or use jet thrust.
                       fly


                                                                                                                 Why not? - FAA safety standards?
                                                                                                                 Is the altitude at ZORSA a Minimum En Route Altitude (MEA instead of a crossing
                                                                                                                 altitude)?
                                                                                                                 A commercial pilot reviewing the RNP AR Z approach said that he wouldn’t be
                       Modify the                     Return ZORSA to 3,200’ and make it a minimum
                                    Raise altitude at                                                            surprised if the 3000' altitude was programmed into the FMS. We should be able
         E             way planes
                                    ZORSA
                                                      altitude, provided airplanes do not have to fly
                                                                                                                 to determine this.
                       fly                            dirtier or use jet thrust.
                                                                                                                 The FAA Design Guide for OPD procedures advocates 'path flexibility' as a means
                                                                                                                 to enable airplanes to descend efficiently and at a quiet idle. The fewer
                                                                                                                 constraints in OPD paths and arrival procedures, the more freedom planes will
                                                                                                                 have to descend efficiently and quietly.



                                                                                                                 Use the additional altitude to reduce the need for lift devices and thrust during
                                                                                                                 the remainder of the approach over residential areas.
                       Modify the
                                    Relax altitude at Relax the altitude requirements at HITIR from              The FAA Design Guide for OPD procedures advocates 'path flexibility' as a means
         F             way planes
                                    HITIR             exactly 4000’ to at or above 4000’.                        to enable airplanes to descend efficiently and at a quiet idle. The fewer
                       fly
                                                                                                                 constraints in OPD paths and arrival procedures, the more freedom planes will
                                                                                                                 have to descend efficiently and quietly.



                                                                                                                 The FAA Design Guide for OPD procedures advocates 'path flexibility' as a means
                       Modify the   Relax altitude     Allow planes to arrive at HITIR at altitudes and
                                                                                                                 to enable airplanes to descend efficiently and at a quiet idle. The fewer
         G             way planes   and speed at       speeds that allow them to reach the Bay without
                                                                                                                 constraints in OPD paths and arrival procedures, the more freedom planes will
                       fly          HITIR              flying dirty or using thrust.
                                                                                                                 have to descend efficiently and quietly.


                       Modify the   Optimize        The FAA should initiate R&D to enable ATC
         H             way planes   descent profile procedures that would encourage vectored
                       fly          to HITIR (OPD?) airplanes to descend at a glide.


                       Modify the   Use gradual,   Have planes gradually descend along a smooth                  Need to determine the amount of stepping that is currently occurring and where
         I             way planes   smooth descent descent flight pattern to limit stepping and the              it is occurring. Need to understand how low a plane should go over which areas
                       fly          (OPD)          need for engine changes to maintain altitude.                 even with no steps.




1 of 7                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5/25/2018
                                                                                                                        Appendix A: Noise Mitigation List from the Ad Hoc Advisory Committee




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   +
                         Prop of




                                                     n
                   n




                                                                                                                                                                                                         Resp JC
                                           Desc vel




                                                                                                                                                             tions




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             tial +
                                                                                                                                                         Ques &
                              osed




                                                                                                                                                                                                             onse
                                               riptio
             estio




                               ge




                                                                                        ils




                                                                                                                                                                                                              rS
                             ory




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           / -- C
                                                                                                                                                               s
                                                Le




                                                                                                                                                          Note
                          Chan




                                                                                    Deta




                                                                                                                                                                                                         FAA o
                        Categ




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Poten
                                           High
         Sugg




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Pros
                                                                                                               Are we measuring when FMS or pilot controls?
                                                         Design arrival and departure procedures to            What design data is available to route designers?
                                                         minimize noise.                                       Which flights are noisier? Why?
                                                                                                               The definition of a noisy procedure needs to be clarified - start with use of lift
                                                         Establish noise monitors in entire low altitude areas devices, braking devices and jet thrust.
                                      Limit or defer
                       Modify the                        around airport.                                       How will we measure this?
                                      flight
         J             way planes
                                      procedures
                                                                                                               We need to get long-term, reliable and government acknowledged noise
                       fly                               Compare noise as measured on the ground under monitoring.
                                      that are noisy
                                                         varying weather conditions for procedures when 1) Per the FAA, the FAA's noise modeling tool, AEDT version 2d, is being improved.
                                                         flown by pilots and 2) flown by flight management Later this year, AEDT version 3a is "Seeking to improve abilities at lower DNL.
                                                         systems. Report results, along with 3) the modeled Improving takeoff weight and thrust modeling; Improving aircraft performance
                                                         noise prediction(s).                                  module". AEDT4 will "incorporate airframe noise more explicitly" in a post 2020
                                                                                                               release. Source: Dr. James Hileman presentation, 2/27/18.




                                                                                                                How?
                                                                                                                One idea: Allow aircraft to arrive at different altitudes at HITIR. Use the additional
                                                                                                                altitude to reduce the need for lift devices and thrust during the remainder of the
                                                         Optimize all arrival and approach procedures for
                       Modify the     Optimize                                                                  approach over residential areas. Especially appropriate for vectored flights.
                                                         noise assuming the weather expected when the
         K             way planes     procedures for
                                                         procedures are to be deployed. Bring focus to the
                                                                                                                When optimizing for noise, procedure designers should factor in weather
                       fly            noise                                                                     expectations, and should assume the wind direction, wind speed and
                                                         75% of flights that do not fly the RNP approach.
                                                                                                                temperature that are most common when the procedures are to be deployed.
                                                                                                                South flow is used in the cooler winter months and is only triggered when a
                                                                                                                tailwind of 5 knots or more is expected.




                                                                                                                Preliminary DB meter noise readings are indicating that the RNP path is louder
                                                         Move RNP path North (over Bay not over other           than the planes flygint the ILS path.
                                                         cities) to reduce noise. Also disperse flights along   The tight turning radius seems to create more noise for many of these planes.
                       Modify         Change RNP
         L             flight paths   path
                                                         rails (Western rail and turning rail.)                 If no mitigation is accomplished for the RNP, then more and more planes will be
                                                         Better yet, eliminate the RNP path which would         shifted to this very loud flight path.
                                                         eliminate the rail.                                    This flight path has been built on efficiency only, and disregards the excessive
                                                                                                                noise created for residents under this tight turning loop.


                                                     Move flights from the SW in their Northern turn            MV/LA consultant is working on a potential path.                                                    - - Potential of moving noise over
                       Modify         Move turn over
         M             flight paths   Bay
                                                     over the Bay. Current, published flight path exists,       Expanding the Northern loop only helps if it also means altitude is raised over the                 another city or different group of
                                                     but is no longer frequently used.                          cities.                                                                                             residents.



                                                                                                            An East approach leads to significantly less residential noise compared to South
                                                                                                            flow flights approching from the West - flights approaching from the West fly
                                                                                                            over at minimum 15 miles of dense residential areas. Eastern approachs would be
                                                                                                            approx 1 mile of residential with the remainder generally industrial.
                                                                                                            In 2015, an analysis of FAA FOIA data shows that 32% of the South flow flights
                                                                                                            approached SJC from an easterly direction. This percentatge is decreasing with
                       Modify         New path from      Create a new path that approaches airport from the                                                                                                         ++ Moves South flow traffic from SJ,
         N             flight paths   East               East.
                                                                                                            time, and these planes are being "rolled" into the rail. These Eastern approaches
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Cup, SV & MV to over the Bay.
                                                                                                            need to be preseved, and not reduced.
                                                                                                            Examination of an East approach into SJC was recommended as a possible noise
                                                                                                            mitigation by the FAA
                                                                                                            The East route would shorten the path and increase flight efficiency for planes
                                                                                                            originating from the East side of the United States
                                                                                                            Planes already fly these East routes.


                                      Community
                       Modify                                                                                   The community is united in asking for flights to be dispersed as they were prior to
         P             flight paths
                                      defined flight     Where does the community want the planes to fly?
                                                                                                                2012.
                                      paths




2 of 7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5/25/2018
                                                                                                                      Appendix A: Noise Mitigation List from the Ad Hoc Advisory Committee




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             +
                        Prop of




                                                   n
                   n




                                                                                                                                                                                                   Resp JC
                                         Desc vel




                                                                                                                                                          tions




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       tial +
                                                                                                                                                      Ques &
                             osed




                                                                                                                                                                                                       onse
                                             riptio
             estio




                              ge




                                                                                      ils




                                                                                                                                                                                                        rS
                            ory




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     / -- C
                                                                                                                                                            s
                                              Le




                                                                                                                                                       Note
                         Chan




                                                                                  Deta




                                                                                                                                                                                                   FAA o
                       Categ




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Poten
                                         High
         Sugg




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Pros
                                                                                                         The FAA stated that safety will always be better with an RNAV approach than
                                                                                                         with vectoring. Is there a study that proves this claim? Also, health needs to be
                                                   Manually disperse flights paths to pre-2012 levels, considered along with safety. The health effects of fine particulate matter from
                                    Revert to pre-
                       Disperse                    or create and publish multiple flight paths that will airplanes being concentrated on a narrow band of residents are being studied
         Q             flights
                                    2012 paths and
                                                   accomplish similar dispersion such as reverting the and those findings should be factored in.
                                    dispersion
                                                   waypoints back to pre-2012 waypoints/flight paths. The prior dispersed flight paths were safe and successful for decades.
                                                                                                         The current flight mix and volumen at SJC is similar to the mix and volume that
                                                                                                         existe during the dot com boom so dispersion should be achievable again.



                                                                                                             The objective is to reduce the number of flights flying the rail that takes planes
                                    New parallel       Create additional flight paths to the West of current                                                                                                  - - Flights over the Santa Cruz mountains
                       Disperse                                                                              from JESEN to ZORSA and beyond along the same heading into Palo Alto. Planes
         R             flights
                                    flight paths to    paths by vectoring planes toward different
                                                                                                             would be vectored off this rail at different locations and with different headings,
                                                                                                                                                                                                              are more turbulent.
                                    West               locations along the Bay.
                                                                                                             resulting in their crossing Hwy 101 at locations along its length.



                                                                                                              A fly-over waypoint concentrates flights. Today ZORSA is located to
                                                                                                              accommodate the turning radius of the largest planes. As a fly-by waypoint,
                                                                                                              smaller planes could turn sooner, dispersing the flights.
                                    New parallel       On the STAR Arrival procedures, recast ZORSA and
                                                                                                              By moving or eliminating HITIR maximum dispersion would be possible after
                                    flight paths to    HITIR as fly-by waypoints. Relocate HITIR to be as
                       Disperse                                                                               JESEN.
         S             flights
                                    East               close to JESEN as possible or perhaps eliminate it. If
                                                                                                              Recasting ZORSA and HITIR as fly-by waypoints on the RAZRR and SILCN STAR
                                    (fan out flight    design criteria prohibit this, terminate the STAR
                                                                                                              procedures would permit airplanes to begin their turns to the Bay as soon as
                                    paths)             procedures at JESEN.
                                                                                                              possible after JESEN, based on the turning radiuses of those airplanes and the
                                                                                                              programming of their FMS'es. This would reintroduce some dispersion as planes
                                                                                                              'peel off the rail' early and at different places.


                                                                                                             Automated dispersion addresses safety, efficiency, and noise. It will create safe
                                                                                                             dispersion. If flight dispersion is required, then technology to automate that
                                                                                                             dispersion will be developed.
                                                                                                             For effective noise mitigation, flight paths miles wide are needed (because of the
                                                                                                             way airplane noise travels).
                                                       Modify the NextGen system to automatically
                       Disperse     Automate                                                                 Dispersion will stop the rail from disproportionally impacting residents under the               ++ Addresses safety, efficiency, and
         T             flights      dispersion
                                                       disperse flights. Automated dispersion addresses
                                                                                                             narrow flight paths.                                                                             noise.
                                                       safety, efficiency, and noise.
                                                                                                             When residents purchased their homes, they made decisions based on historical
                                                                                                             flight paths, now those flight paths have been shifted into narrow rails over
                                                                                                             residents who previously had very few or no planes flying over thier homes. The
                                                                                                             rails need to be broken.


                                                                                                             ATC would use each flight path in rotation so as not to burden any one
                       Disperse     Use multiple       Define multiple flight paths across the historic
         U             flights      flight paths       corridor and rotate planes between them.
                                                                                                             neighborhood with all the flights. The period of rotation would be hours or                      -- Too many routes to design.
                                                                                                             maybe a day.

                                                                                                                                                                                                              ++ Provides pilots with another flight
                                                                                                                                                                                                              path.
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ++ More likely to be endorsed by airlines
                                                                                                             FAA suggestion. Also an MV/LA consultant suggestion.
                                                                                                                                                                                                              and used by pilots.
                                                                                                             Pilots have more discretion when flying a visual approach than when flying RNAV
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ++ Might align better with historical
                                    Charted visual     Define a western charted visual flight approach       approaches.
                       Disperse                                                                                                                                                                               flight corridor because an RNAV visual
         V             flights
                                    flight             with the turn over the Bay. Define an eastern         Issue: Many airlines issue instructions that the pilots must use the regular
                                                                                                                                                                                                              approach permits a sharper turn than
                                    procedures         charted visual flight approach.                       instrument approaches, however some airlines prefer a charted approach to
                                                                                                                                                                                                              RNP does.
                                                                                                             pilots flying with no defined approach over an area (as is the case today for MV
                                                                                                                                                                                                              - - Can only be used when visual
                                                                                                             and Palo Alto for planes not flying the RNAV RNP approach).
                                                                                                                                                                                                              approach can be used which may be
                                                                                                                                                                                                              limited when South flow is used and
                                                                                                                                                                                                              weather causes low visibility.




3 of 7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5/25/2018
                                                                                                                     Appendix A: Noise Mitigation List from the Ad Hoc Advisory Committee




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              +
                        Prop of




                                                   n
                   n




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Resp JC
                                         Desc vel




                                                                                                                                                        tions




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tial +
                                                                                                                                                    Ques &
                             osed




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                onse
                                             riptio
             estio




                              ge




                                                                                     ils




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 rS
                            ory




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      / -- C
                                                                                                                                                          s
                                              Le




                                                                                                                                                     Note
                         Chan




                                                                                 Deta




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FAA o
                       Categ




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Poten
                                         High
         Sugg




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Pros
                                                                                                          Historically, planes missed the PUCKK waypoint far more than they hit it. The
                                    Revert final       Revert the final waypoint on the STAR procedure to expectation is that, going forward, almost all planes would peel off the procedure
                       Disperse
         W             flights
                                    waypoint to        PUCKK. (On JAWWS TWO) This was the final           before reaching PUCKK, recreating the earlier dispersion. Since JESEN was not a
                                    PUCKK              waypoint for SJC south flow in 2012.               waypoint when PUCKK was in use, flights were centered on a point ~0.25nm east
                                                                                                          of JESEN.


                                                       Revert the final waypoint on the STAR procedure to
                                    Revert final       JESEN (on JAWWS THREE). Remove HITIR, ZORSA Airplanes change heading after JESEN. The idea is to allow airplanes to turn at
                       Disperse
         X             flights
                                    waypoint to        and flight headings after JESEN from airplanes'    very slightly different times and possibly slightly different headings after JESEN to
                                    JESEN              Flight Management Systems databases. Encourage break up the rail.
                                                       ATC to disperse flights.


                                                                                                            The FAA Design Guide for OPD procedures advocates 'path flexibility' as a means
                       Disperse                        Give planes more flexibility around hitting the      to enable airplanes to descend efficiently and at a quiet idle. The fewer
         Y             flights
                                    Relax waypoints
                                                       waypoints.                                           constraints in OPD paths and arrival procedures, the more freedom planes will
                                                                                                            have to descend efficiently and quietly.


                                                                                                            The FAA Design Guide for OPD procedures advocates 'path flexibility' as a means
                       Disperse     Move, eliminate                                                         to enable airplanes to descend efficiently and at a quiet idle. The fewer
         Z             flights      waypoints
                                                    Move or eliminate waypoints.
                                                                                                            constraints in OPD paths and arrival procedures, the more freedom planes will
                                                                                                            have to descend efficiently and quietly.


                                                      Define different approach paths for large and
                                    Approach                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  - - Return to historic corridor over
                       Disperse                       medium-to-small planes. An approach path could Large planes need a wider turning radius than small planes.
         AA            flights
                                    tailored to plane
                                                      be created after JESEN suitable for medium-to-     Multiple flight paths based on size would introduce some dispersion.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Sunnyvale.
                                    size                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      - - Too many routes to design.
                                                      small planes. ZORSA could be used by large planes.


                                                      Define two sets of procedures – one for when
                       Disperse     Efficiency or not efficiency is demanded (which is more noisy), one
         BB            flights      procedures        for when efficiency is not required (which is less
                                                                                                            During non-peak hours, noise-optimized procedures would be used.
                                                      noisy).


                       Disperse     Discourage         Discourage narrow, concentrated (single line) flight Can ATC (Flight Controllers) do this?
         CC            flights      concentration      paths. Stop eliminating discretionary paths.         How?




                                                                                                         Curfew hours only prohibit noisy flights from using the airport during those
                                                                                                         hours. Quiet flight can still use the airport during curfew hours. Exceptions exist
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Airport: Not directly related to south flow arrivals. The Federal Aircraft Noise Capacity
                                                       Change curfew hours to 10:00 pm - 6:30 am (from for weather, mechanical, etc. issues.
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Act (ANCA) of 1990 controls Noise Ordinances. This act does not permit the enactment
                       Penalize     Expand noise       11:30 pm - 6:30 am) perhaps just when using South SJC is grandfathered into having a curfew. No new curfews can be established.
     DD                noise        curfew hours       flow is being used.                               Grandfathered curfews are not likely to allowed to change.
                                                                                                                                                                                                  of increased restriction to airport flight/noise restrictions without federal approval,
                                                                                                                                                                                                  which has been withheld in all cases to-date. Given this, the Airport does not have the
                                                                                                         Which entity controls the curfew at the airport - SJC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                  authority to make the curfew more restrictive.
                                                                                                         What would be done with the money collected - SJC collects.
                                                                                                         How would changing the curfew impact the overall schedule for SJC - Very little.


                                    Increase noise
                       Penalize                                                                             SJC defines the fines and f\ines exist. $2,500 per occurrence, with many
         EE            noise
                                    curfew violation
                                                                                                            exceptions granted. Very few aircraft are not allowed to fly at night.
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Airport: See answer to DD
                                    fines

                                    Base landing                                                            What would be done with the money collected?
                       Penalize     fees on noise                                                           How do we determine the definition of noise that should be charged a fee?
         FF            noise        generated                                                               How can this be measured?
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Airport: See answer to DD
                                    during arrival                                                          Airport authority controls the landing fees at SJC.




4 of 7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5/25/2018
                                                                                                                           Appendix A: Noise Mitigation List from the Ad Hoc Advisory Committee




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        +
                            Prop of




                                                         n
                   n




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Resp JC
                                               Desc vel




                                                                                                                                                                tions




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  tial +
                                                                                                                                                            Ques &
                                 osed




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        onse
                                                   riptio
             estio




                                  ge




                                                                                             ils




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         rS
                                ory




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                / -- C
                                                                                                                                                                  s
                                                    Le




                                                                                                                                                             Note
                             Chan




                                                                                         Deta




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FAA o
                           Categ




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Poten
                                               High
         Sugg




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Pros
                                                                                                                   Other cities have done this.
                                                                                                                   Who controls the authority to require this?
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Airport: The SFO Select Committee made a recommendation that the FAA require                 - - A given airline would have to do this
                                           Require Airbus                                                          UA started their retrofit in Nov 2017.
                          Penalize                           Require Airbus 320 family to install “wake vortex                                                                                           operators of the A320 family to install "wake vortex generators", however the FAA            to their entire fleet of the aircraft type as
     GG                   noise
                                           320 air
                                                             generators”
                                                                                                                   SJC can impose limits of use & fines.
                                                                                                                                                                                                         response was that this was outside their area of authority. SJC estimates that roughly       they don’t know which aircraft will end
                                           deflectors                                                              At a recent SFO Roundtable, SFO staff suggested they had some ideas for how to
                                                                                                                                                                                                         6.7% of south flow flights are from this family of aircraft.                                 up on a specific flight.
                                                                                                                   encourage airlines to install vortex generators if they were initially reluctant.
                                                                                                                   Discuss with them.

                                                                                                                   How will they know that a problem exists?
                                                                                                                   What is a quiet vs. a noisy procedure?
                                                                                                                   What is definition to use?
                                           Require curfew    Require flights landing during the noise curfew to
                          Penalize                                                                                 What would they do if it did?                                                   Airport: Noise curfew violations are posted online.
     HH                   noise
                                           violation         report online what is causing them to violate the
                                                                                                                   Need to model noise and use model to decide if exceeded.                        https://www.flysanjose.com/noise-reports
                                           reporting         noise curfew in advance of their landing.
                                                                                                                   Easy to say that a 'safety' issue caused it.
                                                                                                                   At the Airplane Noise Symposium in Long Beach in late February, it was reported
                                                                                                                   that one airport had success with this approach.


                                                                                                                   Need to define definition of quieter. What incentives and how are they funded?
                          Reward
         II               quiet
                                           Incentives        Provide incentives to airlines to fly quieter.        dBA is the accepted unit of measurement. Individual cities have their own limits Airport: See answer to DD
                                                                                                                   FAA has limits too, but allows "emergency procedures".




                       Change SJC                          Remove the displaced runway designation at SJC in
                                        Remove displaced                                                     This may not be achievable because of the height of buildings in downtown SJ.
         JJ            operations to
                                        runway designation
                                                           order to make use of full runway so that reverse
                                                                                                             And, the community does not want a longer runway to lead to bigger airplanes.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      - - Very expensive
                       reduce noise                        flow might not need to be used so often.




                                                                                                                                                                                                         Airport: According to an FAA report dated September 2017 Honeywell has an
                                                                                                                                                                                                         operational CAT I GBAS system available at Newark and Houston as Non‐Federal
                                                                                                                                                                                                         systems (airport sponsored). Current airlines utilizing this system at these two airports
                                                                                                                                                                                                         which also operate at SJC are United, Delta, Lufthansa and British Airways. However,
                                                                                                                                                                                                         only select planes have the necessary equipment to utilize the system and runway
                                                             GBAS (Ground-Based Augmentation System) is a                                                                                                length matters. It's still very much in development and testing. CAT II/III systems are
                                                             system that augments the primary airport systems                                                                                            not yet operational. Boeing is also testing a GBAS system.                                   =-- SJC - While GBAS may potentially
                       Change SJC
                                                             and provides enhanced management of all phases        Is this still at the beginning (experimental) phase?                                  Airport: Initial reports are that if a runway is long enough, it may lower overall noise     lower noise around some airports, given
     KK1               operations to    Use GBAS
                                                             of approach, landing, departure and surface           How long until this is ready for full use?                                            impacts in some communities due to the shifting of the approach path.                        the flight path and runway length, it is
                       reduce noise
                                                             operations. It can result in differentiated landing                                                                                         It's probably important to understand that the installations currently using GBAS or         questionable if GBAS is feasible for SJC.
                                                             positions on a runway.                                                                                                                      piloting GBAS are all large hub airports, which serve as a hub for a commercial airlines
                                                                                                                                                                                                         or are participating as part of R&D. As an example EWR and IAH are both hubs for
                                                                                                                                                                                                         United Airlines, as is SFO, which is currently conducting a pilot program. Since this is a
                                                                                                                                                                                                         non‐federal program the airlines and airports are paying not only for the installation
                                                                                                                                                                                                         but also the maintenance of GBAS. These costs may be prohibitive for a medium hub
                                                                                                                                                                                                         airport, especially one without an airline hub.




                                                                                                                   MV/LA consultant has indicated that the FAA is looking at increasing the trigger
                          Change SJC                                                                                                                                                                     FAA: The wind and FAA Order 7110.65 determine the active runway at SJC. In
                                           Trigger when      Trigger South flow operations when wind is at 6       to 10 knots at all airports.
                          operations                                                                                                                                                                     accordance with paragraph 3-5-1 of FAA Order 7110.65, when there is a tailwind of 5
     KK2                  to reduce
                                           greater than 5    knots, or 7 knots, or 8 knots, or 9 knots, or 10      There should be a special study commissioned by the FAA for SJC to determine
                                                                                                                                                                                                         knots or more, SJC Tower must utilize RWY 12. This is the least favorable configuration
                                           knots             knots. (Use highest safe value)                       whether a limit of 6, 7 or more knots could be feasible given SJC's specific runway
                          noise                                                                                                                                                                          for both the Tower and TRACON and it is not utilized more than is necessary.
                                                                                                                   length and other constraints.

                          Change SJC
                                                             Monitor noise North, East and West of the airport
                          operations
         LL               to reduce
                                           Monitor noise     at various distances from the airport on an ongoing It is essential to understand noise (from monitors)
                                                             basis.
                          noise




5 of 7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5/25/2018
                                                                                                                          Appendix A: Noise Mitigation List from the Ad Hoc Advisory Committee




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 +
                        Prop of




                                                   n
                   n




                                                                                                                                                                                                      Resp JC
                                         Desc vel




                                                                                                                                                              tions




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           tial +
                                                                                                                                                          Ques &
                             osed




                                                                                                                                                                                                          onse
                                             riptio
             estio




                              ge




                                                                                       ils




                                                                                                                                                                                                           rS
                            ory




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         / -- C
                                                                                                                                                                s
                                              Le




                                                                                                                                                           Note
                         Chan




                                                                                   Deta




                                                                                                                                                                                                      FAA o
                       Categ




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Poten
                                         High
         Sugg




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Pros
                                                                                                            This might be a methodology change within the FAA process for review of
                                                                                                            procedure changes.
                       Change FAA                       FAA to change its procedure development process
                                                                                                            Draft flight plates should be reviewed by a team of noise specialists to see if their
                       operations    Stricter rules for to introduce optimization of proposed flight plates
     MM                to reduce     ground noise       for noise, even for changes that are not judged to
                                                                                                            proposals can be further optimized for noise before publishing them for review.
                                                                                                            The Committee heard from an FAA procedure designer that if a procedure is not
                       noise                            be 'significant'.
                                                                                                            at risk of violating FAA noise thresholds, the designers need not optimize for
                                                                                                            noise.



                       Change FAA                                                                                 What Information?
                                     Change when
                       operations                                                                                 How will this impact noise to our residents?
     NN                to reduce
                                     information is    ATC must provides information to pilot sooner.
                                                                                                                  Is a safety consideration - need to keep pilot load light as possible on approach
                                     provided to pilot
                       noise                                                                                      and landing.



                                                                                                                  Use theoretical models and compare computer predicted flight maneuvers with
                       Change FAA                       Model all changes prior to implementation in order        actual flight simulators to align with what pilots are really doing.
                       operations    Model changes      to minimize noise impact on residents. Assume             Ground monitors should be used to validate the simulation predictions.
     OO                to reduce     for noise          varying weather conditions. Ground noise monitors         To understand the real-world noise impact, varying weather conditions must be
                       noise                            should be used to validate the models.                    assumed, particularly given the tight constraints imposed by Precision Based
                                                                                                                  Navigation (PBN).




                                                       Route more SFO arrivals through the BDEGA East
                       Provide SJC   Reduce SFO        over the Bay so that there are fewer BDEGA West
                                                                                                                  Balanced Runway usage is the goal. But the reality is that if a quieter runway is
         PP            with more     BDEGA West        arrivals from the North. If moving SFO traffic
                                                                                                                  free, they should use it.
                       airspace      arrivals into SFO provides more space for SJC, utilize this for
                                                       dispersion purposes.


                                     Route SFO
                                                        Have SERFR South arrivals join DYAMD or fly a
                       Provide SJC   SERFR South                                                                  Could also address the noise problem of SJC BRIXX arrivals since BRIXX altitude
                                                        similar route parallel to and/or above DYAMD. If
     QQ                with more     arrivals over
                                                        moving SFO traffic provides more space for SJC,
                                                                                                                  could be increased because SERFR would no longer be a constraint. BRIXX is a SJC
                       airspace      South East                                                                   arrival route that flies under SERFR.
                                                        utilize this for dispersion purposes.
                                     corner of Bay



                                                        Have SFO oceanic arrivals from the West join
                                                        BDEGA over the ocean West of the Golden Gate
                                                        Bridge rather than use MENLO.
                                     Route SFO West
                                     oceanic arrivals   SJC South Flow would then only compete with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ++ Cost, if done soon after takeoff,
                       Provide SJC   to BDEGA over      BDEGA West arrivals.                                      This is the Golden Gate 7 approach
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 would be almost non-existent.
         RR            with more     ocean and                                                                    Must be done with adequate time to reprogram FMS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -- Last minute changes can impose
                       airspace      change vectors     Vector BDEGA West arrivals to maximize vertical
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 errors.
                                     of BDEGA West      and lateral separations for aircraft flying in opposite
                                     arrivals           directions (BDEGA flights going North and SJC
                                                        flights going South). If moving SFO traffic provides
                                                        more space for SJC, utilize this for dispersion
                                                        purposes.



                       Provide SJC   SJC use SFO     Allow SJC to use some SFO airspace when SFO
                                                                                                         Needs to be coordinated with Nor Cal TRACON.                                                            -- SFO might ask for more of SJC airspace
         SS            with more     space when SFO changes their landing pattern, since SFO flights are
                                                                                                         Need to carefully model all possibilities.                                                              in return
                       airspace      changes pattern at high altitudes when they are close to SJC.




6 of 7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5/25/2018
                                                                                                                       Appendix A: Noise Mitigation List from the Ad Hoc Advisory Committee




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            +
                        Prop of




                                                      n
                   n




                                                                                                                                                                                                    Resp JC
                                            Desc vel




                                                                                                                                                           tions




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      tial +
                                                                                                                                                       Ques &
                             osed




                                                                                                                                                                                                        onse
                                                riptio
             estio




                              ge




                                                                                        ils




                                                                                                                                                                                                         rS
                            ory




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    / -- C
                                                                                                                                                             s
                                                 Le




                                                                                                                                                        Note
                         Chan




                                                                                    Deta




                                                                                                                                                                                                    FAA o
                       Categ




                                                                                                                                                                                                                Poten
                                            High
         Sugg




                                                                                                                                                                                                               Pros
                                                        Create technical working group to study each of the
                                                        proposals in conjunction with the FAA. Present      Roundtable at Cities Association which includes Santa Clara and Santa Cruz
                                       Create technical
         TT            Other
                                       working group
                                                        findings and recommendations during ad hoc          counties. Should it also include Alameda county so cities in the East Bay that
                                                        committee meetings for full discussion and final    currently have SJC traffic are included?
                                                        recommendations.


                                                          Ask the FAA to share what the airlines requested
     UU                Other        Airlines requests
                                                          when they asked for new procedures

                                                      Ask the FAA to share the Environmental
                                    Environmental     Assessment report (data, analyses, and
         VV            Other
                                    Assessment report conclusions) for the changes in the SJC south flow
                                                      procedures

                                                                                                               1) Do some of the SJC south flow arrivals that make their turn over Palo Alto
                                                                                                               come in and out of the SJC Class C airspace? If yes, please specify the order of
                                                                                                               magnitude (% of flights) and whether these flights are reported in some Safety
                                                          Ask the FAA if the SJC south flow flights that are
                                       Vectoring over                                                          Reports.
     WW                Other
                                       Palo Alto
                                                          vectored north to turn over Palo Alto come in and
                                                                                                               2) Does the proximity of the PAO airport create a safety risk for SJC south flow
                                                          out of SJC airspace
                                                                                                               arrivals that make their turns at very low altitudes (at times below 2000 ft) over
                                                                                                               parts of Palo Alto?




7 of 7                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5/25/2018
