            DOCUMENTS IN THIS PACKET INCLUDE:


                LETTERS FROM CITIZENS TO THE
                   MAYOR OR CITY COUNCIL


    RESPONSES FROM STAFF TO LETTERS FROM CITIZENS


        ITEMS FROM MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS


      ITEMS FROM OTHER COMMITTEES AND AGENCIES


ITEMS FROM CITY, COUNTY, STATE, AND REGIONAL AGENCIES




       Prepared for:               9/3/2018
       Document dates: 8/15/2018 – 8/22/2018

                                Set 1
 Note: Documents for every category may not have been received for packet
                      reproduction in a given week.




                                                                      701-32
                                                                            COUNCIL MEETING
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 4:40 PM
                                                                            ✔
                                                                                    08/20/2018
                                                                                Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                          2
Carnahan, David

From:                          John Wiggin <john@napawiggin.com>
Sent:                          Thursday, August 16, 2018 2:49 PM
To:                            Council, City
Subject:                       Council Agenda



Item number 2, mitigation to avert fire danger. YOU CANNOT BE SERIOUS in your effort, for undergrounding
overhead lines is not even mentioned. That is the obvious answer but for some reason never comes up for
serious discussion I assume because of cost. The alternative cost could far exceed the cost to
underground. Overhead wires are the nexus for many of the fires. To ignore this fact is to stick your head in
the sand. I am very disappointed. Thanks




                                                       1
CITY OF
                                                                                      5
PALO
ALTO
TO:           HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL


FROM:         ED SHIKADA, ASSISTANT CITY MANAGER/ UTILITIES GENERAL MANAGER


DATE:         AUGUST 20, 2018

SUBJECT:      SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION FOR AGENDA ITEM 5

This is an informational addendum to assist with discussion of the August 20, 2018 Council Agenda
Item 5 (Adoption of a Resolution Supporting the Objectives of the State Water Resources Control
Board's Bay Delta Plan and a Negotiated Voluntary Settlement of Water Issues on the Tuolumne
River). Last week the State Water Resources Control Board chose not to make a decision on the
Bay Delta Plan at its meeting tomorrow, continuing the ·action to a later date and emphasizing the
value of a voluntary settlement. The letter was based on a request from the California Natural
Resources Agency. Both letters are attached.




Ed Shikada
General Manager I Assistant City Manager
Utilities Department




6053954
                                                                                                                                                  EDMUND G. BROWN JR., Governor
                                                                                                                                           JOHN LAIRD, Secretary for Natural Resources




     August 15, 2018


     Felicia Marcus, Chair
     Steven Moore, Vice-Chair
     Tam M. Doduc, Member
     Dorene D'Adamo, Member
     E. Joaquin Esquivel, Member
     State Water Resources Control Board
     1001 I Street, 24th Floor
     Sacramento, CA 95814

     Re:           August 21, 2018 Meeting, Agenda Item 4: Consideration of a Proposed Resolution
                   to Adopt Amendments to the Water Quality Control Plan for the San Francisco
                   Bay/Sacramento San Joaquin Delta Estuary and Adopt the Final Substitute
                   Environmental Document

     Dear Chair Marcus, Vice-Chair Moore, and Members:

     I write on behalf of my agency and the Departments of Water Resources and Fish and Wildlife
     (Departments) pursuant to the procedures stated in your "Notice of Public Meeting" (July 6,
     2018), p. 3. Specifically, I request that you give the Departments the opportunity to discuss
     information they could present on scientific methods available to evaluate the relative benefits of
     flow and non-flow actions to protect native salmonid fish species in the San Joaquin Basin. We
     request 30 minutes for the presentation. This information bears on adaptive implementation, as
     well as the voluntar)' settlement agreer:nents which the Departments expect to complete and
     submit. SEO Appendix K, pp. 30, 36. Further, we request that the State Water Board exercise
     your authority to continue the meeting beyond August 22, 2018 (Notice, p. 1) so that final board
     action will take place at a future board meeting.

     Thank you for consideration of this request.

     Sincerely,



     cr~dltw&
     Secretary for Natural Resources




      1416 Ninth Street, Suite 1311, Sacramento . CA 95814                               Ph. 916.653.5656               Fax 916.653.8102                http://resources.ca.gov


                         Baldwin Hills Comtrvancy • California Coastal Commission • Cal1fomia Coastal Conmvancy • Ca/iforniaConsetV?o°" Corps • Ca6fom1a Tahoe ConsttVOn<y
Coachtlla Valley Mountains Constrvancy • Colorado River Boord of CaNforrna • ~ta Prottctron Commission • Delta Sttwardship Council • ~rtm•nt of Booting & Wattrways • Department of Conservation
        Department of Fish & Garn• • Dtparrment of Forestry & Firt Protection • Departmtnt of Parks & Rtcrtation • Dtpartmtnt of Rtsourcts Rtcyc6ng and RtcO>fl)' • Dtpartmtnt af Wattr Resources
              ftJ69yResources, Conservation & Dem~nt Comm1Ssion • Nattve Atm'rican Htntage Commission • Sacromento·Sanloaqum ~Ira ConRrvancy • San Dkgo River Conservancy
                      San Francisco Bay Conservation & Dc!velopmtnt Commission • San Gabrkl & Lower Los Angeks Rivers & Mountains ConSttVancy • SanJoaqwn RtverConservancy
                                        Santa Monica Mountains Conservancy • Sierra Nevada Conservancy • State Lands CommiSSlon • Wiidiife Conservation Board
Water Boards
State Water Resources Control Board


   August 15, 2018



   Honorable John Laird                                                                                      VIA U.S. MAIL AND EMAIL
   Secretary for Natural Resources
   California Natural Resources Agency
   1416 Ninth Street, Suite 1311
   Sacramento. CA 95814

   Dear Secretary Laird:

   I have received the request you submitted on behalf of the California Natural Resources
   Agency, Department of Fish and Wildlife, and Department of Water Resources for an
   opportunity to present at next week's board meeting on adaptive implementation and voluntary
   settlement agreements. Your letter also requests that the board defer final action on the item
   As discussed below and after conferring with the Executive Director, both requests are granted.

   Throughout the last two years, board members and staff have repeatedly emphasized that
   voluntary settlement agreements can provide a faster, more durable solution to reasonably
   protect beneficial uses in the Lower San Joaquin River and its tributaries. The pending board
   action recognizes the important of both flow and non-flow actions to enhance the fisheries and
   provides significant flexibility for adaptive implementation. Voluntary settlement agreements
   present the opportunity to make the non-flow elements more concrete and reduce the potential
   water supply impact. I look forward to hearing from the parties involved in the voluntary
   settlement agreement process about their progress in this regard .

   Board staff will issue a revised agenda that makes clear final action will occur at a subsequent
   board meeting. The agenda item next week will provide the final opportunity for comment on the
   staff-proposed action, but final board action on the water quality control plan update will be
   continued to a future board meeting .

   Sincerely.


  \L-~uk: )lL~
   Yelicia Marcus
   Chair




                                         FELICIA MARCUS, CHAIR   I   E1~ 1EEN SoaecK, EXECUTl\11! OIR£CTOR

           1001 I Strff'l. Sacramento. CA 9S814 l MelUnv AcJdrns P 0 Box 100 . Sacr11tnento, CA 95812-01 00   I www waterbOarch ca gov
                                                                                 COUNCIL MEETING
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 10:29 AM
                                                                                  ✔
                                                                                          08/20/2018
                                                                                      Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                                5
Carnahan, David

From:                            W L Martin <wlmartin361@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Thursday, August 16, 2018 10:19 AM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         Comment on Revisions to Bay-Delta Plan Phase 1 SED
Attachments:                     Graph with jobs, water use data, 2010-2016.pdf; Comment on Revisions to Bay-Delta
                                 Plan 8-16-18.pdf


Hello Palo Alto City Council Members,

Please find attached my comments on the revisions to the State Water Resources Control Board’s (SWRCB) revisions to
their final Phase 1 SED. These comments were submitted to the SWRCB on July 26, 2018.

Please also find attached 2 graphs, showing that during the most recent drought, employment grew substantially, both
in absolute terms and in terms of water delivered per employee.

Thank you very much for considering my comments.

William L. Martin
Volunteer, Water Committee, San Francisco Bay Chapter of the Sierra Club
Wlmartin361@gmail.com




                                                          1
August 16, 2018

Palo Alto City Council
250 Hamilton Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94301

RE: Bay-Delta Water Quality Plan Update, Phase 1 Final SED: Comments on Appendix K

Dear Council members,

Thank you for this opportunity to comment on the State Water Resources Control Board’s (SWRCB) final
Supplementary Environmental Document (SED). My name is William L. Martin. I am a volunteer member
of the Sierra Club, specifically on the Water Committee of the San Francisco Bay Chapter.

On page 29 of Appendix K of the final SED, I found the following statement:

“The LSJR flow objectives for February through June shall be implemented by requiring 40 percent of
unimpaired flow, based on a minimum 7-day running average, from each of the Stanislaus, Tuolumne,
and Merced Rivers. This required percentage of unimpaired flow, however, may be adjusted within the
range allowed by the LSJR flow objectives through adaptive methods detailed below.”

Since the SWRCB’s initial published draft in September 2016, the San Francisco Public Utilities
Commission (SFPUC) has been opposed to the new flow requirements in the above quote. For example,
here is a quote from an Opinion piece published in the San Francisco Chronicle in October, 2106:

“Our initial economic analysis of the first iteration of this plan forecast up to 51 percent rationing,
resulting in 140,000 to 188,000 jobs lost in the Bay Area.” Harlan Kelly, Jr., and Nicole Sandkulla, San
Francisco Chronicle, October 9, 2016, p. E7.

In the nearly two-year timeframe since that Opinion piece was published, I, along with many other
concerned citizens, have examined the information the SFPUC has used to justify its opposition to the
SED. Our examination has led to several in-person meetings with SFPUC staff and contractors. Our
overwhelming conclusion: the SFPUC has misled the public, used flawed analysis and reasoning, and
does not represent the views of its customers or its constituents.

This comment letter is my attempt to summarize our research into the shortcomings of the SFPUC’s
arguments in opposition to the flow requirements in the final SED.

1. The socioeconomic study, used to justify the massive job losses in the Oct. 2016 Opinion piece, is
   seriously flawed.

The SFPUC and the Bay Area Water Supply and Conservation Agency (BAWSCA) contracted with The
Brattle Group to produce a socioeconomic study (1) forecasting the job and sales losses that might occur
if a 40% unimpaired flow requirement was implemented.

The analysis assumes that BAWSCA’s water allocation rules are implemented for all levels of rationing,
whereas the rules only apply up to 20% rationing. Any water allocation decisions made beyond the 20%
rationing level must be decided in meetings among the SFPUC and BAWSCA. These meetings will occur
in unknown circumstances at some future time. Any forecasts which relies on some unknown outcome
from these meetings are highly speculative and should be treated as such. Specifically, the statements

                                                     1
about significant job and sales losses in the San Francisco Chronicle Op-Ed from October 9, 2016 are
highly speculative.

The analysis treats all future and forecasted events as equally probable. Using probability analysis allows
us to rank related but uncertain, future events by their likelihood of occurring. This exercise can help us
funnel our scarce resources to projects most in need of attention. One examples where this type of
reasoning could enhance our understanding of uncertain, future events are Tables 5.3-4 in The Brattle
Group’s report of January 2018. A 10% shortage scenario is much more likely to occur than a 60% one,
yet the analysis treats them as equally likely. This is faulty economic reasoning. The much greater
economic damage forecasted at the 60% shortage level is much less likely to occur at all, if ever.
Probability analysis allows us to apply a “discount rate” to that economic damage. That helps us weigh
the importance of actions taken to avoid the 60% shortage scenario. That is, we need to plan ahead for a
10% shortage scenario much more seriously than other scenarios.

In the last drought no SFPUC or BAWSCA allocation rules were applied because water customers
conserved in response to the Governor’s mandate rather than the SFPUC’s. This is a significant fact that
casts substantial doubt on whether or not the modeled results would ever materialize. Note that
Governor’s order required the SFPUC regional water supply area to conserve at a minimum of 8%
reduction vs. water use in 2013, the “base year.” Instead, the Bay Area responded by saving about 23%.
Given the overall success of the Governor’s mandate, it is highly likely that any future Governor would
act the same way. The model ignores this highly probable event.

The Brattle Group’s research concluded that an increase of 1% in the price of water led to an
approximate 0.20% reduction in water use. In economic terms, this represents a slight, negative price
elasticity; that is, a higher price leads to slightly lower consumption. The small effect means that water
pricing is “inelastic,” meaning that price increases have only a small effect on water consumption. The
Brattle Group’s report relies on this research as an important basis for their analysis of socioeconomic
effects. However, as noted in the previous paragraph, Bay Area water consumers responded much more
strongly to the Governor’s mandate to reduce water consumption than they did to price increases. This
fact seriously weakens The Brattle Group’s conclusions. In economic terms, water consumption is highly
elastic when reductions are mandated by the State. Yet The Brattle Group’s report completely ignored
this obvious fact in its analysis, focusing only on price signals.

A second problem with using price increases to measure changes in water consumption: water is not like
other economic goods. Their analysis uses a standard economic theory called “willingness to pay.” This
attempts to measure what water consumers are willing to pay to avoid rationing. The problem with this
reasoning is that, for the vast majority of Bay Area water consumers, there is no “price” which they can
pay to get more water during a serious drought. Unless a household is wealthy enough to buy a water
truck or a large tank and have it installed on their property and regularly refilled, they simply can’t buy
more water in a true rationing scenario. No Bay Area water consumer has a choice of water provider. No
Bay Area water consumer has the ability to negotiate for a better price. These facts illustrate the flawed
reasoning that underlies The Brattle Group’s report.

The Brattle Group’s report did not consider any mitigating actions which the SFPUC or BAWSCA might
make in response to drought conditions. For example, the various water agencies that make up BAWSCA

                                                    2
are allowed as part of their contractual agreements to transfer water among themselves. These
potential transfers could reduce the negative socioeconomic effects of water rationing by allowing those
agencies with more water to transfer that excess to other agencies as necessary (2). Also, as the SWRCB
notes in Appendix L of the final Phase 1 SED, the SFPUC could purchase water the Modesto or Turlock
Irrigation Districts in a serious drought scenario. These types of purchases have happened in the past,
and therefore could have been modeled in The Brattle Group’s report, but they failed to do so.

The Brattle Group’s report assumes the SFPUC's 8.5 year drought planning model continues. This model
is 2.5 years longer than any drought the SFPUC has experienced. While it is good to be prepared for an
extended drought, preparing for a drought 40% longer than the worst drought experienced seems
excessive particularly if the SFPUC is unwilling to mitigate the environmental impact of such a long
drought model. If the 8.5 year drought model were reduced even modestly, it would have a substantial
impact on the level of water cutbacks and adverse economic analysis. In this regard, Appendix L in the
Final Phase 1 SED released by the SWRCB only addresses the 6 year drought incurred in the late 1980s-
early 1990s period. The SED pointedly ignores the SFPUC’s ‘design drought’ in their response.

2. The SFPUC’s opposition does not represent the views or values of its water customers.

In the June 2016 election, Bay Area voters passed Measure AA, voting 70% in favor of a parcel tax to
fund restoration projects for San Francisco Bay. That’s over a million votes to fund approximately $500
million worth of restoration projects. 77% of San Francisco voters approved Measure AA. Increased
flows through the Delta will enhance the success and viability of these projects, yet the SFPUC opposes
them.

A recent survey (3) conducted in May 2018 shows that San Francisco’s strong commitment to
environmental values has not changed in the past two years. Among other results, the survey shows
that 93% conserved water during the most recent drought, and that for 71% of those who conserved,
concerns about the environment played a major role.

Thank you. Please consider these points whenever the SFPUC or BAWSCA respond to Appendix K of the
final SED.

William L. Martin
San Francisco, CA
Wlmartin361@gmail.com

(1). “Socioeconomic Impacts of Water Shortages Within the Hetch Hetchy Regional Water System
Service Area”, prepared by David L. Sunding, Ph.D., January 19, 2018.

I am unable to find a URL for the above document. Please contact me at wlmartin361@gmail.com if you
need a copy.

(2)."Coordinating water conservation efforts through tradable credits: A proof of concept for drought
response in the San Francisco Bay area”

https://agupubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/2017WR020636

(3). Please use the URL below to access the full survey results:


                                                     3
https://www.tuolumne.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/07/1805-SFV-Final-Report-PDF-06-29-18.pdf




                                              4
                           SFPUC Water Deliveries and Two-County Employment, 2010-2016
230,000,000                                                                                                                          1,150,000




220,000,000                                                                                               Total gain of 27%          1,100,000




210,000,000                                                                                                                          1,050,000




200,000,000                                                                                                                          1,000,000




190,000,000                                                                                                                          950,000




180,000,000
                                                                                                  Total drop                         900,000
                                                                                                  of 23%
170,000,000                                                                                                                          850,000




160,000,000                                                                                                                          800,000
                    2010                2011                2012                2013               2014           2015        2016

      Orange Line: SFPUC Water Enterprise Sales, Fiscal Years ending June 30*.
      Blue Line: Total Employment for San Francisco and San Mateo Counties, by calendar year

      *SFPUC provides 100% of SF water deliveries, lower percentage for San Mateo
      Sources: SFPUC Annual Reports; California Department of Transportation Economic Forecasts
                    SFPUC Water Enterprise, Gallons/day delivered per employee
 280



 260



 240



 220



 200



 180

                                                                                                  Total drop
 160
                                                                                                  of 39%
 140



 120



 100
             2010               2011                2012               2013                2014                2015               2016


This graph uses the same data from the previous slide. The line was calculated by dividing total water deliveries by total two-county
employment for each year.
Why is the information on the previous two slides important?

“Our initial economic analysis of the first iteration of this plan
forecast up to 51 percent rationing, resulting in 140,000 to 188,000
jobs lost in the Bay Area.” Harlan Kelly, Jr., and Nicole Sandkulla,
San Francisco Chronicle, October 9, 2016, p. E7.

 "…significant annual job losses are predicted under all RWS
[Regional Water System] supply reduction scenarios…“
“Socioeconomic Impacts of Water Shortages within the Hetch
Hetchy Regional Water System Service Area,” David L. Sunding,
Ph.D., author. January 19, 2018. Executive Summary, p. ix.
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 11:12 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Peter Drekmeier <peter@tuolumne.org>
Sent:                            Thursday, August 16, 2018 10:58 AM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         Item 5 - Bay Delta Plan
Attachments:                     TRT Comment Letter on Final SED.pdf



Dear Mayor Kniss and Council Members:

I write regarding Item 5 on Monday’s Council agenda dealing with the Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan.

I find the staff report to be extremely biased — only including the BAWSCA/SFPUC perspective, which we
(Tuolumne River Trust) can demonstrate is misleading and erroneous. The fact that staff placed this item on the
consent calendar suggests a misread of the Palo Alto community. Please pull this item for a proper discussion
so we can dig into the facts and analyses for informed decision-making.

The staff report focuses on two main things: 1) negotiated voluntary settlements, and 2) the SFPUC Alternative.

I have personally been involved in voluntary settlement negotiations with the SFPUC, BAWSCA and others
starting four years ago. This is not a new concept. Our discussions have been covered by a confidentiality
agreement, so I cannot provide details, but the fact that four years have passed without much progress should
tell you something. At this point, this is just a stall tactic.

Regarding the SFPUC Alternative, I attach TRT’s comments to the State Water Board. Their plan simply won’t
work in the absence of adequate flows. For example, floodplain habitat, which is critical for juvenile salmon
and rearing, could be improved, but if it doesn’t inundate, it’s useless. The approach proposed by the SFPUC
has been tried since 1995, and in that time period environmental conditions have only gotten worse.

The State Water Board has proposed adaptive management, which means we learn and adjust as we go. If
measures in the SFPUC Alternative are successful at achieving goals and objectives, than flow requirements
would be reduced. If the SFPUC is truly confident that its alternative will work, it seems they should embrace
this process. They haven't. They simply want a check list (adding spawning gravel, planting trees, attempting
to control invasive species, installing a barrier weir, etc.), and if these measures don’t work, too bad, they met
their obligations. This is unacceptable.

We can continue to have a thriving economy while also improving the Tuolumne and Bay-Delta ecosystems. If
you haven’t had a chance to view our 8-minute video, I encourage you to do so in advance of Monday’s
meeting — https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pL_INODOxsI&feature=youtu.be
We have shared our video with staff and provided an in-person presentation, yet not a single one of
our points made it into the staff report. This is extremely disappointing.


Thank you for the opportunity to comment.


-Peter Drekmeier

                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 11:12 AM

-----------------------
Peter Drekmeier
Policy Director
Tuolumne River Trust
peter@tuolumne.org
(415) 882-7252




                                                     2
                            July 26, 2018
OFFICES
57 Post Street, Suite 711
San Francisco, CA 94104     Felicia Marcus, Chair
 (415) 882-7252             State Water Resources Control Board
829 Thirteenth Street       1001 I Street, 24th Floor
Modesto, CA 95354
(209) 236-0330              Sacramento, CA 95814
67 Linoberg Street
Sonora, CA 95370            Re: Comment Letter – Revisions to Proposed Bay-Delta Plan Amendments
(209) 588-8636

www.tuolumne.org            Dear Chair Marcus:

BOARD MEMBERS               Thank you for the opportunity to comment on the final SED for Phase 1 of the
John Nimmons , Chair        Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan. The Tuolumne River Trust agrees with the
Harrison “Hap” Dunning,
 Vice Chair                 State Water Board’s approach of basing instream flow requirements on a
Camille King, Secretary
John Kreiter, Treasurer
                            percentage of unimpaired flow. In fact, contrary to its public position on the Bay
Eric Heitz,                 Delta Plan, The San Francisco Public Utilities Commission (SFPUC) embraces this
 Chair Emeritus
Susan Stern, Imm. Past      approach in its Water Enterprise Environmental Stewardship Policy:
 Chair
Cindy Charles
Kerstyn Crumb                   It is our policy to operate the water system in a manner that protects and
Bob Hackamack
Bill Maher                      restores native fish and wildlife downstream of our dams and water
Len Materman                    diversions, within reservoirs, and on our watershed lands. Releases from
Marty McDonnell
Eric Riemer                     reservoirs will (consistent with our mission described above, existing
Sue Ellen Ritchey
                                agreements, and applicable state and federal laws), mimic the variation of
                                the seasonal hydrology (e.g., magnitude, timing, duration, and frequency) of
ADVISORS
John Amodio                     their corresponding watersheds in order to sustain the aquatic and riparian
Abigail Blodgett                ecosystems upon which these native fish and wildlife species depend.1
Karyn Bryant
Sally Chenault
Ann Clark, Ph.D.
William Collins
                            We believe it was disingenuous of the SFPUC to have submitted an alternative
Eddie Corwin                proposal to the State Water Board along with its comments on the Draft SED for
Joe Daly
Heather Dempsey             the Bay Delta Plan that proposed a different approach to instream flows.
Tim Eichenberg
R Adm. James B
 Greene, Jr, USN (ret.)     The SFPUC Alternative to promote the expansion of fall-run Chinook salmon and
Chris Guptill
Samuel A. Harned            Oncorhynchus mykiss populations in the lower Tuolumne River while maintaining
Noah Hughes                 water supply reliability (submitted on March 16, 2017) focuses almost exclusively
Brian Korpics
Cecily Majerus              on non-flow measures, such as habitat restoration and predator control, and
Homero Mejia
Gerald Meral, Ph.D.
                            fails to acknowledge that the Tuolumne’s instream flows are currently
Amy Meyer                   inadequate to: 1) maintain water quality conditions associated with cold-water
Jenna Olsen
Jennifer Pierce             fisheries, 2) inundate off-channel, floodplain habitat that is critical to rearing and
Richard Roos-Collins
Jon Rosenfield, Ph.D.
                            outmigration of juvenile fish, 3) encourage growth of native streamside riparian
Norwood Scott               vegetation, including cottonwoods; 4) repress invasions of the Tuolumne River
Ron Stork
Patricia Sullivan
Steve Welch
                            1
Holly Welles, Ph.D.          SFPUC Water Enterprise Environmental Stewardship Policy –
Bart Westcott
Jennifer White, Ph.D.       http://sfwater.org/index.aspx?page=181
John Woolard
by non-native species such as bass and water hyacinth; and 5) improve water quality conditions
in the lower San Joaquin River and southern Delta.

Adequate flows are necessary to increase fish incubation and migration success via improved
water temperatures, dissolved oxygen (including intra-gravel conditions, which are negatively
impacted by sediments deposited in low-flow conditions) and other water quality parameters,
as well as by increasing inundation of key rearing habitats. The net result of providing adequate
flows in the Tuolumne River will be to restore a functioning river ecosystem in which native fish
are favored over non-native predators.

History has shown that non-flow measures, in the absence of sufficient instream flow, are
destined to fail. In 1995, the SFPUC and Modesto and Turlock Irrigation Districts entered into a
Settlement Agreement with many of the parties that remain interested in the health of the
Tuolumne River today, including the US Fish and Wildlife Service, the California Department of
Fish and Game (now Dept. of Fish and Wildlife), and a number of NGOs. The 1995 Settlement
Agreement arose out of Article 37 of the original 1964 license for the Don Pedro Project issued
by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (then the Federal Power Commission) which
required that dam releases and operations be modified upon the recommendation of the
California Department of Fish and Game after the first 20 years of operation of the Don Pedro
Project in order to maintain the salmon fishery.

The 1995 Settlement Agreement’s three objectives for the recovery of Tuolumne River Chinook
salmon were to: 1) increase naturally occurring salmon populations, 2) protect any remaining
genetic distinction, and 3) increase salmon habitat in the Tuolumne River. The basic approach
of Agreement was to rely heavily on non-flow measures, in particular predator habitat
reduction projects, to improve the Chinook salmon run. While the Agreement did include a
small increase in flows, the increase was insignificant.

Despite the best efforts of the Irrigation Districts and others to improve habitat in the river for
salmon, the fall run Chinook salmon population has actually decreased since 1995. In short, the
1995 Settlement Agreement failed to meet its goal of recovery of Tuolumne River Chinook
salmon. It failed to increase naturally occurring salmon populations, and it failed to protect any
remaining genetic distinction. And even though there was a focus on increasing salmon habitat,
it failed in many respects to do that as well. We believe the primary focus on physical habitat
manipulations, with a much smaller emphasis on flow measures, is the primary reason for this
failure.

The 1995 Settlement Agreement also had a significant focus on reducing predators and
predator habitat, and provides a good lesson in misplaced priorities. The Special Run Pool (SRP)
9 project was designed to reduce predator habitat by filling in an old in-channel gravel pit that
had become excellent habitat for predator fish, primarily large-mouth bass. After expending
approximately $2.8 million, the project failed to reduce predator habitat. In fact, by the
Districts’ own admission, the project simply exchanged one non-native predator (largemouth



                                                                                                   2
bass) with another (smallmouth bass).

The Districts’ post-project monitoring report was very clear about the impact of high flows in
affecting predator habitat. Here is an example of what the report had to say about flows and
predator habitat:

   During extremely wet years, high flows can flush largemouth bass out of a stream, but
   typically a sufficient number of adults can find shelter in flooded areas to repopulate the
   stream during lower flow conditions (Moyle 2002). During the years following the flood,
   largemouth bass abundance was controlled by spring and summer flow conditions that
   were unfavorable for reproduction. Largemouth bass require low water velocities and warm
   water temperatures to reproduce. (Moyle 2002, Swingle and Smith 1950, Harlan and
   Speaker 1956, Mraz 1964, Clugston 1966, Allan and Romero 1975, all as cited in Stuber et al
   1982) (p 130).

Unfortunately, despite the many lessons we have learned through the implementation of the
actions included in the 1995 Settlement Agreement (and similar habitat-centric approaches
throughout the Central Valley, such as Calfed and CVPIA/AFRP), the SFPUC Alternative to the
State Water Board Plan continues to emphasize the same myopic approach. Indeed, the flow-
related aspects of the SFPUC Alternative are in some respects regressive from the current flow
schedule. Very simply, we believe the SFPUC Alternative is doomed to fail and would generally
be a misuse of taxpayer and ratepayer money, as well as a violation of the SFPUC’s (and
Modesto and Turlock Irrigation Districts’) responsibility to protect the public trust.

We believe the fundamental premise of the SFPUC Alternative is flawed for several reasons.
First, there is no unifying ecological principle that guides the SFPUC Alternative. Rather, the
SFPUC Alternative attempts to replace the functions of flowing water (e.g., sediment
mobilization, invasive species control, recruitment of desirable native riparian vegetation and
inundation of rearing habitat) with costly, manual actions, which the SFPUC asserts will lead to
the expansion of salmon and steelhead populations, despite evidence to the contrary. As we
describe above, a similar approach was taken in the 1995 Settlement Agreement that did not
result in increased numbers of native fish species.

As described in the Recovery Plan for the Evolutionary Significant Units of Sacramento River
Winter-Run Chinook Salmon and Central Valley Spring-Run Chinook Salmon and the Distinct
Population Segment of California Central Valley Steelhead (NMFS 201x), a salmon and
steelhead recovery plan must be based on two key salmonid conservation principles.

First, is that functioning, diverse, and interconnected habitats are necessary for a species to be
viable. Put simply, the full ecosystem needs to be restored, not just a limited set of specific
elements that are part of the ecosystem. Salmon and steelhead recovery cannot be achieved
without providing sufficient habitat throughout the full spawning, rearing and migratory route.
The SFPUC Alternative’s proposed actions to modify spawning and in-channel rearing habitat



                                                                                                     3
are very limited geographically, and they ignore the need for habitat improvements in the
Tuolumne River corridor and downstream as far as the Delta.

Second, a successful restoration strategy must address the four attributes of fish species
viability (spatial structure, diversity, productivity and abundance) as outlined in McElhany et al.
(2000). The Recovery Plan for the Evolutionary Significant Units of Sacramento River Winter-
Run Chinook Salmon and Central Valley Spring-Run Chinook Salmon and the Distinct Population
Segment of California Central Valley Steelhead (2014) summarizes these attributes:

   Abundance and population growth rate are self-explanatory parameters that are clearly
   important to species and population viability, while spatial structure and diversity are just
   as important but less intuitive. Spatial structure refers to the arrangement of populations
   across the landscape, the distribution of spawners within a population, and the processes
   that produce these patterns. Species with a restricted spatial distribution and few spawning
   areas are at a higher risk of extinction from catastrophic environmental events (e.g., a single
   landslide) than are species with more widespread and complex spatial structure. Species or
   population diversity concerns the phenotypic (morphology, behavior, and life-history traits)
   and genetic characteristics of populations. Phenotypic diversity allows more populations to
   use a wider array of environments and protects populations against short-term temporal
   and spatial environmental changes. Genetic diversity, on the other hand, provides
   populations with the ability to survive long-term changes in the environment. It is the
   combination of phenotypic and genetic diversity expressed in a natural setting that provides
   populations with the ability to adapt to long-term changes (McElhany et al. 2000).

The SFPUC Alternative provides no targets for population abundance, growth rate or
phenotypic/genetic diversity. Rather, the proposal provides an estimate of what the biological
outputs of its approach will be, rather than establishing biological goals at the outset and
designing conservation actions in support of achieving those goals. This approach is backward.
Biological targets that comply with and articulate existing City, State and Federal policies should
be defined in specific, measureable, achievable, relevant and time bound (SMART) terms in
order to set the stage for the overall scope and specifics of recovery actions. These targets must
be the driving force behind the SFPUC’s alternative plan to meet its obligations under the Clean
Water Act, Porter-Cologne Act, Federal and State Endangered Species Acts and the Public Trust
Doctrine.

As to spatial structure, the SFPUC Alternative relies heavily on two stages of salmonid life cycle
(spawning and egg incubation) and a portion of a third stage (juvenile migration). By restricting
actions to benefit spawning and egg incubation habitat, and only a portion of juvenile migration
habitat (in-channel rearing habitat above RM 26), the SFPUC Alternative misses opportunities
to improve periodically inundated habitat (loosely “floodplains”) throughout the Tuolumne
River and into the lower San Joaquin River. Floodplain habitat has been demonstrated to
strongly support growth of juvenile salmonids and the spawning and incubation success of
other native fish species such as Sacramento splittail. Along the Tuolumne, there is poor



                                                                                                  4
channel-floodplain connectivity; thus, there is a significant opportunity to improve productivity
of several fisheries that has been completely omitted from the SFPUC proposal. Any
improvements to the system that may be achieved upstream are likely to be undermined unless
improvements are made along downstream portions of the River as well.

Different stretches of floodplain support different life stages of fish species. Additionally,
floodplain distribution supports life history diversity, survival in different water year types, and
successful outmigration. We believe the proposal should focus not just on habitat quality, but
also on the extent and distribution of frequently inundated floodplain habitat needed to
support agreed upon fish populations.

Finally, in the case of Chinook salmon, the SFPUC Alternative is focused almost exclusively on
parr production, rather than providing for successful migration for a range of life history types,
including fry, parr and smolts. Restricting the plan to focus primarily on successful parr
outmigration will limit the success of the population over the long-run because the lack of
phenotypic diversity in migrating salmon will make the population more susceptible to
environmental stressors and future environmental changes. Rather than focusing on a single
life-history strategy, it is imperative to provide an outmigration environment that improves
survival of fry, parr and smolts.

We have reviewed initial results of floodplain modeling conducted to date. Although San
Francisco contends there is sufficient rearing habitat, we strongly disagree. Our floodplain
analysis indicates an inadequate amount or rearing habitat. The SFPUC appears to be confusing
rearing “habitat” in the main stem with off-channel rearing habitat needs. Not only are these
two different types of habitat, but the SFPUC’s finding of abundant rearing “habitat” only
confirms that the mainstem is a warm, shallow, slow moving stream that favors predators over
native species and provides inadequate migratory habitat for salmonids and other migratory
fishes.

A more comprehensive approach to floodplain enhancement and management is needed,
including reaches of the lower Tuolumne River below Geer Road. Different reaches of
floodplain support different life stages of fish species. Functional floodplain habitat can be
restored through flow modifications, topographic modifications, or a combination of both.

We believe the SFPUC’s focus on manual predator suppression is a severe weakness of their
proposal. There are significant environmental conditions (e.g., warm water temperatures,
water velocity, etc.) that support a predator population that also need to be addressed.
Additionally, we would prioritize investments that reduce predation pressure while
simultaneously addressing other critical stressors (e.g., restoration of floodplain habitat,
temperature management, etc.). We want to avoid a situation in which resources are expended
without producing measurable results, especially considering that significant resources will be
required for successful floodplain restoration.




                                                                                                       5
The reality is that the presence of abundant non-native predators is a symptom, not a cause, of
the malfunctioning Tuolumne River environment. The manual predator suppression program is
a time- and money-intensive strategy that is unlikely to work. Similar strategies (that are much
more intensive and better funded) have completely failed in the Pacific Northwest, where the
Federal government has spent hundreds of millions of dollars on a bounty program for native
predators, and scaring away nesting terns and fish-eating marine mammals. Furthermore,
predator removal has potential downsides. For example, removing large predatory fish can
actually cause an increase in smaller predators. As described above, this is exactly what
happened at the SRP 9 project where smallmouth bass replaced largemouth bass.

Existing flow schedules for the Tuolumne amount to approximately 20% of unimpaired flow
being released for environmental purposes. The SFPUC Alternative proposes minor changes to
these schedules, and in wetter years actually reduces the quantity of water released from
300,923 acre-feet under existing rules to an estimated 286,867 acre-feet under the SFPUC
Alternative. The bottom line is that the SFPUC Alternative is far below the 60% of unimpaired
flow the Water Board’s flow criteria study determined would be necessary to protect fish
species in the San Joaquin River basin. It will not achieve the objectives we are pursuing, and
likely will not even provide incremental benefits.

Finally, while the SFPUC Alternative seeks to promote the expansion of fall-run Chinook salmon
and O. mykiss populations in the lower Tuolumne, the three San Joaquin tributaries and
associated water purveyors are responsible not only for protecting water quality in the San
Joaquin tributaries, but also meaningful contributions to protecting water quality in the lower
San Joaquin River and the Delta. Nothing in the SFPUC proposal addresses any obligation to
maintain water quality downstream, and thus its scope is too narrow.

In summary, the Tuolumne River Trust agrees with the State Water Board’s approach of basing
instream flow requirements on a percentage of unimpaired flow. We believe at least 50% of
unimpaired flow should be required between February and June. We also agree with the Water
Board that a successful restoration plan will include both flow and non-flow elements. The
SFPUC and Modesto and Turlock Irrigation Districts will have many opportunities to test their
proposed measures for success. We look forward to working with them to identify the best
ways to truly restore the Tuolumne River, and are certain higher flows will play a major role in
our success.

Thank you for the opportunity to comment.

Sincerely,



Patrick Koepele
Executive Director




                                                                                                  6
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:36 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Jan Altman <jan.a@sbcglobal.net>
Sent:                            Thursday, August 16, 2018 11:23 AM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan



I strongly encourage you to pull this item from the consent calendar for a proper public discussion. It needs to
be debated at this Monday's meeting!


I also encourage you to support the State Water Board’s proposal, which aims to achieve the co-equal goals of
ensuring a reliable water supply AND protecting and restoring the environment. We can have both! Please see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pL_INODOxsI&feature=youtu.be

This matter is too important for the sake of all Palo Altans. Please consider it carefully!

Thank you,
Jan Altman
Resident 20+ years




                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:36 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                                  Nancy Lowe <nancymcdonaldlowe@gmail.com>
Sent:                                  Thursday, August 16, 2018 11:36 AM
To:                                    Council, City; Drekmeier, Peter
Subject:                               Please adopt a position aligned with the Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan


City Council:

Please pull the item which is in opposition to the Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan from the consent calendar to allow a proper
public discussion of it.

I encourage you to support the State Water Board’s proposal, which aims to achieve the co-equal goals of ensuring a reliable water
supply AND protecting and restoring the environment. We can have both!

Nancy McDonald Lowe
2338 Amherst Street
Palo Alto




                                                                   2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:36 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Geoff Ball <ghball@aol.com>
Sent:                            Thursday, August 16, 2018 11:44 AM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan



Dear Council Members,

Please pull the Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan from the consent calendar this coming Monday
so that it can be properly explored and discussed in a public meeting.

Respectfully yours,

Geoff Ball
Geoff Ball, Ph.D.
Geoff Ball & Associates
315 Bryant Street, Palo Alto, CA 94301
ghball@aol.com, cell: 650-279-9461
www.linkedin.com/in/geoff-ball-5259241




                                                          3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:36 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Sue Purdy Pelosi <sueppr@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Thursday, August 16, 2018 11:47 AM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        Bay Delta water quality control plan



I strongly encourage you to pull the Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan from the consent calendar for
a proper public discussion. Encourage them to support the State Water Board’s proposal, which aims to achieve
the co-equal goals of ensuring a reliable water supply AND protecting and restoring the environment. We can
have both! — https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pL_INODOxsI&feature=youtu.be.

Thank you
Sue Purdy ☮ Pelosi

Be kind whenever possible. It is always possible.
Dalai Lama


https://www.linkedin.com/in/suepurdypelosi/




                                                       4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:36 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Annette Isaacson <annetteisaacson@comcast.net>
Sent:                           Thursday, August 16, 2018 11:47 AM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        please pull this from the consent calendar



Dear City Council Members,



I have worked closely with Peter Drekmeier on several environmental issues. I have found him to be
honest and knowledgeable, so that when he tells me something about water and the environment, I
trust him. He just informed me that you are planning on adopting a position in opposition to the Bay
Delta Water Quality Control Plan.



Please take this item off the consent calendar so that some more public discussion can take
place. Two issues that seem to be important to discuss are the efficacy of voluntary settlement
negotiations that are being promoted by the alternate proposal to the Bay Delta Water Quality
Control Plan and the fact that our climate is changing and

      On average, less than 50% of the freshwater flow from the Central Valley reaches the Bay, and in some
       years, less than 35%. Reduced inflows shifts the size and location of the ecologically-important salinity
       mixing zone, affecting everything from plankton to marine mammals. Between 1975 and 2014, the
       natural unimpaired runoff in the watershed was only low enough to create a “supercritically dry” year
       once, but upstream diversions captured so much runoff during those four decades that the Bay
       experienced“supercritically dry” conditions in 19 years instead of just one.

This is an important issue and deserves to be discussed by the entire council in public.

Sincerely,



Annette Isaacson

2550 Webster St.

Palo Alto, CA 94301




                                                       5
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:36 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           carlin otto <carlinotto@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Thursday, August 16, 2018 12:14 PM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        Pull from Consent Calendar!!!



All of you need to discuss and seek out the facts and public input
about the Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan BEFORE you follow staff recommendation on whether to
support or not support it. Please PULL THIS ITEM FROM THE CONSENT CALENDAR.

Follow this by placing it on your regular agenda which will allow public input about it and allow all of you to
become more knowledgeable about it.

Carlin Otto
231 Whitclem Court
Palo Alto, CA 94306




                                                        6
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:36 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Peter Broadwell <peter@plasm.com>
Sent:                           Thursday, August 16, 2018 12:49 PM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        Please pull item 5 (water policy proposal) from consent calendar



City Council folks -

Please get together and pull item #5 from the upcoming consent calendar.
I support the State Water Board’s proposal that encourages a co-equal approach to balancing water needs of
people and fish (among others).
The staff proposal being on the consent calendar prevents public input on this important issue and could lead
Palo Alto into the undesirable position of helping kill off fish populations.

;;peter - Peter Broadwell, peter@plasm.com - 2325 Cornell Streat, Palo Alto, CA 94306




                                                         7
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:36 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           amyerinadams@gmail.com on behalf of Amy Adams <amy_adams@post.harvard.edu>
Sent:                           Thursday, August 16, 2018 12:56 PM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        monday consent calendar



I urge you to pull the Bay Delta Control Plan discussion off the consent calendar. The staff report is misguided
and needs input from the council. I know there are environmental stewards among you- this issue needs due
diligence!
Please support the State Water Board proposal!

Thanks so much-
Amy Adams

--
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
My email address will sometimes change. Please always use my permanent, forwarding email,
amy_adams@post.harvard.edu




                                                        8
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:36 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                                walter sedriks <sedriks@gmail.com>
Sent:                                Thursday, August 16, 2018 1:05 PM
To:                                  Council, City
Subject:                             Re Adoption of Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan.


Dear Members of the Council,

I strongly urge you to pull the subject item from the consent calendar and allow for a proper public discussion. I would also urge
you to support the State Water Board’s proposal, which aims to achieve the co-equal goals of ensuring a reliable water supply
AND protecting and restoring the environment. We can have both!

Sincerely,

Walter Sedriks

325 Waverley St
Palo Alto




                                                                 9
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:36 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Alice Smith <alice.smith@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Thursday, August 16, 2018 1:14 PM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        Please remove the Delta plan from the consent calendar



Is shocking to have the City Council puts such an important item on the consent calendar when it is so vital to
the Quality of life of the Bay Area




                                                        10
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:36 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Kathryn Johnston <kathryn.johnston@mac.com>
Sent:                             Thursday, August 16, 2018 1:32 PM
To:                               Council, City
Subject:                          Please pull the consent doc about Bay Water Plan


Hello, City Council,

How very chagrined and disappointed was I to hear that there are plans at the August 20th meeting to disavow the Bay
Water Plan.

This measure should not be rushed through without a lot more City Council and community discussion.

I do not think staff recommendations represent Palo Alto’s best, or most forward‐ looking self.

Kathryn Johnston
325 Channing Ave apt 301
Palo Alto




                                                           11
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:36 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Dave Warner <dwar11@gmail.com>
Sent:                         Thursday, August 16, 2018 11:39 AM
To:                           Council, City
Subject:                      Please support Bay Delta Plan; Misleading information must have led to City Manager's
                              Report
Attachments:                  Dave Warner letter to City Council 2018-08-16.pdf



Thank you for serving on our city council. Please see attached letter.




                                                       1
                                                                                 Please Contact the Clerk’s Office
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:37 PM                          to View Additional Pages,
                                                                                 Attachments, or Images Related
Carnahan, David                                                                          to this Document


From:                            Hank Edson <hank.edson@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Thursday, August 16, 2018 12:38 PM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan
Attachments:                     TRT Comment Letter on Final SED.pdf



Dear City Council,

Please pull the agenda item concerning the council's position on the Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan from
the consent calendar and make sure this item has proper public discussion. I know many of my neighbors are
very concerned about the city's commitment to the ecological health and well being of the Bay Area
watershed. The SFPUC alternative, despite unsubstantiated claims that more fish will live with less water,
simply applies the same inadequate approach taken since 1995, during which time the salmon population in the
Tuolome has plummeted. See attached. If left unaddressed, the loss of this population will have a serious
ecological impact on our entire region. We must stop allowing ourselves to look past the consequences of lazy
policy decisions.

The council should not underestimate the concern of its constituents both that proper procedures and due
diligence be followed in the way it adopts its position on issues of significant ecological impact and its over all
commitment to protect the environment. Adopting this position without a proper public discussion would be a
serious breach of your duty to your constituents.

Sincerely,

Hank Edson




                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:38 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Diane McCoy <dianemccoy10@comcast.net>
Sent:                          Thursday, August 16, 2018 1:19 PM
To:                            Council, City
Subject:                       Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan
Attachments:                   The San Francisco Bay-Delta An Ecosystem In Crisis - YouTube.webarchive LINK



Dear Palo Alto City Council Members,
I would like to request that you do not adopt the position being proposed this coming Monday night, August 20,
to oppose the Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan.
Please pull this item from the calendar until a proper public discussion can occur.
I encourage you to support the State Water Board’s proposal which aims to achieve the co-equal goals of
ensuring a reliable water supply and
protect and restore the environment.

Again, please do not adopt the position of opposing the Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan.

Thank you for your time and consideration.

Sincerely,
Diane McCoy
Palo Alto Resident
763 Greer Road




                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:42 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                            jack <jack@mortoncpa.com>
Sent:                            Thursday, August 16, 2018 1:42 PM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         Bay Water Quality Plan


Honorable Members of Council: Surely you all agree that the community should have a voice in whether the City should
wholeheartedly support the Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan. So Monday evening the full Council will rise together
to remove the Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan item from the consent calendar and allow us all to remind you that
Palo Alto was one of the first communities to care passionately about the quality of the Bay and the Delta.
Former Vice Mayor Jack Morton




                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 4:34 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Paul Heft <paulheft@comcast.net>
Sent:                         Thursday, August 16, 2018 2:36 PM
To:                           Council, City
Subject:                      Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan



Dear councilmembers, Peter Drekmeier alerted me to his concern regarding the Bay Delta
Water Quality Control Plan. I hope you will carefully consider his opposition to the staff
recommendation, because I believe that protecting and restoring the environment is a critical
goal—even if that means less water available for our use.

Thanks.

Sincerely,

Paul Heft
2550 Webster St.
Palo Alto, CA 94301




                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 4:34 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Stepheny <stepheny@earthlink.net>
Sent:                             Thursday, August 16, 2018 4:32 PM
To:                               Council, City
Subject:                          Vote for State Water Board Proposal


Please do the responsible thing and vote for the State Water Board Proposal. The staff recommendation on this
proposal takes us in the wrong direction. We need to follow the 2009 Delta Reform Act updated guidelines, as well as
the recommendation of the Tuolumne River Trust.

Thank you.
Stepheny McGraw
3303 Thomas Drive
94303




                                                          2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 5:27 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                              pol1@rosenblums.us
Sent:                              Thursday, August 16, 2018 4:35 PM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           Agenda of August 20, 2018


Dear Councilmembers:
I respectfully request that you withdraw item 5 from the consent calendar of the August 20 council meeting. The staff
position is not in accord with the environmental principles that Palo Altans hold dear in that it sacrifices Tuolumne River
water flows to save water for a drought of biblical proportions that will not occur. I encourage you to support the State
Water Board’s proposal, which aims to achieve the co‐equal goals of ensuring a reliable water supply and protecting
and restoring the environment. A subject of this importance needs to be discussed by the Council with appropriate
citizen feedback.
Dr. Stephen Rosenblum
Santa Rita Avenue




                                                             1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 5:27 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Katie Bramlett <paloaltokatie@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Thursday, August 16, 2018 4:47 PM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         We need to talk...


about the Bay Delta Plan.
Please pull the item from the consent calendar for a proper public discussion. I encourage you to support the State
Water Board’s proposal, which aims to achieve the co-equal goals of ensuring a reliable water supply AND
protecting and restoring the environment.
Palo Alto has a strong, proud history of standing on the side of ecological conservation! You are in a position to
make a difference! Please protect our environment.
Katie Bramlett




                                                         2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 5:27 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Shannon Rose McEntee <shannonrmcentee@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Thursday, August 16, 2018 4:46 PM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        Bay Area Water Quality Control Plan



Dear City Council Members,

I am extremely dismayed to learn that Palo Alto City staff are encouraging the Council to adopt a position in
opposition to the Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan. I just learned that City staff have placed this item on
the consent calendar for Monday's City Council meeting which means it could be approved WITHOUT any
debate -- unless three Council members pull it for discussion.

I understand that the resolution reads if it were written by BAWSCA and it promotes "negotiated voluntary
settlements." The State has been facilitating voluntary settlement negotiations for well over a year and they've
failed miserably because the water agencies that are opposed to the Plan have refused to budge. Knowledgeable
Palo Alto residents believe this City report is blatantly political and misleading.

Please pull this item from the consent calendar so it can have a proper public discussion. Please support the
State Water Board's proposal, which aims to achieve the co-equal goals of ensuring a reliable water supply
AND protecting and restoring the environment.

NOTHING is more important than protecting the integrity of our water supplies and our environment.

Sincerely,

Shannon Rose McEntee
410 Sheridan Ave., #216
Palo Alto, CA 94306




                                                        3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:16 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Virginia Tincher <vatincher@gmail.com>
Sent:                             Thursday, August 16, 2018 8:46 PM
To:                               Council, City
Subject:                          Monday, August 20 City Council Meeting - Remove Item 5 from the consent calendar


Dear City Council,

Please remove Item 5 regarding the Bay Delta Water Quality Plan from the consent calendar and have a thorough public
discussion before making your decision.

Personally I urge the council to support the State Water Board’s proposal, which aims to achieve the co‐equal goals of
ensuring a reliable water supply AND protecting and restoring the environment. This is a critical time for our local
environment. The proposal to increase the unimpaired flow of the lower San Joaquin river is really a part of building
San Francisco Bay resiliency. Healthy wetlands are the focus of most Bay Area communities through multiple projects
many of which the City of Palo Alto already support.

The City Council has an opportunity which will not happen again for years to address San Francisco Bay resiliency while
maintaining an adequate water supply. Please take the time to carefully review the information in the updated plan and
presented by others.

Regards,
Virginia Tincher
879 Garland Drive
Palo Alto, CA 94303




                                                            1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:16 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Cheryl Lilienstein <clilienstein@me.com>
Sent:                           Thursday, August 16, 2018 7:36 PM
To:                             Council, City
Cc:                             Supervisor Simitian
Subject:                        Please withdraw "Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan" from Palo Alto consent
                                calendar



Dear City Council,
With an abundance of love and gratitude, I am asking for consideration for my first grandchild, who I hope will
grow up in a beautiful California of rivers, fish, and wildlife.




I have CC’d Supervisor Simitian as he authored the 2009 Delta Reform Act, which established the Senate’s co-
equal goals and initiated the current update to the Bay Delta Plan, which should be SUPPORTED.

So, I am asking you to REMOVE the item from the consent calendar in opposition to the Bay Delta Water
Quality Control Plan. Via the consent calendar, staff is recommending opposition and this is wrong. The Plan is
a good one, and our city should SUPPORT it.

Opposing this plan means letting the population of fish and wildlife decline, and ultimately, fail. Do you think
the citizens of Palo Alto would be happy when they found out that staff slipped this past the council? Do you
want the council to be seen as being on the side of developers and against the environment? Surely no.

What I love most about California is the beauty of the rivers and the wildlife. NOT SUPPORTING the Bay
Delta Water Quality Control Plan sends the message that Palo Alto cares more about development than our
wilderness heritage. So I’m writing to ask you to pass a motion in SUPPORT of the BDWQCP. We need to
support existing agreements of uninpeded flows in order to maintain the wildlife in and around the rivers. It is
unwise — not to mention heartbreaking— to entitle the taking of MORE water from rivers for the sake of
development and agribusiness when it’s not even necessary.
                                                         2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:16 AM

I hope this state will be a beautiful abundant land for our grandchildren, not just an economic engine with no
soul.
Please be responsible towards the natural world that sustains the health of us all.

Sincerely,
Cheryl Lilienstein
Palo Alto, California




                                                        3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:16 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Susan Brown <einworbs@gmail.com>
Sent:                          Thursday, August 16, 2018 9:54 PM
To:                            Council, City
Subject:                       Please withdraw "Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan" from Palo Alto consent
                               calendar



The Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan is a good plan and should be supported. I cannot fathom why the
staff is recommending to oppose this plan.

Please support the Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan.


--
Susan Brown
Palo Alto
einworbs@gmail.com




                                                        4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:16 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                              terryt1011@aol.com
Sent:                              Friday, August 17, 2018 3:56 AM
To:                                katherine.cushing@sjsu.edu
Cc:                                Council, City
Subject:                           Re: ALERT: Terrible P.A. Staff Recommendation


Katherine-

please do write today. see below, but the e-mail is easy. it is "city.council@cityofpaloalto.org". see the directions below.

to make the printed Council packet, it needs to be received by 3 p.m. today, Friday.

I really appreciate your help!


Terry


 1) Please attend Monday’s City Council meeting, and speak if you’re comfortable doing so. Arrive by 6:30pm and fill out
 a speaker card, listing item 5 as the issue you would like to address. Each speaker will have up to three minutes. The
 Council agenda is posted at https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/blobdload.aspx?t=41999.32&BlobID=66273

 2) Please send an email to City Council — city.council@cityofpaloalto.org — ASAP, encouraging them to pull the item
 from the consent calendar for a proper public discussion. Encourage them to support the State Water Board’s proposal,
 which aims to achieve the co-equal goals of ensuring a reliable water supply AND protecting and restoring the
 environment. We can have both! — https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pL_INODOxsI&feature=youtu.be. You can find
 some additional talking points at https://www.tuolumne.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/07/Final-SED-Talking-Points.pdf
 Fun Fact: The 2009 Delta Reform Act, which established the State’s co-equal goals and initiated the current update to
 the Bay Delta Plan, was authored by former Palo Alto Mayor and current County Supervisor, Joe Simitian when he
 served in the State legislature.




                                                              5
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:16 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Virginia Fitton <dvfitton@gmail.com>
Sent:                             Friday, August 17, 2018 9:23 AM
To:                               Council, City
Subject:                          Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan


Palo Alto City Council,

Please pull the item from the consent calendar for a proper public discussion.
Please support the State Water Board’s proposal, which aims to achieve the co‐equal goals of ensuring reliable water
supply and protecting and restoring the environment.

Virginia and Don Fitton




                                                           6
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 4:26 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Paul Machado <plmachado@gmail.com>
Sent:                         Friday, August 17, 2018 10:05 AM
To:                           Council, City
Subject:                      Remove from consent calendar



Item 5 on Monday's consent calendar rubber stamps the state water
resources control board's bay delta plan...............Really!

Do you not believe this extremely important issue deserves a debate?

Thank you

Paul Machado




                                                     1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 4:26 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                             terryt1011@aol.com
Sent:                             Friday, August 17, 2018 1:06 PM
To:                               Council, City
Subject:                          Aug. 20 Council meeting; Restore the Delta



Mayor Kniss and Members of the Council:

       I am writing to urge you to:
       1. Remove item 5 from the consent calendar; and
       2. Send an e-mail from the Mayor on Tuesday, August 21 to the State Water Resources
       Control Board (SWRCB) supporting their proposal to restore some of the natural water flow to the Delta.
       Because the public comment period, ends on August 22, I suspect a snail mail letter will not arrive on
       time.

       I apologize for being unable to attend your Council meeting. I do not have a caretaker for my wife, who
       has severe Alzheimer's.

       Here are some of the reasons that the City should support the SWRCB in establishing minimum
       unimpaired flow to the Delta:
       1. It is the right thing to do;
       2. Palo Alto has proven itself capable of doing well in spite of the two most serious droughts in our history;
       3. Mediation of Delta issues is a fraud, being suggested to prevent action that actually can address our
       water problems.
       4. This issue is important enough that it should be publicly discussed in the future.

       Some elaboration:
       1. It is the right thing to do!!!
       Palo Alto justifiably feels it is a very environmentally friendly city. We all know that the state's most
       important natural asset is severely compromised- the Delta and Central Valley, which gets 50% of the
       waterflow in the state. Yet, San Joaquin Valley water interests have taken so much water out of the
       upper San Joaquin River that it did not reach its intersection with the Merced River for 50 years. do we
       want that for the entire Sacramento- San Joaquin system?

       I grew up in Sacramento, and my father was Chief Engineer for the Central Valley Regional Water Quality
       Board from 1956-70. He was also an avid fisherman, and we went out on the Delta and Central Valley
       streams on weekends. In 1964, my college roommate introduced me to water skiing on the Delta, which
       was then entirely freshwater. I have seen the destruction of the Delta first hand. Fish, animals, and
       plants have disappeared.

       In 1979-84, I commuted to Sacramento to head a state environmental department. I was shocked to
       learn that the freshwater habitat of the Delta was being annihilated by salt. Prior to the export of water
       from streams, saltwater only reached Antioch. By 1979, it was up to Rio Vista. The Delta evolved in
       freshwater, and now it has too much salt.

       The Public Trust doctrine in the California Constitution requires natural resources to be managed to
       benefit all Californians. In 1982, the SWRCB required the City of Los Angeles to reduce its diversion from
       the six creeks flowing into Mono Lake. The courts upheld this requirement, which includes maintaining
       the lake's level in low water years, and increasing it in high rainfall years. Does this sound similar to the
       Delta?
       We can accomplish restoring the Delta.

       2. Palo Alto has proven itself capable of doing well in spite of the extraordinary 1976 and 2016 droughts.

                                                             2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 4:26 PM
        When I took California Geography at UC Davis, my professor described the Bay Area and Central Valley
        as deserts. "Drought" is actually a permanent condition here, and we should institute permanent
        programs to conserve water and increase efficiency. In my opinion, the City has done a good job of
        that. As a result, the severe droughts have not had a serious effect on the City. For example, we have
        our groundwater available, and it was the City's water supply until the 1950s. We did not touch it in those
        really bad droughts.

        The City is well enough off to give some of its water to East Palo Alto, an action universally approved by
        everyone that I know.

        At the August 1 UAC meeting, staff told his that we have a surplus of recycled water. While the Stanford
        business park is about to use it, Stanford "resists" its use on campus. That is a lot of grass getting
        drinking water. Campus use of recycled water would make local streams much healthier.
        We have hardly touched other potentials, like graywater and stormwater runoff storage. Friends put tanks
        in their front and back yards to capture runoff on their own property. They find it meets all of their needs
        for watering their lawn in the front, and watering their fruits and vegetables in the backyard. You may
        recall that in June, California voters passed a measure to provide financial incentives to stormwater
        storage and use.

        The point: Palo Alto is well placed to handle any of its water needs. The SWRCB action presents no
        threat to us.

        3. Mediation.
        As full time Chairman of the California Waste Management Board, I was the first government department
        in the country to use environmental mediation. All parties must agree, or mediation is meaningless.
        However, for 10 years mediation on Delta issues was attempted by President Clinton, his successor
        President Bush, and Governors Wislon, Davis, and Schwarzenegger. This was called the Cal-Fed
        process. Yesterday, Sunnyvale Councilman Gustav Larsson, chair of BAWSCA, e-mailed me "I must
        confess to not knowing about the Cal-Fed process. I read up on it and now appreciate what an utter
        failure it was."
        Mediation is only being proposed as a ploy to avoid regulation by the SWRCB.

        4. Having an open process in Palo Alto.
        In my opinion in my few years on the UAC, there have been a lot of agenda items that are a lot less
        significant than the City's role in water. The SWRCB regulatory policy began a few years ago, yet nothing
        was brought to the UAC or Council. In 2016, city staff sent the SWRCB a letter without UAC or Council
        involvement. Similarly, with the final day of comment being Wednesday, Aug. 22, no item was agendized
        until I commented on it at the UAC on August 1.

        Unfortunately, water experts who think they know more than us have used this strategy for a long
        time. Out of sight is out of mind. Basically, in 1982, the Sierra Club and other environmental groups
        referended an attempt to divert even more water from the Delta. The project, called the Peripheral Canal,
        lost by 58%, and our county voted against it 92-8. In 2016, 75% of Palo Altans voted to tax
        themselves to help restore the baylands (Measure AA). Simply put, I believe the public wants the
        Delta restored and sustained.

        Palo Alto has engaged, well educated residents. We have found that the public airing of issues provides
        better results than hidden actions by staff. Trying to hide things does not work.

        While I could argue the point all day, you are spared that. I ask only that you do the right thing, and
        support the SWRCB in establishing minimum flows of unimpaired water in the Central Valley.

        Terry A. Trumbull
        Lecturer, Environmental Law and Policy
        San Jose State and Santa Clara Universities




                                                              3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:19 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Michael Frost <mr.michaelfrost@gmail.com>
Sent:                             Friday, August 17, 2018 4:54 PM
To:                               Council, City
Subject:                          Support for the Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan



Dear Palo Alto City Council,

Please do not adopt a position in opposition to the Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan!

Putting this incredibly important item on the consent calendar without a proper public discussion cuts to the
core of our democracy (in a negative way)!

Nothing is more important than water in CA. Fish are a leading indicator of the health of this region. A Delta
that cant support native fish cannot supply clean drinking water, clean ground water, or safe irrigation water.
The algae blooms that so recently wreaked havoc in Florida can also happen here. There are no jobs on a dead
planet. Palo Alto is a world leader in environmentalism.

Please give the public a proper chance to discuss/debate this position.

           Please support the State Water Board’s proposal, which aims to achieve the co-equal goals of
           ensuring a reliable water supply AND protecting and restoring the environment. We can have
           both! — https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pL_INODOxsI&feature=youtu.be.



           The 2009 Delta Reform Act, which established the State’s co-equal goals and initiated the
           current update to the Bay Delta Plan, was authored by former Palo Alto Mayor and current
           County Supervisor, Joe Simitian when he served in the State legislature.



           Thanks,

Michael Frost
650-793-0654

Sent from my iPhone




                                                           1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:20 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Peter Drekmeier <peter@tuolumne.org>
Sent:                           Saturday, August 18, 2018 10:23 AM
To:                             Council, City
Cc:                             Keene, James; Shikada, Ed
Subject:                        TRT Response to CM Tanaka Question
Attachments:                    Attachment D.pdf



Dear Mayor Kniss and City Council Members:

The Tuolumne River Trust and our supporters are grateful to the City for taking up the issue of the Bay Delta
Water Quality Control Plan, and moving the item from the consent calendar to the action agenda for Monday’s
meeting. Thank you very much!

You may wonder why we care so much about your opinion on this issue. The reason is that the Bay Delta Plan
is one of the most profound environmental issues facing the Bay Area, and yet it has never been properly vetted
in a public forum. Astonishingly, the SFPUC has discussed this issue in public only once, way back in January
of 2017. As a result of pressure from environmental organizations, they have now scheduled a public hearing
on August 28, a week after the State Water Board hearing. Meanwhile, the SFPUC has discussed the issue
several times in closed session — we don’t know how many times because their agendas are vague (they list a
California legal code, but say nothing about the Bay Delta Plan). The process has not been transparent.

Unfortunately, City of Palo Alto staff have fallen into the same pattern as others, and just repeat information
they receive from BAWSCA and the SFPUC, without any of their own analysis. And they have ignored
information we have shared, which is backed up by facts and figures. For the first time, we have a jury — the
Palo Alto City Council — who will determine which side has a more convincing case. We greatly appreciate
you taking on this role!

I will be responding to staff’s responses to questions from Council, starting with Council Member Tanaka’s
question.

CM Tanaka: Does endorsing this mean we endorse cutting Palo Alto’s water usage by roughly 50% as the plan
goals state (to increase flows on the Tuolumne River by 40%)?

TRT Response: Staff’s response just repeats the SFPUC/BAWSCA line, without any explanation. Council
deserves a much better answer. Here it is.

The Bay Delta Plan would increase unimpaired flows (what would exist in the absence of dams and diversions)
in the Tuolumne River from an average of 21% between February and June to 40%. Over the course of a year,
this would result in 14% more unimpaired flow in the River. The additional releases would be the
responsibility of the Modesto and Turlock Irrigation Districts and the SFPUC.

TRT has modeled what would happen if water demand rebounded to pre-drought levels (223 million gallons per
day [mgd]), the Bay Delta Plan’s 40% of unimpaired flow were in place, and we faced a reoccurrence of the
six-year drought of record (1987-1992). We assumed there would be no rationing in years one and two (since
we wouldn’t know we were in a drought), 10% rationing in years three and four, and 20% rationing in years

                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:20 AM
five and six. Our model showed that the SFPUC could manage the drought with water left over in storage. I
attach a description of our model.

The SFPUC has accepted our model as accurate. However, the SFPUC is planning for an 8.5-year “design
drought,” which combines the two worst droughts of the latter half of the last century — 1987-1992 followed
immediately by the driest two-year period on record, 1976-77. The figures they present are based on 2040
demand projections, not their own (250 mgd) but assuming Plan Bay Area growth projections are accurate (265
mgd). The SFPUC treats every year as if it were the beginning or middle of their design drought, so according
to their policy, even if all of their reservoirs were full (enough water to last six years under pre-drought
demand), they would begin rationing almost immediately. This is how they come up with the figures presented
by staff. Their figures could be anything, depending on the drought horizon they embrace.

If the SFPUC implemented it’s rationing policy under the circumstances we modeled (223 mgd demand and
40% of unimpaired flow), they would end up with 576,000 acre-feet of water in storage at the end of the six-
year drought of record, and then their reservoirs would fill, as they did following the 1987-1992 drought. To
put this in perspective, 223 mgd equals 250,000 acre-feet per year). Therefore, the SFPUC would end up with
more than two year’s worth of water in storage, and the extreme rationing they would have required would have
been unnecessary.

So, the question is whether it's prudent to plan for a drought that combines the two worst droughts from the
latter part of the last century, even if such a policy leads to the total collapse of the Tuolumne and Bay-Delta
ecosystems.

I would hope we all would say no. Especially given the fact that we have a huge buffer against drought in the
form of agricultural water. Like the State average, about 80% of the developed water (that which is used by
humans) from the Tuolumne is used for agriculture, and 20% goes to urban use in the Bay Area. Palo Alto
purchases water from the SFPUC at about $2,200 per acre-foot. Farmers in Stanislaus County purchase
Tuolumne River water for about $20 per acre-foot. Even considering the multiplier effect (production of crops
makes up 29% of the total value, and labor, processing and distribution the rest), the total value of an acre-foot
of water in an agricultural community is less than what Palo Alto pays for water from the SFPUC. In other
words, we could pay an irrigation district enough to compensate farmers, laborers, processors and distributors
exactly what they would have made from the water (and they wouldn’t have to do any work), at a price that is
less than what we pay the SFPUC.

Would an irrigation district sell us water? The only other time the SFPUC needed to buy water was during the
1987-1992 drought (when conditions for the SFPUC were very different than they are today, which I will
explain below). The SFPUC was successful at purchasing water. And now we have dramatically improved
interties between water agencies, allowing even more potential water transfer partners. Even if the irrigation
districts were to act against their own financial self-interests, and refused to sell water to the SFPUC just to spite
them, the State would step in and facilitate a sale. The State would never allow the Bay Area to go
dry. Agriculture contributes only 2% of the State economy. Compare that to the economies of San Francisco
and Silicon Valley.

Here’s the difference between conditions during the 1987-1992 drought and today: 1) heading into 1987, water
demand was at its highest ever (290 mgd, compared to 175 mgd in 2016 or 200 mgd this year); 2) Cherry Lake,
the SFPUC’s second largest reservoir (75% of the capacity of Hetch Hetchy) had to be drained for maintenance
in 1989; and 3) the SFPUC adopted a “Water First” policy after the 1987-1992 drought, which prioritizes water
supply over hydropower generation. As mentioned above, if the drought of record were to reoccur and the Bay
Delta Plan were in effect, we would not need to purchase any additional water.

                                                          2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:20 AM
Bottom Line: The SFPUC could manage a repeat of the drought of record, even if the Bay Delta Plan were in
effect. If we experienced a drought worse than any we’ve ever seen, the SFPUC could purchase water from an
irrigation district at a reasonable price. The alternative — embracing the SFPUC/BAWSCA position — would
lead to further collapse of the Tuolumne and Bay-Delta ecosystems. Keep in mind that in an average water
year, the SFPUC currently has the right to capture 750,000 acre-feet of water from the Tuolumne (this doesn’t
include water from Bay Area watersheds), but only uses 250,000 acre-feet per year at pre-drought demand. So
even one or two normal years in the middle of an extended drought would lead to a considerable rebound in
storage.

I would be happy to answer any questions or provide documentation for the information provided above.

More responses to Council questions will be forthcoming as time permits on this beautiful Saturday.

Thank you again for taking this issue seriously.

-Peter




-----------------------
Peter Drekmeier
Policy Director
Tuolumne River Trust
peter@tuolumne.org
(415) 882-7252




                                                       3
                                                                                                    ,, %&,
                                                                                                                
                

 ,, +(*+ ,+%'$ '/, ;C?K-&!%(!*$'/*'%*-*1: -&</'-$,, 
!, +!0:1**'- ,'*'*;@HGF:@HHA</*,'*'-*!&, &*-,-*&!&A?C?5', +,'
'-*!$!,13/-+!-*+&++-%, '$$'/!&4
    •Ā ',$%&'&, !'&$,*1+,%!+AAB%;AD?91<!&A?@G;+'&(*:*'- ,
          %&<3&AD?%;AG?91<!&A?C?+'&-(,%&(*'",!'&+5
    •Ā  6+,*!*+,'$!1;!%($%&,,*, @HGF:HA*'- ,<!+!&,5
    •Ā  @HHD!&+,*%$'/*)-!*%&,+*!&,5
    •Ā 1+,%+,'*,, !&&!&', *'- ,+,*,+,@3D@F;@3E@B'!&!&,'@HGF%!&-+HE
          '+,'*<5
    •Ā  !+*+('&+!$'*DAK'!&*+!&+,*%$'/(*, C, *%&,5
    •Ā $-$,!'&+'&',!&$-*'- ,':*%(+3/ ! /'-$*--&!%(!*$'/*)-!*%&,+
          -*!&0,&*'- ,+5
    •Ā ,!'&!&!+?K!&, !*+,,/'1*+'*'- ,;-+&''&#&'/+!,6+*'- ,1,<3@?K!&1*+
          , *&'-*3&A?K!&1*+!.&+!05

 !$, +%'$+*$,%'+,++-%(,!'&+3/$!.$,*&,!.+&*!'+$+'+ '-$'&+!*5
,'*+, ,/'-$!&$-&, '-,'%', +%'$+!&$-4
    •Ā ,!'&!&$.$+;/ &'+*,!'&!&!&3&/ ,!+, (*&,(*1*2<5
    •Ā *&,'-&!%(!*$'/*)-!*;+-+,+B?K:D?K<5
    •Ā 6+'$!,!'&'*(*&,'-&!%(!*$'/;'+, C, *%&,(($12<5
    •Ā //,*+-(($!+&9'*'&+*.,!'&%+-*+*'- ,'&$!&5

'$-%& *+*+'$$'/+4
    5Ā ,*1*5
    5Ā ',$&&-$-&!%(!*$'/;!-*+<5
    5Ā &!%(!*$'/*'%5: -&;!-*+<
    5Ā C?K'5: -&-&!%(!*$'/5
    5Ā ,-$$'/;,*(,-*&!.*+!'&+<!&, $'/*-'$-%&*'%5: -&; **!,!'&!+,*!,+*
          *+('&+!$'*, +*$++<5
    5Ā '/*-'$-%&*$++*)-!**'%5: -&+'&@HHD'**;!-*+(*'.!1(*#
          '+#*&+<5 **!,!'&!+,*!,+**+('&+!$'*, +*$++5
    5Ā!,!'&$$'/*)-!*1, 1$,$&;%!&-+<5
       5Ā 6+'$!,!'&'*!&*+$'/;DAK'+'&C, *%&,<5
     5Ā 7%&8!++'&, '$$'/!&*,!'&!&'*%-$4@M?3AM?3BM@?K3CM@?K3DMA?K3
          EMA?K5
     5Ā 7, * '+++8!&$-$'''&,*'$*$++3.('*,!'&&', *$'+++5
      5Ā 7',$ '++8!+, +-%', !*&/'/&+,*%$'/'$!,!'&; <3%&; <&', *
          $'+++; <5
      5Ā ,*.!$$,', *'%, -'$-%&!.*;!-*+(*'.!1(*#'+#*&+<5
    5Ā,*.!$$,', *'%1*/,*+ +;!-*+<5
    5Ā '$*'-&/,*.!$$,'5
    5Ā',$/,*.!$$,', ; LL<5
    5Ā 7,-,!'&8!+7',$ '++8; <%!&-+/,*.!$$,';<5
    5Ā%!&!&+1+,%+,'*;-'$-%&&1*<'$$'/!& /,*1*5



City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:21 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Peter Drekmeier <peter@tuolumne.org>
Sent:                            Saturday, August 18, 2018 1:11 PM
To:                              Council, City
Cc:                              Keene, James; Shikada, Ed
Subject:                         TRT Response to CM Kou's Questions
Attachments:                     Agreement - Supporting Districts on Flows.pdf



Dear Mayor Kniss and Council Members:

Please find below TRT's responses to staff responses to Council Member Kou’s questions about the Bay Delta
Water Quality Control Plan.

CM Kou: The Tuolumne River Trust provided information that is different from the staff report. Has staff
found any factual errors in the TRT video?
— https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pL_INODOxsI&feature=youtu.be

Staff Response a: TRT: SFPUC’s analysis of the Bay Delta Plan falsely characterizes the anticipated water
supply impacts.

SFPUC’s analysis is correct. It considers an appropriate design drought (longer than has been observed in the
past but realistic given climate change). TRT represents accurately that several other agencies only plan for the
minimum drought required by the State, which up until recently was a 3-year drought. TRT neglects to mention
that the new State Urban Water Management Plan requires a minimum 5-year drought plan. Given climate
change and the high consequences of losing water supply in an extended drought, staff has traditionally been
comfortable with the SFPUC’s 8.5 year standard for drought planning.

TRT Response: I addressed the design drought in my previous email, but I will comment on a couple of other
points here.

There’s a big difference between planning for a five-year drought vs. an 8.5-year drought. The SFPUC’s design
drought is 41% longer than what the State requires. Is it worth allowing the Tuolumne and Bay Delta
ecosystems to collapse for this additional insurance, especially given my earlier comment about the ability to
purchase agricultural water at a reasonable cost?

The SFPUC adopted its design drought before climate change was a major issue, and the design drought did not
include an analysis of how climate change might impact water supply. There is general consensus that as a
result of climate change, more precipitation will fall as rain, and less as snow, shifting runoff to earlier in the
season. Current thinking is that we will experience greater swings from year to year, some drier and some
wetter. The SFPUC, with 1.458 million acre-feet of storage capacity in its reservoirs (enough to last six years),
is much better prepared to capture water in wet years for use during dry years than almost any other water
agency.

Climate change will have some negative and some positive impacts on SFPUC water supply. The negative
impacts are more obvious, but I will point out two positive impacts.



                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:21 AM
1) The SFPUC has junior water rights to the Modesto and Turlock Irrigation Districts. The Raker Act, which
gave the SFPUC the right capture and divert water from the Tuolumne, guarantees the Irrigation Districts the
first 2,400 cubic feet per second (cfs) flowing down the River for most of the year. Between mid-April and
mid-June (peak runoff from snow melt), the IDs have the right to the first 4,000 cfs. As peak runoff shifts to
earlier in the season, more of it will occur during the time period when the SFPUC has the right to capture flows
above 2,400 cfs, significantly improving their water rights.

2) 2017 was the second wettest year on record in the Tuolumne River watershed, but yielded the highest runoff
on record. This is because climate change has had a serious impact on forest health, contributing to the 2013
Rim Fire that burned 20% of the Tuolumne watershed. With less vegetation taking up water, more runs off into
the River. In fact, some water agencies thin trees in their watersheds to increase runoff. While tragic for forest
health, climate change will lead to greater runoff, which will increase water supply.

Staff Response b: TRT: The economic study prepared by SFPUC’s expert has been “debunked.”

The author of the study is an expert in the field, and the study accurately predicted how the region responded to
the most recent drought. Due to the State-mandated water use reduction (16% average across the
region), agencies focused of reducing residential and dedicated irrigation customers, and almost no water use
reductions were required from businesses. Depending on the BAWSCA agency, reductions of more than 20-
30% will require water rationing by commercial and industrial customers that translates into reduced economic
output and job losses. A mandatory water use reduction of 50% would significantly impact all customers. It
should also be noted that the economic study is separate from the SFPUC’s modeling of dry-year water supply
impacts. This model showed that , at normal water demand levels, 40-50% rationing could be necessary during
dry years. Even at current depressed water usage levels, 20-30% rationing would be required in a dry year. The
number of dry year shortages would double or triple from the existing projected number of 1 in every 10 years
to 2 or 3 in every 10 years.

TRT Response: Again, per my previous email, the numbers cited in staff’s response are arbitrary, depending
on how long of a drought the SFPUC is planning for and demand projections. We met with Dr. Sunding, who
conducted the SFPUC’s socioeconomics studies, and asked him where he got his rationing figures, specifically,
whether he used figures from the SFPUC’s design drought. He said, no, he did not use the design drought
figures. SFPUC staff then corrected him and confirmed that the figures they provided were based on the design
drought.

In December of 2016, I was invited to present a workshop before the State Water Board on the SFPUC’s
socioeconomics study. My presentation is posted
at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FJQ5RhdU6vY&feature=youtu.be. It was well-received by the Water
Board.

Then in January of 2017, the SFPUC had its own opportunity to present a workshop to the Water Board. They
did not mention a thing about socioeconomic impacts. At the end of their presentation, one Board member
mentioned that she was surprised they didn’t bring up economic impacts (which she added had become very
controversial) given they had been the primary focus of the SFPUC's comments during the last round of
hearings. She asked if the SFPUC had any comments about socioeconomic impacts. SFPUC staff shuffled
around a bit and then said they were updating their study and would submit it with their written comments.

What does it tell you that the SFPUC did not address its socioeconomics study in front of a sophisticated
audience that was prepared to ask questions?


                                                        2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:21 AM
Between 2006 and 2016, water demand in the SFPUC territory dropped by 30%. According to the SFPUC
study, this should have resulted in the loss of 25,000 jobs and $7 billion dollars. To the contrary, between 2010
and 2015, 125,000 jobs were added in San Francisco alone and the Bay Area economy grew stronger than
ever. Between 2010 and 2016, in San Francisco and San Mateo Counties (which receive almost all of their
water from the SFPUC, and make up two-thirds of its customers) jobs increased by 27% while water demand
decreased by 23%.

How can staff possibly claim that "the study accurately predicted how the region responded to the most recent
drought.”?

Staff Response c: TRT: The SFPUC has a contractual obligation with the irrigation districts to support their
position of fish flow matters.

No such contractual obligation exists. The contract cited by the TRT pertained to an expired FERC license for
Don Pedro Reservoir, a facility in which the SFPUC holds some storage capacity. The obligation does not
pertain any SRWCB proceedings, the current FERC re-licensing proceeding, nor future FERC re-licensing
proceedings.

TRT Response: I attach the 1995 Agreement between the SFPUC and the Modesto and Turlock Irrigation
Districts.

Point 7 reads: “The City agrees to support the Districts' negotiating position regarding volumes of water to be
provided for fish flows during the FERC mediation process and during any proceedings before FERC relating to
that fish flow issue.

The State Water Board is required to provide a water quality certification as a condition of the relicensing of
Don Pedro Dam (owned and operated by the Irrigation Districts). The Board's decision on instream flow
requirements coming out of the Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan will serve as the foundation for their
water quality certification, so it is directly related to FERC (Federal Energy Regulatory Commission)
relicensing of Don Pedro.

The Irrigation Districts received their initial license for Don Pedro Dam in 1966, and the relicensing process
began in 2011. The Draft Environmental Impact Statement is expected to be released this fall or winter. I don’t
know why staff refers to an expired license. A dam cannot be operated without a license.

A more important contract between the SFPUC and Irrigation Districts is referred to as the 4th Agreement,
which dates back to the 1960s. Among other things, it obligates the SFPUC to produce 51.7% of any increase
in instream flow required by the Federal Power Commission (now FERC). It is silent on flows required by the
State Water Board. Despite this, the SFPUC has assumed the 51.7% figure applies to the Bay Delta Plan, and
has used the figure in all of its impact analyses, as have we to compare apples to apples. If the SFPUC’s share
of instream flow requirement were proportional to its diversions, it would only be responsible for 20% of the
new flow requirement.

The 4th Agreement states: "That at any time Districts demonstrate that their water entitlements, as
they are presently recognized by the parties, are being adversely affected by making water releases
that are made to comply with Federal Power Commission license requirements, and that the Federal
Power Commission has not relieved them of such burdens, City and Districts agree that there will be
a re-allocation of storage credits so as to apportion such burdens on the following basis: 51.7121% to
City and 48.2879 to Districts.”

                                                         3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:21 AM



As I mentioned above, the Agreement does not mention requirements coming from the State Water
Board.


The 1995 Agreement states: "This Agreement shall, unless sooner terminated or modified by mutual
agreement, extend for the remaining term of the FERC license for the Don Pedro Project (FERC No.
2299), including any annual licenses.”

This Agreement references the FERC license, but only with respect to the term of the Agreement. It
does not specify that the Agreement applies only to FERC.

Therefore, if the 1995 Agreement does not apply to the Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan, as the
SFPUC contends, then the 4th Agreement shouldn’t apply either. If this were the case, the SFPUC's
obligation to provide 51.7% of any increase in instream flow would not apply, which would
dramatically change their economic impact analysis.

Staff Response d. TRT: Water can be purchased from other sources, such as agricultural districts, at a
reasonable price to make up for shortfalls during a drought.

Since 2001 both BAWSCA and the SFPUC have sought to enter into water transfers, specifically to address dry
year needs. To date those efforts have been unsuccessful. Parties, including the TRT, have opposed water
transfers in the past.

TRT Response: As mentioned in my previous email, the only time the SFPUC needed to purchase water from
another agency was during the 1987-1992 drought, and they were successful.

In 2012, the SFPUC attempted to enter into a water transfer (sale) with the Modesto Irrigation District
(MID). At the beginning of negotiations, four of the five Board members supported the sale. The negotiated
price was $700 per acre-foot, but it would have been a take-or-pay contract, so the SFPUC would have had to
pay for the water whether they used it or not. The SFPUC estimated they might need the water in one out of
five years, so the actual cost of water used would have been $3,500 per acre-foot, a burden to be picked up by
ratepayers.

The SFPUC did not need the water at the time, nor during the drought, nor in the foreseeable future. They were
planning ahead to a time when water demand in the SFPUC service territory neared 265 mgd.

A number of farmers in the MID service area opposed the water transfer because it would have been long-term,
not limited to a drought year or two, and they opposed giving up water to an outside entity. They eventually
convinced a majority of the MID Board to oppose the plan.

In a situation in which the SFPUC really needed water on a short-term basis, negotiations would have been very
different. If need be, the State would step in to facilitate a sale.

Staff Response e: TRT: The SFPUC opposed the Bay Delta Plan because they are planning for massive
development driven by Plan Bay Area.



                                                       4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:21 AM
The SFPUC is not a land use management agency. The SFPUC does not rely on Plan Bay Area but on the
growth projections provided by the individual land use management agencies. It should be noted that, even at
current depressed water usage levels, 20-30% rationing would be required in a dry year.

TRT Response: SFPUC/BAWSCA internal projections have estimated that water demand would be 250 mgd
by 2040. However, in its analyses the SFPUC uses 265 mgd for 2040 based on Plan Bay Area. Plan Bay Area
forecasts the addition of 600,000 new people to the SFPUC service territory by 2040. I had an op-ed related to
this issue published in last Thursday’s SF Examiner — http://www.sfexaminer.com/prioritizing-san-franciscos-
water-supply/

Thank you again for taking the time to learn more about this important issue before deliberating on Monday
night.

-Peter


-----------------------
Peter Drekmeier
Policy Director
Tuolumne River Trust
peter@tuolumne.org
(415) 882-7252




                                                       5
                                           AGREEMENT

       The City and County of San Francisco (the "City") and the Modesto Irrigation District
and the Turlock Irrigation District (collectively the "Districts") agree as follows:

        1. This Agreement shall, unless sooner terminated or modified by mutual agreement,
extend for the remaining term of the FERC license for the Don Pedro Project (FERC No. 2299),
including any annual licenses.

       2. The Districts will provide all of the water required to satisfy the minimum flow
schedules set forth in that certain settlement agreement agreed to by the Districts and the City in
the FERC proceeding in Docket No. P 2299-024.

         3. In consideration of the payments contemplated in this agreement, the Districts agree,
prior to offering water for sale to any out-of-basin entity, to make a good faith offer to the City to
sell the water on reasonable, mutually agreeable terms and conditions whenever the Districts, or
either of them, detennine that water is available for sale.

         4. The City will pay the Districts, in equal monthly payments, the sum of $3,500,000 per
year . The first year shall begin and the first payment shall be due and payable on the first day of
the first month after the earlier of (a) the effective date of the FERC action ordering the new
instream flows or (b) the date when the new instream flows are provided by the Districts, but in
no event earlier than October 1, 1995. Interest on past due sums shall accrue at the rate specified
in 18 C.F.R § 35.19(a). Up to one-half of the first year's payment may be financed by the
Districts at a rate of 8 percent per annum amortized over a period of three years, payable
monthly in 3 6 equal installments.

        5. The payments due for the sixth year under this Agreement and each year thereafter
shall be adjusted to reflect the GDP Deflater index for the most recently available twelve
calendar months maintained by the United States Department of Commerce or similar index in
the event that index is discontinued.

         6. The City may discontinue payments to the Districts provided for in Paragraph 4 on the
fifth Anniversary Date or any time thereafter, provided that it has given the Districts not less
than one year's prior written notice of such intent. The City in such notice of intent shall state
the volumes of water they will provide under each of the water year classifications under Article
3 7 of the FERC license. On such discontinuance the City shall thereafter meet its obligations
under Article 8 of the Fourth Agreement. In the event ofa dispute under this paragraph, the
City will deposit the payments which would otherwise have been due in the absence of the
City's notice of intent into an escrow account until such time as the dispute is resolved.. The
City and/or the Districts shall be awarded such portion of the amount in the escrow account as is
consistent with the resolution of the dispute under Article 8. In the event ofa dispute under this
Paragraph, the Districts shall not be required pursuant to Article 8 to seek modification by the
FERC of the water release conditions set forth in the Settlement Agreement minimum flow
schedules before seeking resolution of the dispute. Pending the resolution of such dispute, the
Districts will continue to provide all flows as specified in paragraph 2 above.
       7. The City agrees to support the Districts' negotiating position regarding volumes of
water to be provided for fish flows during the FERC mediation process and during any
proceedings before FERC relating to that fish flow issue.

       8. The undersigned agree that this Agreement is subject to approval of their respective
governing bodies. The undersigned further agree that they shall recommend approval to such
governing bodies, and shall exert best efforts to obtain such approvals in an expeditious manner.

       9. The Districts and the City agree that they will cooperate in good faith and
expeditiously to develop additional standard contract language to be incorporated in this
agreement consistent with the above terms and conditions.

       Executed this 21st day of April, 1995.


CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO                     MODESTO IRRIGATION DISTRICT
                                                                                          Please Contact the Clerk’s Office
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:21 AM                                   to View Additional Pages,
                                                                                          Attachments, or Images Related
                                                                                                  to this Document
Carnahan, David

From:                               Mary Holzer <mbholzer@gmail.com>
Sent:                               Saturday, August 18, 2018 1:26 PM
To:                                 Council, City
Cc:                                 Keene, James; Shikada, Ed
Subject:                            San Joaquin Delta Restoration
Attachments:                        TRT Comment Letter on Final SED.pdf


Dear Palo Alto City Council Members,

I much appreciate that you have decided to pull the Staff report supporting a Bay Delta Plan Negotiated Settlement from
the consent calendar to open up the topic for public discussion. It's very important for Palo Alto citizens to be able to
weigh in on the State Water Board proposal, a proposal which proposes to ensure a reliable water supply as well as
protecting and restoring the environment for the Chinook Salmon.

The alternative proposal by the SFPUC to the State Water Board is highly flawed in its proposals to salvage the
Chinook Salmon population and to manage our water supply. It proposes primarily non-flow measures - habitat
restoration and predator control. It fails utterly to recognize that such non-flow mitigation efforts have been failures. Since
1995, the various Irrigation Districts have tried to enable recovery for the Chinook without increasing stream flow, and
the numbers have decreased. The attempt to physically increase salmon habitat has not worked, nor has the attempt to
reduce predators by filling in a gravel pit that was a habitat for the large-mouth bass. That merely allowed another
predator to flourish - the small-mouthed bass. They have also failed to protect genetic distinction.

The staff report ignores evidence from research that has already been done on the failure of current Delta habitat
restoration (see my discussion below and the attached Toulumne River Trust letter). There are other options than
throttling river flow for managing the water crisis bearing down on us as global warming spirals up and up - desalination
plants for a start. And a radical suggestion - actually do something Bay Area wide about limiting growth of jobs and
population in an area which is essentially a desert. Start telling the tech companies to build branches elsewhere in cities
that have sufficient water and need jobs. Start telling the farmers in the valley who want the water diverted to them to
grow crops that aren't almonds and rice. And actually DO something about transportation that is not powered by internal
combustion engines.

I encourage you to support the State Water Board
proposal. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pL_INODOxsI&feature=youtu.be.

Regards,

Mary Holzer

More information: - yes I know this is from 2008 but worth reading.
http://www.riverpartners.org/news-and-events/newsletters/200803_ChinookSalmon.html

Some background on Chinook Salmon decline:

Historically, California's patterns of water flow and mountain/valley/delta ecosystems supported the evolution of different
races or runs of Pacific salmon populations. Separated by when in the year they enter the Delta, these runs and their
reproductive cycles can be quite different and thus can be dramatically affected by man-made alterations in the rivers and
the Delta.

Case in point - - - Spring-run Chinook salmon, historically the most abundant salmon in the San Joaquin River system,
have disappeared from the San Joaquin River and it's tributaries - Stanislaus, Tuolumne and Merced Rivers. The life cycle
                                                               1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:21 AM
of these Salmon included migration up the tributaries as the snow melted in Spring, the existence of deep, cold pools
where they spent the Summer, spawning in the early Fall. Dams on the rivers put an end to this Chinook salmon variety in
the San Joaquin River system.

Fall-run Chinook survived because they migrate in Fall and spawn in lower elevation spawning beds, thus have continued
to exist because because their historic breeding areas are not cut off by the dams. However this does not mean that they
are not in trouble. Because of severe flow reduction and the consequent degradation of the river/spawning habitats, their
numbers have plummeted over time from multiples of tens of thousands to, in the Tuolumne River, barely 100. Clearly
this species is headed for extermination unless something is done to remedy the situation.

Although survival of the Chinook salmon is based on more than one restoration strategy, the primary factor is the
establishment of a much higher level of unimpaired flow in the San Joaquin River basin. The State Water Board proposes
a level of 40% in future operation of the Bay/Delta water systems.

To understand why that level of flow is necessary it is important to realize that factors besides the river channel and some
level of water flow in that channel that is necessary for salmon to spawn.

- Salmon require clear, high-quality, high oxygen, cold-water environments in which to spawn. Low-flow environments
have warmer, less oxygenated and cloudy, sediment filled water, which inhibits spawning.

- Fed and flushed by Spring run-off, the spawning ecosystem spreads out widely from the river into the adjacent off-
channel floodplain habitats where the young fish hatch and grow to the point of migration to the ocean. The flushing
action of heavy spring flow is important not only for high water quality, but the strong, cold flow flushes out predator fish
- large- and small-mouth bass that feed on salmon eggs and offspring. These predators require warm water and low water
velocities to reproduce, a condition encouraged by low, warm spring flow.

Other factors:

- It is important to encourage and support the growth of native, stream-side vegetation on the banks surrounding the flood
plain, thus providing more complex physical habitat structure, with more organic inputs and creating a better overall
physiological habitat.

- Realization that the reduction in the Chinook numbers and contraction of the spawning areas puts the species at a high
risk of extinction from a single catastrophic event like a single landslide.

- Reduction of population diversity (because the spawning population and thus population diversity is so low) can affect
Chinook behavior (the ability to function in a wider array of environments) as well as reduction in genetic diversity,
limiting the ability to survive changes in the environment - e.g. global warming. Which has consequences for food
sources.

Finally . . . read the Tuolumne River Trust letter.




                                                              2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:36 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                            James Cook <jamesfelixcook@yahoo.com>
Sent:                            Monday, August 20, 2018 6:31 AM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         Please support the State Water Board’s proposal for the Bay Delta Water Quality
                                 Control Plan.


I want the City Council to deny the staff recommendation and instead support the State Water Board’s proposal for the
Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan.

Thank you!
James
730 College Ave




                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:36 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Virginia Smedberg <virgviolin@hotmail.com>
Sent:                          Sunday, August 19, 2018 10:27 PM
To:                            Council, City
Subject:                       Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan



Dear Palo Alto City Councilmembers:

As a fellow resident of this city, I am writing to request that you look carefully at all of the information
provided by the Tuolumne Trust, which gives good reasons for supporting the State Water Board's proposal
for the Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan. The river has to be allowed to survive as a river over a long
period of time. That is the reason the Tuolumne Trust was formed. Rivers have many purposes and uses. My
reading of the staff's responses to the Trust's comments seems to indicate a less than complete understanding
of the bigger picture on the part of the staff. I understand that they have many issues to consider. And it is
unfortunate that so much of the discussion of these multiple and related issues has occurred behind some
agencies' closed doors. But in this case I think the State Water Board has a better view.

Therefore I am asking that you deny the staff recommendation and instead support the State Water Board’s
proposal for the Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan.

Sincerely,

Virginia Smedberg
441 Washington Ave
Palo Alto 94301




                                                      2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:36 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Jim Kozelka <jim.kozelka@gmail.com>
Sent:                         Sunday, August 19, 2018 9:12 PM
To:                           Council, City
Subject:                      Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan



Dear City Council,

Please deny PA staff recommendation and instead support the State Water Board’s proposal for the
Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan. Please vet this decision carefully and thoroughly to chose a truly
sustainable path.

Best regards,

JK

Jim Kozelka
146 Rinconada Ave,
Palo Alto




                                                     3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:36 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Brown, Jeffrey D. (ARC-TSS)[Analytical Mechanics Associates, INC.] <jeffrey.d.brown-1
                                  @nasa.gov>
Sent:                             Sunday, August 19, 2018 6:18 PM
To:                               Council, City
Subject:                          PLEASE PULL ITEM ID# 9510 (Resolution Supporting a Bay Delta Plan Negotiated
                                  Settlement) from the August 20th Consent Calendar

Importance:                       High


Dear City Council Members,

         The issue of giving official City support to one of the two competing proposals directed at Tuolumne River
restoration and Bay‐Delta Ecosystem preservation is far too important to be addressed without public input and
discussion, especially given the completely superficial discussions of them – by the Bay Area Water Supply &
Conservation Agency and by the Palo Alto city staff – in your City Council packets. I urge you in the strongest possible
way to pull this item from the August 20th Consent Calendar and schedule it for discussion as a regular agenda item at a
future meeting.

Thank you,
Jeff Brown
660 Lincoln Avenue
Palo Alto 94301
(650) 328‐7191




                                                            4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:36 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           William Reller <wereller@664gilman.com>
Sent:                           Sunday, August 19, 2018 4:24 PM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan



I do not support the SFPUC’s position on the plan. It is very bureaucratic agency, not responsive to current
water quality
needs, care of the Tuolumne River, and other. Not in its mandate apparently.

I do not understand why city staff simply forwarded the proposal to council anticipating a rubber stamp.

The Tuolumne River Trust, which I have supported long term, has supported the position held by the State
Water Board.

Thank you.

Thank you for your service to our community.



William Reller
wereller@664gilman.com




                                                        5
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:36 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                 Fred Nichols <fnichols56@gmail.com>
Sent:                                 Sunday, August 19, 2018 11:08 AM
To:                                   Council, City
Cc:                                   Fred Nichols
Subject:                              SWRCB’s proposed Bay Delta Plan


Hello members of the City Council: I was surprised to learn that the Council Staff has recommended that you support the position of
The Bay Area Water Supply & Conservation Agency (BAWSCA) position on water development in the San Francisco Bay, Delta, and
watershed rather than SWRCB’s proposed Bay Delta Plan as written. I am a long‐retired member of the community of scientists
that for decades has been studying the physical, chemical and biological connections between the San Francisco Bay/Delta and its
watersheds upstream. Over that same period we became aware that, looking forward, there is not going to enough fresh water
from this large watershed system to meet the ever increasing demands on that water. There is simply not enough free‐flowing river
water to go around now, and it will only get worse. Climate change is making the situation look bleak. Decision makers at all levels
of government should be asking and answering the hard questions such as why we are growing the state’s most water‐intensive, but
non‐essential crops such as cotton, cattle feed, and even almonds that are mostly grown for export? How are we going to keep salt
water from encroaching farther into the Delta and threatening local water supplies as a direct result of increased diversion of fresh
water away from the rivers and estuary? It is the fresh water flow down the rivers and through the Delta that prevents this
encroachment. Even if you are personally not very concerned about the destruction of the ecosystem of the Bay/Delta itself, these
are some of the critical questions that you need to be asking before you think about supporting more water diversion. You should
discuss these issues in public at your upcoming meeting before you prepare your findings. Thank you.

Fred Nichols
Long‐time Harker Avenue home owner and former P. A. Planning Commissioner




                                                                  6
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:36 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Elliot Margolies <elliotspark@yahoo.com>
Sent:                            Sunday, August 19, 2018 9:05 AM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         Remove Bay Delta Water Quality Plan from Consent Cal



Dear Mayor Kniss and Council Members,

Please remove the item regarding the Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan from the consent
calendar so that you can have a more comprehensive discussion on this critical
environmental decision.

Global warming is forcing us to think long and hard about our water - and balancing the needs we have for it
against the dramatic backdrop of sustainability.

Currently, only 21% of the Tuolumne’s unimpaired flow reaches the San Joaquin River. Under the Bay Delta
Plan, it would increase to 40% between February and June. Higher flows will improve fish migration, water
quality, habitat viability and the salt-freshwater balance in the Delta.

I'm heartened by the levels of conservation that we citizens have gotten to in the wake of government policy
shifts and think we can do even more if it is kept up as a priority. I'm very interested in farmers' efforts to
explore growing less water-intensive crops and using new techniques for irrigation.

I think that staff may have over-estimated the ability of the various agencies and other parties to come to a quick
negotiated policy consensus given their past inability to do so.

I urge your support for the Bay Delta Plan, but at least a more concentrated examination of this important
decision.

In appreciation of your demanding work.
Elliot Margolies
3858 El Centro St.
Palo Alto




                                                         7
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:36 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Geri <geri@thegrid.net>
Sent:                             Saturday, August 18, 2018 5:24 PM
To:                               Council, City; Keene, James; Peter Drekmeier; kbennett@luxsci.net
Cc:                               A-MIKE BECHLER; Geri Mc Gilvray; IMOGENE AND ROCHARD HILBERS
Subject:                          Re: item 5


Hello,

PLEASE support the BAY DELTA PLAN.

The TUOLUMNE river needs MORE natural flow in order to suppport any of the healthy wild creatures, trees and plants
necessary for all species to survive.

Do not allow the SFPUC to
Keep manipulating their habitat. Look what happened in Yellowstone when killing all the wolves caused the grazing dear
to destroy all the vegetation there. Unbelievable!

Interconnected habitats
are crucial to everything, everywhere.

Healthy water should flow into our bay.

Geri McGilvray
EVERYDAY SAFETY and
WALKABILITY, Midtown, Palo Alto
Sent from my iPhone




                                                          8
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:36 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Paul Hammes <shalomnature@comcast.net>
Sent:                             Saturday, August 18, 2018 5:13 PM
To:                               Council, City
Subject:                          Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan


Dear City of Palo Alto Council,

Please hold a proper public discussion about the city’s support or opposition to the State Water Board’s Bay Delta Water
Quality Control Plan. This should not be done behind the scenes as an item on the consent calendar! The council should
hear from the public and the public should hear the reasons the council has for supporting or opposing this plan.

Thank you,
Paul Hammes
777 San Antonio Rd., Unit #56
Palo Alto, CA
Graduate of Cubberley Senior High school, Wilbur Junior High school and Greendell Elementary school.




                                                           9
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 9:35 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Trish Mulvey <mulvey@ix.netcom.com>
Sent:                         Monday, August 20, 2018 8:54 AM
To:                           Council, City
Subject:                      support for State Water Resources Control Board's Bay Delta Water Quality Control
                              Plan



Dear Mayor Kniss and Council Members,

   Please add this note to your collection of community requests urging you to deny the City staff
recommendation and instead strongly support the State Water Board’s well-researched and balanced proposed
Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan. Thanks for your attention to this request.

Trish Mulvey
527 Rhodes Drive, Palo Alto




                                                      1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 1:48 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Patrick Ferraro <ptferraro5@gmail.com>
Sent:                             Monday, August 20, 2018 1:02 PM
To:                               Council, City
Subject:                          Bay Delta Water Quality Plan



Dear Mayor and Council Members

I felt this is journalist wrote a much better piece on this issue than anything else I've read on the issue.


San Francisco Is Fighting California’s Plan to Save Salmon. Wait. What?


https://www.kqed.org/science/1929999/san-francisco-is-fighting-californias-plan-to-save-salmon-wait-what

The writer used many more words to say what I tried to condense in my LTE to the SF Chronicle, which they
failed to print:

Response to Peter Drekmeier’s Op‐ed on Bay Delta Water Quality Plan.

By Patrick Ferraro, Director Emeritus, Santa Clara Valley Water District,
Adjunct Professor, Santa Clara University and San Jose State University

June 15, 2018

The clash of two over‐arching water policies is preventing the restoration of the Bay Delta’s
ecosystem and its endangered fisheries: The First‐in‐Time system of water rights seniority and the
Public Trust resources that the State must protect for all of California. Regardless of when water
diversions began from the Tuolumne or other rivers tributary to the Delta, each has contributed
to the cumulative damage of the estuary’s health. The State is at long last holistically addressing
the problem by requiring 40% of all the watershed’s tributaries to flow unimpaired into the Delta.
This is helping to restore the highly altered ecosystems, allowing salmon and other species to
recover. Those who have been contributing to the problem the longest are, of course, the loudest
protestors of this proposed water quality plan. Why should only the “junior” water rights holders
continue to be the sole source of restoration water? SFPUC and EBMUD have long operated their
own peripheral conveyance systems, while criticizing diversions from the South Delta as a “water
grab” of “their”(??) water. California remains ONE State, and should act accordingly to protect the
Public Trust that is the Bay Delta Estuary.

Never Thirst!

                                                           1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 1:48 PM
Pat Ferraro




                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 1:48 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                                terryt1011@aol.com
Sent:                                Monday, August 20, 2018 1:12 PM
To:                                  Council, City
Subject:                             KQED Science backs SWRCB on 40% regulation- Bay Delta Water Quality Plan


Mayor Kniss and the Council-
this came out on KQED.

Pat Ferraro was on the board of the Santa Clara Valley Water District for 20 years, and teaches with me in the
Environmental Studies department at San Jose State.

Terry A. Trumbull
terryt1011@aol.com


-----Original Message-----
From: Patrick Ferraro <ptferraro5@gmail.com>
To: terry trumbull <TerryT1011@aol.com>; Katherine Cushing <Katherine.Cushing@sjsu.edu>;
Sent: Mon, Aug 20, 2018 12:11 pm
Subject: KQED Science nails battle over Bay Delta Water Quality Plan

Dear Colleagues;

I felt this is journalist wrote a much better piece on this issue than anything else I've read.



San Francisco Is Fighting California’s Plan to Save Salmon. Wait. What?

https://www.kqed.org/science/1929999/san-francisco-is-fighting-californias-plan-to-save-salmon-wait-what


By Patrick Ferraro, Director Emeritus, Santa Clara Valley Water District,
Adjunct Professor, San Jose State University

June 15, 2018

The clash of two over‐arching water policies is preventing the restoration of the Bay Delta’s
ecosystem and its endangered fisheries: The First‐in‐Time system of water rights seniority and the
Public Trust resources that the State must protect for all of California. Regardless of when water
diversions began from the Tuolumne or other rivers tributary to the Delta, each has contributed
to the cumulative damage of the estuary’s health. The State is at long last holistically addressing
the problem by requiring 40% of all the watershed’s tributaries to flow unimpaired into the Delta.
This is helping to restore the highly altered ecosystems, allowing salmon and other species to
recover. Those who have been contributing to the problem the longest are, of course, the loudest
protestors of this proposed water quality plan. Why should only the “junior” water rights holders
continue to be the sole source of restoration water? SFPUC and EBMUD have long operated their
                                                                3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 1:48 PM
own peripheral conveyance systems, while criticizing diversions from the South Delta as a “water
grab” of “their”(??) water. California remains ONE State, and should act accordingly to protect the
Public Trust that is the Bay Delta Estuary.

Never Thirst!

Pat Ferraro




                                                     4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 4:00 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Suzanne Keehn <dskeehn@pacbell.net>
Sent:                         Monday, August 20, 2018 3:41 PM
To:                           Council, City
Subject:                      Water Decisions



Dear fellow residents of Planet Earth,

The decisions we make concerning water, needs a FULL discussion.
Without it we cannot live, and neither can our environment. We must
support the rivers and the natural ecosystem. We are part of the Earth,
not separate from it.

To balance the amount of water 'we' need, as well as that of our rivers,
fish, and flora is a serious discussion. Actually if we really 'got' our
interconnection and the climate disruption we are experiencing, huge
fires and melting ice caps, it would behoove us to question our assumptions
about continued growth, and the acceptance of 'that is just the way it is' to
grow an economy.

I also strongly do not want to see high rise apartment buildings that are
supposedly 'greener'. This is questionable, as people still need cars for work,
travel etc. Also everybody living in one still needs water.

We, collectively are in a crisis, the old ways no longer work, and the new,
sustainable ways, take courage, innovation, and dedication to create.

Suggested Reading, Charles Eisenstein, his website Charles Eisenstein | Author &
Speaker


Please read the second article on water on his home page.

Sincerely,
Suzanne Keehn
4076 Orme St.
94306




                                                     1
                                                                                      COUNCIL MEETING
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 7:50 AM
                                                                                      ✔
                                                                                              08/20/2018
                                                                                          Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                                        7
Carnahan, David

From:                            Greg Stutheit <gstutheit@montalbaarchitects.com>
Sent:                            Wednesday, August 15, 2018 7:37 PM
To:                              Kniss, Liz (internal); Filseth, Eric (Internal); DuBois, Tom; Holman, Karen; Scharff, Gregory
                                 (internal); Tanaka, Greg; Fine, Adrian; Kou, Lydia; Wolbach, Cory
Cc:                              Chris Wade; Ivo Keller; David D. Montalba; Gutierrez, Samuel; Council, City
Subject:                         620 Emerson/ARB Application No. 17PLN00331



Dear Councilmembers and Madam Mayor,

Montalba Architects represents the Applicant for the new Nobu Restaurant project located at 620 Emerson
Street. The project approval by the ARB was appealed and is on the upcoming August 20th City Council
Agenda.

The project team would be happy to offer a site visit prior to the hearing for any Council members that may be
interested. We are also available to answer any questions you might have with regard to the design and
approval process for the project, either by phone or email.

Finally, I am attaching a letter written by the project’s attorneys addressing the details of the appeal.

Thank you in advance for your attention to this matter and we look forward to presenting the project to you next
week.

Sincerely,

Greg




--

Greg Stutheit, Architect

Associate Principal



gstutheit@montalbaarchitects.com




MONTALBA ARCHITECTS, INC.

                                                            1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 7:50 AM
Los Angeles Office

2525 Michigan Avenue, Bldg T4

Santa Monica CA 90404 USA

T (310) 828-1100 (ext 107)



www.montalbaarchitects.com

Instagram | Twitter | LinkedIn




                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 9:35 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Elizabeth Wong <elizabethwong2009@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Monday, August 20, 2018 9:28 AM
To:                             Council, City
Cc:                             Keene, James; Shikada, Ed; plmachado@gmail.com
Subject:                        Appeal of New Building at 620 Emerson
Attachments:                    parking.pdf



Dear City Council Members,

Tonight the Council Agenda includes the Appeal of the Planning and Community Environment Director's
Decision to Approve the Architectural Review Application for 620 Emerson Street to Allow Demolition of an
Existing Single Story Building and Construction of a new two-story 4,063 Square Foot Commercial Building
for the Expansion of Nobu Restaurant.

The Appellant Yo LLC's appeal is based on the elimination of 3 existing on-site parking spaces which can
easily be kept by expanding the length of the parking spaces by 3 feet inward into the new building.

There are 2,124 similarly situated spaces in the University Avenue Area Off-Street Parking Assessment District
that could be similarly eliminated and converted into indoor commercial space, much to the benefit of the owner
and much to the detriment of the public.

This sets a dangerous precedent for the elimination of much needed parking spaces throughout the
downtown. And it could potentially result in lawsuits against the City by the owner denied such parking
elimination. Payment of in lieu parking is hardly a solution when the City lacks both the space and funds
required to build 5 or more public parking structures to accommodate 2,124 parking spaces.

I encourage you to contact the residents of Palo Alto, in particular the group Palo Altans for Sensible Zoning for
their input on this matter.

Please read attached for background information.

Thank you for your time on this matter.

Sincerely,

Elizabeth Wong, Manager

Yo LLC




                                                        1
To:            City of Palo Alto City Council


Subject:       Appeal of Planning Staff Approval of
               Demolition and Construction at 620 Emerson St.


Appellant:     Yo LLC


Date:          May 31, 2018


Let's start with a few simple facts.

 Until Stanford Florists closed, the back of this property at 620 Emerson was actively used for
parking and loading for the flower shop. The Applicant's approved design eliminates all three
on-site parking spaces.

This Appeal objects to the elimination of the parking spaces based on the following:

POTENTIAL DISAPPEARANCE OF 21 124 PARKING SPACES

On-site parking is sorely needed in the downtown core. Elimination of on-site parking pushes
the parking problem to the City.

The city's parking assessment document {University Avenue Area Off-Street Parking Assessment
District - attached as Exhibit A) shows on page 5 that the property is given credit for three on-
site parking spaces and paid in-lieu for the remaining eleven spaces it didn't provide.

The architects' drawings for this property show as existing conditions that there are three on-
site parking spaces. The Applicant's plans for new construction removes all on-site parking.

Now I ask you, why would the City even consider allowing this on-site parking to be removed?
This sets a dangerous precedent as there were by my count 2,124 on-site parking spaces listed
in the report {page 6 of Exhibit A), many with similar 90-degree parking configurations with
access from a 20-foot wide alley {see Exhibit B), that can also be removed from similar sites if
on-site parking at 620 Emerson is allowed to disappear.

Purportedly, the reason to allow removal is because the current configuration for the existing
parking spaces is 20 feet long and does not meet the new standards requiring 23 to 25 feet.
This can be easily accommodated by increasing the length inwards towards the interior of the
site. Further, any space lost by the expansion of the parking could easily be accommodated on
the second floor of the Applicant's design.

DO WE NEED TO LOSE All THREE SPACES?
If it is necessary to accommodate access for utilities and/or trash removal, it might necessitate
losing one of the parking spaces; but to remove all three parking spaces is overreaching. The
Applicant should be required to preserve as much on-site parking as possible, even only one in
the extreme case.

OTHER ON-SITE OPTIONS

The Applicant has not addressed other viable options such as putting parking underground,
which can easily be accommodated with a ramp from the alley. Another option is to use a
mechanical lift to double the parking of any space, thus increasing the parking density of
downtown.

In summary, we are appealing Planning's approval for this project because it runs counter to
the City and its residents' best interests. The elimination of on-site parking goes against the
City's long-time vision to keep the downtown a viable commercial core with easy access for
residents and visitors. Return this project to Staff until the on-site parking issue is properly
addressed.

Respectfully submitted,




Yo LLC
         ....:
         (f)
         z
         0
         (f)
         ~
         w
         ~
'b       w
D        CJ           lo
......   ('\J
         \£)          (\)
                      D
                 ,.   ......
          l




                               t,
                               ~    'b
                                    (\)
  FINAL ENGINEER'S REPORT
                  for

UNIVERSITY AVENUE AREA OFF--
          STREET
PARKING ASSESSMENT DISTRICT



              Prepared for!

          City of Palo Alto
           . California




      -       Prepared by:


      . . Harris .& Associates

              March,2001
City of Palo Al\o                                                                                                                 Proltmlnnry                            Final
Unlvo11lly Avenue Ofl·Slrel!t Parn1no Assos•menl Dlslrlcl                                                                         Coal EsUmal•          $45,fl()l, 133   eo.t E&llmala                                        $<5,M8,IJ90
Assess.tnent Q:l'lll
                                                                                            MaiDll'J Addms                                                               Sil•              Squ:uo           Parlilno          Pal1dng          1\,0, Pa•kl"IJ        P•'"'V         Pll!ilmlnal}'           Finni
Asi:e$Mnenl As.s1"'11'1       Ovmel's
                                                                                                                                                                                           f,ool;ivu        Reoukod           Prv•ldod         P"1ldootlon           Bencnt         A.P&.s5mont             At1ff1Hm~nt
  NUmll<t     Pnrcol          Nnme                                                          tlumbat Slloet                        Clly    SlalO IZIP             AddtOU
                                                                                               550 Lytto•Av 3m Fir.               Palo AhoCA        114301·tS42 550L)tkm                         4.MS               ID                   10                 O'                 0              $0.00                 $o.ll0
      I        120.0.1«l02    Peters, COlln                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5          $25.0llS.05          $25,085.05
      2        120-03-<!23    P.todu!us •rrves1rrient Co.                                     21~ e:. Pnt1ur'1 ways Sto 1ao SDllLailoClly UT              11<100 507 Unlvonl!y                   0,021              27                   22                 5
                                                                                              2725 E. Po~o)"• Wavs Slo 120 Sllll l•k&CUy UT               8410SJ SSS Untversttv                 10,5'2              42                    2                ,.                 ~·        $200,!120.4.0        $2DO,S20.40
      3        120.0l·024     ModU1us 11rm1men1 cc.
                                                                                               525 llnlvon;lly Av. Unit 1500 PllloAHo     CA              IM~OI 435 Ta110                       35,119             HO                    30               110             110           $551,431.1 t         $5S1,431. tt
      •        120<QJ.OZ5     ACQllGl.1.C
      5        120.03-028     ctit. Rooor.r.t c.
                                              Tru1le•                                          42' toucst.                   PiltoAllo    CA        o.t30t i645 ds riis.0
                                                                                                                                                               0                                       0                il               0                      0           G•                                      $0.00
      G        110.03-027      Sedo!rneyer. Challos L. and Oarbaro s.                          G8IJ 1'13¥0~01 St.            PlalaAllo    CA       o.t301"254D ftTT°'so                          1.180                  S                4                      I               I          SS.OIMI             ss.013.Q1
      7        120.03·028      L~ett.OOllllitA                                                      P.o.o.. i20              r:i,,10Alla  CA              91301 415T4SIO                             0                  0                0                      0              o                to.oo               s0,00
      e        120-03-030      Palo Allo lrn91U•1<1monl Ca.                                         P,O.SoxZI                PoloAllo     CA        0002"00'21 500 Unlvllltlly                  15,800             IM                     0                IM                 GI        '320,1132.lll        $320,032.114
      0        12°'03•031      Grondl. Jomos A. Tru!leo                                        530,UolYO>sllf AY.            PoloAllo     CA        04301·1V01   aao Unlvorany                   8,400             34                     0                 31                34        $170,4'2.34          $170,142.34
      tn       170-0'-032     JTC                                                              54~ Unh,Ortlty Av. S!o. f05   PA~Allo      CA        !J.1301·1012 540Unl•e"'1v                   1c,o31             eo                     o                 oo                oo        s100.1eo.eo noo.1110.so
      ti       120.03-033     JLSA1M>d.1IO$ll                                                   170 Stnrllsh CL               MOii""              CA     03033-2245 545 Unl,."'1y                4,215                 17                 O'               IT                  17         ses.221.11 $05,221.17
      12       1io.o;1.035    TP Unlvor<lly Avp. A"ocs. LLC                                   ISllO Ttlnuon Slo. A SI.        So!Yftll!to         CA          01020      550 Unlverstty          4.llSo            20                     0                20                 20         $100,2ll0.20 SI00,26UO
      13       120.03·D3B     FOfbOI, rhomal A,                                                      P.O. So• 1021            Polo Alto           CA    9(302.1021       5114 Unl•ar>lly         3,!ICXI            0                     0                 0                  0               .$0.0D!      io.oo
      14       120-0l·037     RUQll•, G"'rv• I.I. ""'Sniti.1r.> M. Truslte                   25520 Adobe Ln.                  Lo& Allo1 Hlls      CA    9402HSSO         588 thllver<try         o,ZGI             37                    0                 31                 :n         SIB5,<Bl.37 $185,COl.31
      t5       120-03-o!2     Fl'IP'Ml'ff·ArMICllll'n Tn.tst                                   571 Hamlllonilv.               Pa.'oA114           CA    04301•2035       SM tlam111on            l,Bf9                  o'                0                     Q              0                $0.00               10.00
      IQ       120.0.1·063    Hamtllon Wob1to1 JT V9" Et Al                                    SSS flomlllon Av. tJnll SI 100 Pala Alto           CA          o.t301     555 Hommon             14.010                 CB                 a                51                 51         $255.003.51         $216,563.f;t
      17       120.0l·OIM     Johnson. Lund M. Trusla• Et Al                                  141111 Oolphlc Wy,              Pocolollo           IC          113201     S37H;mll!on             uo                    ID                 0                 18                18          $1IO.~UB            $00,23!.18
      10       l:W.Ol·CU      Levell, Dl!Ml$A                                                  soa wavullciy SI.              PDloAllD            Cl\        114301      5i!lltinlllM            3,112                  il                0                     01             0                SO.OU               S0.00
                                                                                               zso un1v1111llyAv. sie. :ioe PoloAllo              CA          94301      505 K•mlnon            32.515             130                    0               130                 130       $1151.101.ll sos1.ao1,31
      IV       120.0U!IO      505 H:tmillon AvMUt Pa1tn11rt
               120.03-087     Dot Srcc:o, Caf\:lt and Cl.:1)11:1h R. 'Trusten                     7 SallyLMO                  AlttMon             CA    0·1027°5401      $43COIYPOI              9,355                 37                 0                37                 37        Sts5.lftU1 Sl85,481.37
      ~o

               120.1)3.00D    c M Copll•I Carpmollon (soe nolo t)                              525   Unl•olllly AY. Unll ISllO    Polo Alla       Cl\   01301-11123      525 Unlvcrs•ly       201.210             805                4St                  353             353         $1,7811,5112.55 $1,789,592.&s
     21
                                                                                                                                                        IU30MOZ3         525 Unlvtr>lly             0               0                  0                    0               0                  ~O.oo          $0.00
     u         120-03·010     CM Capilol Co'l'Orallon        ·                                 US    Unlv111llyAV. Unll 15ll0     Polo Alto       CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                so.no             200                 OD                  102             102           SSll,321.02 $611,327.03
     2l        12o.03·01t     Jotinw,..Hlrnst P.,.,,.rsh!p, !I Al (su nol• 21                    4   Main 6t Unll 20 I            i.IJj Ah0$      CA    IM02Mll02        530 Li!lon
     24        120.03.072     CIODS 1897 Finl P'1llno11111lp, LP                                 •   Mnl1181. 1Jnl12DI            1.ooAhol        Cl\   D402Mll02        m Lytton                      o'           0                  0                        o'          0                  SO.OD          $0.00'
     25        120-03·004     City of Pata Atta •WofJ.strr.CoWpar Oruago} aUn: Joa Sar:do      1$0   HtmVIM Avenua .flh E=IOot    Polo ""o        CA         IM30t                                     0                Q                0                      0              o                $0.DO               So.DO,
     20        120.03·oa5     Monts A•1<1cltl•• v ·Fresno Lond Onfr                            172   Unlvorslly '"'·              Polo Alto       ,CA          1"3015ll~r                       10,083                 1511               0                ea:                68         '310,81!1.88 $340,961.88
     27        120-fl·OIJB    City al Polo Allo CL\110,,.WOVerly Loi) •Un: Jo& Siit:da         2SO   Htmilton Ave.nuo 41h Floor   P1!0 Alto       CA           04301                                   0                0                 0                     0              o                SO.DO       S0.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                   oea                                                          ~              •           $20,052,01 120,052,04
     28
     20
               12a.ll.(191
               !ZO-ll·0!12
                              J:it:M1S01 ~IO A. and Pasquafl'l\ll A.
                              505 Harnntc:in Avanuo Pons, LP
                                                                                              2203
                                                                                               105
                                                                                                     ChrmyAv.
                                                                                                     Albl!flo Wy. Sto. G
                                                                                                                                  SonJoso
                                                                                                                                  Loo Dollli
                                                                                                                                                  CA
                                                                                                                                                  CA
                                                                                                                                                        ~125-4712     1en111un
                                                                                                                                                               05032 35 I Lytlott                7.SIM                  '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0                 30                30         5150,300.30          s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       150,300,30
     30        120.ll·otS     City ol Polo Alto (Ll'll•.,.W••~r l.ol) '"'"Joo Socdo            2!0   H•mlllon Aveni.10 ,.lh Floor Palo Alto       C4           114301                                0                  0                 0                     0              o                SO.DO       $0.00

              Uo.tl-IOt       KcUey, n•tlwd A. Jr.                                             112 Unl•lllJifr Av                 PafoAl!o        CA           OUOI 305Lytlon                   10,PQO                 44                 1                31                 37        1105,IUI .37          $10S,4S1.37
     31
     3i       120.ll-102      Mal<UIY Prvpody lnvs. LLC.                                       05 T~tl<I SI, IJnil SI. 3DO        PoloAllo        CA           04301 325 Lytlon                  o,5eo                 30                49                ·II                 0               so.co                SCUlO
     33       120-11·110      KcUoy, Rlcl1ont R. Jr, 21 Al                                     17i Unlvenlly AY                   PaloAllu        CA           94301 33681\'•nl                  0.110                 3U                 0                 36                35         s1ti0.•ouilSlllO,•l)j.30
     31       110.U·lll       C.mpboH Assoclllloo 11, APTSP                                   2055 om...., Pl. Uni~· S&O          S11nJoaa        CA           0~110 379L)tlon                  30,CIOC            120                   es                 35                35        $175,4$5.35 S1?5,CSS.35
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    33                                      33                33         $105,4~9,33          s 105,420.33
     35       120-15-002      Gror. Lyle TMICO g £1 Al                                        1Q05 u ...nor.                      MonloP•rfl      C4           114rn5 314 L)1ton                 01:90                                    0
                                                                                                                                  Polo Alla       CA    bl30l·.S38 330 l)11on                    0,075              20                    0                 26                20         Sll0.36Uo            $140,304.28
     JO       120.15-003      Ha!OS•U. H•"'f II. ond Sod#io M. TMI••                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          s105,273.21
     37       120.1$.004      401 Flonll!C•A•..olOIOSLTO                                      3970 """' ""SI
                                                                                               401 Ploroneo                       P•loMo          Cl\   IM3GI· 111l0 401 Flcranr:o               s.m                21                    0                 21                21         $105,273.21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                !              t           S5.0l3.0t            $5,013.0I
     30
     39
     40
              120-l&·OOS
              120.tS.OOG
              120-15-007
                              Oe!thgor, Domlhol e. TtU£1"
                              Etv Pa:rnll" Partnttrahlp, LP
                              Surge, Rldllltd G. Trust••
                                                                                               344 Miildlo Field Rd.
                                                                                              2101 Biyonl GI
                                                                                                 1 Kolsor PMto Sle 1450
                                                                                                                                  PoloAllo
                                                                                                                                  Po!oAlta
                                                                                                                                  OnktMCI
                                                                                                                                                  CA
                                                                                                                                                  CA
                                                                                                                                                  CA
                                                                                                                                                        ll4301·13H 3QO L111on
                                                                                                                                                        0001·3907 31111 Lytton
                                                                                                                                                        IJ.l612·31lOI 401 W3¥u~ey
                                                                                                                                                                                                   SOD
                                                                                                                                                                                                 l,lOll
                                                                                                                                                                                                 4,050
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       l6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               •0         $20,052-04
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S30.0ID.OO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               l20,b52-114
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               $30,078.0G

                                                                                                                                  Polo Alla       CA    114301.f$30      405 lllpllflll          3,134                 13                 0                 13                13          St\5,169.13 $115,189.13
     41        120.t&·OIO     Fkll A111orlt1n Tiiie Go•ronly Co.                               405IK1p11ngs1.
                                                                                                                                  Polo~ua         CA         114302      fBOL11ron               5.052                 24                20                  4                 ~          $20,052.0I $20,052-04
     42
     '3
               120.IS.Otl
               t20.IU·Ol2
                              n ..~. "'"'· Inc.
                              Tl-ollsUto.s. lrte.
                                                  <J••
                                                     """'~I                                          P.0.0oJ:21
                                                                                                     P.O.Sm<21                    Palo ARD        CA         04302       412L)11""                   0                   0                0                  0                 0                S0.00       so.oo
                                                                                                                                                                                                f0,05t                 10                 0                 10                70         $399,027.70 $300,027.70
     u         120-15-013     l.IPO Aawcl•le:J LLC                                            1001 lamm•r s1e 300                 lledM>od Clly   CA         IMOGl       420 Co"l'OI
     4S        120.1$-014      Tl>ol110m1.lnc.                                                       P.O. Bo• 21                  PoloAllO        CA         !J.1302     444 Cowper                  0                   0                0                  0                 0                    so.co           S0.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         u
     ,,
     18       12o.l&.Ql5
                l#O.IS-018
                               Thell• Oros. In<. (ooo nolo 4)
                              ,RRC A Llrnllod Ll•blllly Co.
                                                                                                     P.0.Bo• 21
                                                                                               tnlOnlotol'Stty Av
                                                                                                                                  PolcAllO
                                                                                                                                  PoloA!lo
                                                                                                                                                  CA
                                                                                                                                                  CA
                                                                                                                                                             0002
                                                                                                                                                             04101
                                                                                                                                                                         480 Unlver<!ly
                                                                                                                                                                         4V9 Unlvt11lly
                                                                                                                                                                                                10,301
                                                                                                                                                                                                 o,ta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       37                 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ~D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            35
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              35
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SI00.2e-0.1!0i $100,200.20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         JUS,455.!IS 1!75,455.35
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5G0,1Do.12 $00,1$0.12
     ••
      40
               llt>lll.011
               1211-1&·018
                               Kulvmln, enubClh A. tnatco & fHAl
                               Swain, Morlh• I'. TMloa & ei Al
                                                                                               170 ROU111gwaod or.
                                                                                              177~ Volpo111lso AY
                                                                                                                                  San Aotoel
                                                                                                                                  Monloporll
                                                                                                                                                  CA
                                                                                                                                                  CA
                                                                                                                                                        OlOOl· 1453      483 UnlvenUy
                                                                                                                                                         IMOZHOllO 451 Unlvtnlly
                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.005
                                                                                                                                                                                                 5,050;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       zc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          •
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            20,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              20         s 100.200.20 SI00,200.20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              so.oo
      Go       120-!0·019 Gueio,Mvma                                                         24915 la I.om~ Cl.                   Lon AllOS Hl111 CA     Ol022·1584 413.Klollnn                  2.81&                   0                0                     0               0               •MO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 "
Hole I: omlle jlatklng pn;•ldtid 1"1 APN 120.03-010 I• trodlled !Oiilb AP!!
Nole 2! - · Pilll<l"ll prvvkfad •• APll 120.0).111211 crodillld IC this APll
lloro 3: oru11• porlllng P'"'''°" on /\I'll 120.15-012 i. crodllod lo tl'lsAPN
Holts 4: nnsHo p111tdng piu..,lded 011 APN t20 •010.01.C Is crodllod lo lhfs llPN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
  As~eis1ncn1    Aneuors          OHT1efr.                                                        Mallin; AddtCH                                                              Siie              Sqtrt'l'O         Pn,,..1na           Parking          A.O. Parkin'       Plllt<lng         Ptollmlnlll)'       Fln:sl
     Hmnbfr      P;11n;if         ~l;imo                                                          llUnlb• t Street                   cnv             Sl:tlo ZIP               Add'rcn           Foologc           n"1Uk<'d            Provided         P1Mdo~11on         Benon1            l\'3CJ.ssmant       AucsS:mont
                 Numb<t                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Unit$
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2                              S10,02B.D2        $10,0Z0.02
        51       121l-IS·OZO      Thlllls Bros. Inc.                                                       ?.O.So•21                 Polo Mio       CA        0~302·002 1 ·131 Klpfl"IJ                1,lt~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '                 2                                    2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -
        52       120.1s.021       TI1Qtts eroo. Inc.                                                       PO.Box2t                  Polo Allo      CA        DJJ02·00ZI 431 Ktfl!ina                  2.729                    0                 0               0                    0              $0.00              to.oo
        Sl       121>-15·022      Ol'Mtz. DocolhY L !I Al                                             "" Do !ltlbln nd.              Bll~muot1      C4             IMOI 0 4l3Klpll11Q                  :us&2                   1;                 e                   0                0          S)Q,078.00       $30,010 00
        ~I       1.21>1$·0.1':1   Tl1olU Bros. lno.                                                  02U Ett111tt0nSf                Palo ~no       C4             !M300 ~11 Kllllino                  1.53J                    n                 0                   e           a U0.078.t»                      $30,0IG.Oo
                l.!Wk!W- ~~flllll)~~1,,. •. ,,,.;,_,,..,,•...,... ~--·~ ,__....                                      .Q>,...,~·~·- ~llllAQI·~ (I.;!,••.1-o~14'fa
                                                                                                                                                                              m. .                                                                                          ---,.1 ~ll:ll
E·""~~.....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ~


       l-6     llo.IS.020 Wnr<;i. J•ll!1' Truit.. A El Al                                                P.O.l'Jtn:'O•             Polo/,tlo  Ct,             Q.l;;o? •Z9 Unfvf.rtUv                   r.w•                    2P                 a              21                   21        st0.!121~2,! ~ios.m.z1.            :]
  f-··.,;7- •'ll11'""°2tl"" CJlllll~-~~tf.lll!111¢r.rl!lltH'&1:TAr···~·'"----·----                      -~3'or--·-~"\'I'"~~ ""IX"' -ll45~ m'lliMiilW'                                           -'"'"ti··                      It                 2              re                   16         SIW.21l8.18       .iiil.209.1U
       58      lW·1S OlO Sleare. aorblra F.                                                        10141 indlon Hnl Dt,            \Yelld     CA         GOOOl•04115  423Unlv01$1IV                  uea                        9                 1                   B                e         Sla.1°'4.08       S4D,10.f.08
       50      120. IS•Oll ~e1rondo,, Donald rrus1011 I Et Al                                        224 l\n1anRd                  ManlaPDlk  CA              !M025 415U.,,,.,.lly                    5,078                    23                 D              17                   tr         sos.:zn.11        $05,:Z.Zl.ll
       DO      120.15·0.12 Shonll!r, Elaine M. Trusteo                                              1320 country Club Or.          lolAllGG   CA         04024-5302 4D5Un!Ya"'1y                      &,5$0                    22                 1              21                   21        $105.213.21       s105.213.21

        01       121"15-0U        Mlthaola Ffawer Stv:lp                                             453   wov.-0\' SL               PoloAlta    CA           04301•17.ID 453W..cdey                        oso                 3                 a                   3                3         St0.039.0l SIS.03'.Dl
        62       120.16-1)34 Haley. l<•lhloon e;, Truoloo & El Al                                    170 P.ol!'>OV'>ood Dr.          Sanllo!nd   CA           041lOH•53 '30W3v"1l•Y                    7,2611                  20                 0              2~                   20        $145.377.20 $145,317.20
        OJ       120.15-0;?D ChltdrHlh Jlthn 9. Et AJ.                                                   POiio• eso                  P•IDA!lo    CA                 91302     ~UWll'lcrioy             t.m                      0                 0               0                    0                $0.00            to.oo
        ~        120.ts.o:ir Clllldto£o. l<illhryn A. El Al                                              PO tlo< OSB                 PeioA!ta    CA                 9~02      ODWove~oy                 mo                      0                 0               0                    0                so.oo           1000
        es       l~MS-Ol.O   Fram, Allcv G. Tlll>lae A El Al                                        4155 S.W. South Shore BL         Lake Ot"°'n OR                91033 122Wave~ey                    3,G90                   10                 0              10                   18         SBQ.208.18        SB0.209.rn
        BG       iio.IS-030 Holl•nd. J\tlhUr L. and Jone M.                                         10'7 RamDnD St.                  Pa!OAllG    CA           04301·2444 dBWmedoy                      3.218                    0                 0               0                    0                so.no            10.00
        DI       120-15·040 John Chlld1011 Assodotes                                                       i>oeoxese                 PsloAllo    CA                04302 OllWovadey                    2,845                   tt                II                   0                0                so.oo            to.Oii
        OD       120.15·041. Chlldresi. l<olhrynA. El Al                                                   POiio> 1159               PaloAllO    CA                04303 303 Unlvo111lly               3,82$                   15                 0              15                   IS         $rS,11!5.15       $75.1&5.15
        GQ       l20.1S.04?. AIJl'p, ltoty H, And J.tlcholfo R. Tni"ll!e                                   P.O.Do• 1072              PaloAllD    CA           0430M072 379Untvltl1lly                  3,0QO                   16                 0              te                   16         Sllo.200.IO       $00,20ll.IO
        70       l:0.15.ol3 11•1'11. Roxy II. Tn~Co & El Al                                                P.O. Dax 1672             PaloAllo    CA           114302·1012 :115Uolvtmnv                 e.m                     33                 0              33                   33        $UIM2UJ           SlllS.429.31

        71
        72
                 120-IS.044
                 1211-15.045
                                  S,,.,y, Can>llno I'. TMIOO
                                  Mosonlo Tompto          Ass•.
                                                                                                       ~Cl-nlPI.
                                                                                                           P.o.eox 1000
                                                                                                                                     MenlOPO!k
                                                                                                                                     PllGAftc
                                                                                                                                                    CA
                                                                                                                                                    CA
                                                                                                                                                              llt025•3'14 3DIUlll,1tt1Uy
                                                                                                                                                              SJ4302·teeci 3ssun1....11r
                                                                                                                                                                                                       uoo
                                                                                                                                                                                                     33.$30                   ,,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10                 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                131               l:M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1         $35,0!11.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5071,743.35
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   435.CGl.OI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  $071,743.~

        73       120.15-IMO       Molonit b;my f'1ropc.r11co, L.P.                                   <31 FIOICl>OO SI. SI• 220       PolOAho        CA        Q.430"17\lil 431 Flmn:o                 5,783                    Z3                 0              17                   11         SBS.m.n           sns.m.11
                                                                                                                                     P11DA110       CA              04301 .C20f:'l(mJl1CO             0,7'0                    35                 0              35                   35        1175,415.35       Sl1G,Clli.3~
        74       i20.1s.040       D•""'"· Oolo H..... Haney s. Et Al                                 250 Unlvo1$llY AV SI• 200
        75       12MS.OSO         Glovannollu, Sal••loro on:f Slello Tni•I                               P.O.Boxll0117               Pnlll Alla     CA             .nma 33V Unlvo11lly               10.llOO                   43                 0              43                   43        $215,SSP.43       $215,559.43
                                                                                                     431 FIOID/11:8 SI. Sin 220      PaloAlln       CA        9001·1700 32.JUtt!vMSHy                  B,,20                   25                 0              25                   25        $12!1,325.2!1     $125.325.25
        70       120-15·051       MelnnlD Diltl"' Propc-rUos. LP.
        71       t20.1s.osi.      Melanie Barry Pro°'rUes, L.P.                                      431 Flotenea SI. Sto 220        Polt!Atto    CA          IM30M70!l 317 Untvmlty                  s.2:so                   21                 0              21                   21        5105,211.21       $1CS,i73.21
                                                                                                                                                                    114101 301 Unt;onilly            20,01G                   110                20              OB              . 9ll          5401.248.~        $401,24P.07
        78
        79
                 "1).11).053
                 120.IS·OSI
                                  We?11 Faruo U:ink Corporalo Ptapr.rtkt Croup attn: Jen And'm
                                  Sho0tor, Elalno M. EIAI
                                                                                                     03l Fclsam Strtol, Uth Flo:it
                                                                                                         P .o. ea. 34187             !•"'""''""'
                                                                                                                                     Hov"on
                                                                                                                                                  CA
                                                                                                                                                  TX          n:l.34-.4'81 301 Untvanlty                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                a                 a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        $0.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        so.co
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         so.oo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         lo.co
        00       120..t5·055      We!I& FalQa Dank CGmot.'lfa PrapMlcs GmitP attn: Jett l\odar       833 FolsomSltoo1.6lhfloor       Banfroncl'oo CA                n4101 301 Unlvcrslly                                        0

                                                                                                                                                              ~130M031        310U1dvorsl1y          ZD.$3U                   118                 I              111              117           $980,522.18       $5Btl,522.10
        er       1io.•s.ost       300 Unl11oralti' Asr.cdates                                        172 Unlvor>JlyAv                PafDAllD       CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  02                            5310,008.62       ll ID,809.82
        82       120.15·058       Crrms1on, Alon Tn1&loo & et Al                                         P.O. Do• 120                fl..oARo       CA              9~301     318 Unlversur          18,342                    05                 3                                   82
                                                                                                     122 Hnm111on Av                 PalCJAno       C/\             1'4301    330UnlvMlly             0,1®                     33                 3               30                  30        G1$0,300.30       5150,300.:tO
        83       120-l&·OGn       llonno, M•rinnno L. lllld Pulflh.1m LY11nl. El Al
                                                                                                                                     PolOA!lo       CA        S4302•Q2111     340 Unlver£11Y         10,030                    01                 0               07                  01        S335,07 l.87      $335,071.07
        U4       120.15-060       Wa"C1. Jaime :a.nd Elb:nbolh H. Tn11tuo                                  P.O.l'Jo•ZO•
                                                                                                                                                              U43D1'17t5      370Unlva11llr           3.850                    15                 0               IS                  15         $70.105.16        $7',105.15
        85       120.IS·OBZ       Slonkovlc, triodo Truolet A Et Al                                  620 91\'fnlSlrott               PolllAllO      CA
                                                                                                                                     PeloAOo        CA        0430M07'2       374 Unlvor.olly          2.n37                   12                 0               12                  12         SS0.150.12        $60.158.12
        RB       12o.IS.Otl!I     Ropp, ROJY H. """Wdlel'.t) R. Tnllle•                                   l'.O. 11<1x 1072
        01       120.15·004       Toyn. Yoshlinl!OU lln1 TOkako TMt••                                320 erll!QeRd                   HIUsboroU!Jh   CA        Q.IDIO.OOlt     38?Utllve1'/ly           3,57~                   u                  0               II                  14         $70.1112.14       no.m.11
        eo       l:!fl.15-085     Levol~ cennls A El Al                                                   P.O.Box 1072               Palo Allo      CA        "'1302·1612     3114 Unlvorslly        14,250                    57                 0               51                  sr        sw5,m.57          S285.l4f.57
        eo       12o.15·00G       sion.:o Pmporiliia Carp                                               2 CMcPIW!Unll IDD            llov.l>Oll Bt•dl CA      92600.51127.    •DO Unirnslty          10,855                    GI                28               39                  ae        $185,507.39       S!OU01.3D
        DD       12o.IS-001       kDngM'°ctlllnoJrn:.                                                115$ Atma SI.                   P..ol\llo        CA            11-13Dt   420 Unl>01tlti         ID,•U                     74
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  •               70                  10        saso.01o:ro       $350,910.70

                                                                                                     :IOO lD cuoslo Or.              Lo1Allor.      CA        0402•4748 4$2 Unl11e1slly                O.OOH                   ~2                 0              32                   ~2       SI00.410.32 SICll.4 ID.32
        01       121).15·000      ~~ogy.   CJ1nrlcc. E.   ttnd Matth;1 TtU~IOt'
                                                                                                     700 Emoncn St.                  ro1oi1110      CA        11-13Dl·z.tl0 45l!Unl,1111lly          :Z.Z.450                  lltl               Q              VO                   !Kl       $451.170-llO $451,170.DI
        92       121).15·009      P•lo Allo t healm Ccrpor.1\!011
                                                                                                     431 Flo"""'° 91. Slo 220        P1laAl!O       CA        94301"1700 400llnlvOISlly                7,1114                  31                 0               31                  31        $155,403.31 5155.403.31
        93       120-15-070       BOllY. Fr•nk R. Jr. Trull..
                                                                                                        lllal!HillCI.                SaoFron<Uco    CA             11-1108 180l/nl;amly               t5,0tt2                  OJ                 0               03                  OJ        !315.819.83 UtS.010.03
        ~l       120.15-071       UlllVl<>llf p,.>l<lanl Allsocs. UC
        05       1»15·072         C:OV.'Per Squ-n Pmtntt1 t.'D Web~cr FltWt:lnl                      425 Wnvtrlers11..r              PaloAllo       CA        Q.4301·1923 520C•i.pcr                 07,1114                  2lil               !14            205               m           $1,027,GeT.oe $1,1>:!7,GOl.lltl
       oe        120.15-013       CHy ol Palo AllO (C<>Wpe1·H:unlllon Lall Oline Mr. Joo S•cc!•      :zso Hammon 4th floor           Palo Alto      CA             1>131)1                                   a                  0                 0                   0                0                SD.OD            to.no
        97       m.1s-oi4         LOtMolnc,                                                           172 W. Unlvo!iRy Av.           Palo Ano       CA        ~4301-1831 Ml C<r•ll1!'                 O,elO                    v                  0               21                  27        $136,351.27       S1:J5,351.V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  $315,819.BJ
                                                                                                     :m llanlORlli>AV                Polo Alto      CA        0•3Dl•3942 49aHom111on                 1$,768                    03                 0               83                  63        SllS.810.83
       ~s        120-15.ars       O:w.-p11t·H.1mlUon A£SDc:falU
                                                                                                                                     CupMlno        Cl\       9&014·5219 401 H:unlllan                e.12a                    33                 0               33                  33        s 105,429.33      $1115.42G.33
       09        120.IS.076       Halez1, elldmlinmon R. and 1.1ai1oro                              1530 Leed•A•
                                                                                                                                     Polo Alto      CA             94300 4GOHnmlllon                 1•.000                    so                 0               60                  GO        S2D5,1C17.S9      $295,707 .5~
       lllll     121).15.077      Glov1mnotla, Sol-volo10 on;f SleJhi Tmfit                               P.O. Do• 00177

       101       130·15-078       Dalol)la>, Donnld It and t.IOl)i!llon k. lrusl                    23ll0 TOHO SI.                   PataAl!o      CA              04301 43SHoinltton                  uoa                     21                 0               21                  21        $105,273.21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        so.oo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SIOS.273.21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SOl,10
                                                                                                          P.O.Bo<322                 J')l)!DAflo              94301·0312 555 l'lo•M&y                22.4'0                      0                0                0                   0
       102       130.16·079       All Snlnto Epl...,p>I Church                                                                                     Cl•                                                                                                                                                                   Sll.0.1
                                                                                                                                                              92&$0-5022 S3S 1/11111c"cr                  0                      0                0                0                   0                ~o.co
       103       120.15-(!BO      SIMCO Pn>Mtlles Coll!                                                 2 Cfylc Pio."' Uni! IBO      "°"'"°~ D"'ch CA
                                                                                                                                     U•-JtSo:Jeh CA           01eao.so22 s1swa.vc:rta11                   0                      0                0              . 0                   a                •o.oo            SO.QI?
       UM        120.IS.Oot       s1w--    Prot>t:~rlfr.' Cora                                          2Chll<Pl11.10Un11180
  t.teta s: orrtlla p:i11it110 prcwl~tdan A-P~J t20.t5.o55 ls czedllcd to lhb tile




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ~
A1&essrn1m1 ftHl!ISO(S         owners                                                                   Malling Addrm                                                                    Silo             SQu;ua           Po~               rori<t"'l           AO, Parnlng            Parl<lng        Ptcllmln:uy         nnal
                                                                                                                                                                                                          r:oot.;)Qe       RcquttO<l         PIO\'ll'ftd         J>.;rl!ic!p;iUon       Bt'nant         Ms'C~~me~           A1.t~sin~nl
   Uurnbor    Parcel           Nnine                                                                    Numbt?rSfmt1                         City             Slol Q' :Zip               AddrrJh
              N11mbe'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Unlls
     105      1ao.1s.01r1      Dcrucn, DOie H. """ llaJICY K                                                      P.0 DO> 389                P.11'!!At:.(r    CA         04302·0)10 SIOW:1vorll!'y              2.852              11                       4                   1                  1 --·~ ·-~
     10fl     121).15·oaJ      Haff>clo!r, Edw;lnl D. 111 El Al                                           !1&8$   l'loodsld• Ad.             Woodr.ldn        CA         01002-3lM3 520Wovcrtey                 B,75Z              35                       f                  34                  34       s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            uo.44a.34        Stl0,44n4
              120.15·084       Edcls.telri, Ctmrtao R, and S;irn J, Tnu.1oa-                              m e VallcJOSl.Unll4                  Sanf1011t1sco CA          lll12J.411G11 5eiOWnv~rti:y            1,050              32                       I                  31                  31      1155.403.31       i1ss,4au1
     101
     100      120.15·085
               120-15-0H
                               Jalmo Wong and P.ll1:aboth Hnn Shu Wong TMlflCS
                               c11y of Palo Allo {Hnrnuton.Wa'iarlr Lot) attn: Jot? S:aa:IO
                                                                                                               roo.. 20.                       POIOAllo
                                                                                                           250 H'i1trtUtOf'I Avenue .Clh FlooI Poiol\ilo
                                                                                                                                                             CA
                                                                                                                                                             CA
                                                                                                                                                                                11'!02 !UK> Yln••>rfo)'
                                                                                                                                                                                 91301
                                                                                                                                                                                                               II.GOO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ••
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ••
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           $230.S99.40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   $0.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             $230,508.40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              $0.00
     "'"
     110      l:Z0.15-0W       Fell. Tom R. TtUSIOO I El Al                                                  s
                                                                                                         1311 SlMcwlP                          t1uclto1>     CA                  DB!BI 31SH•mlll0n              0.07P              30                       0                  3Q                  30       Slll0,468.30 $180,llUB

     Ill      120.15-0!ll      H11nsan, P.o1ul J, int1lae                                                 1035 UenRooAv                      lctl\llCI        CA         IM024;0241 '41 e1y.1n1                 B,740              35                       0                  3&                 :I&      Sl75.45S.3S $115,45$.!5
                               Promltt Pmpan101 rlo Mr. Jim Saar                                           112 Un1Yut$111• Avonuo            PalaAllc         CA             04301 $20lllyanl                  45,600             182                       0                ·102                182       $912,307,~ $012.307,G:I
     112      1:0:15-004
     113      1izQ.ti!-<l!Je   City QI PQIO Alie (FIOICOCIJ.Litlon Loi) Dlln: Joe Saccfo                   250 HamlllanAvenue •th F!Oor      Pl!laAllo        CA               IM3DI                                 0              0                       0                   0                   0             so.oo            S0.00
     111      121).IS.100      City or Palo Alla lllilon-Klptlng lcl) tlllo: Jo• Sor.do                    250 HamlllonAvonue41hFlcct        Pa!oAllo         CA              !M!OI                                  0                  u                   0                   0                   0            $1).C)Q           suo
     U5       1%0.15-101       Wu.Row•naS.                                                                 Sli CthA·1                        61111Frunr:l1w   CA         04116-3714 431W•venoy                 10,UiO              44                       I                  40                 •o        H00,52D.40  $100.S20.10
     110      l:lo.15·102      P~dflc B,.I Aaotl Elt;lo Oflica                                            2000 C1:1mlna R:.morJRm 3E:ID2     sanRMian         CA              04531 1•0 Hnmlllon              101,8110            408                       0                 402                402      U,015,230.0l $2,015.230.IM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 us
     117
     110
              l:lo.111-103
               1~,Q.IS.11»
                               Si,.,..UVIC, Al.. Ollllnr •nd FrlOdO Trusleo
                               cllr ol P•la AllO !Drr•m·FloroncO/llrranl·lyilon Loi) DIUi: Joa S•cct•
                                                                                                           528 Brynn! SI                     Po!ol\ilc
                                                                                                           250 t·h1n1mon A.v1111uo 4th ~loar PoloAllo
                                                                                                                                                              CA
                                                                                                                                                              CA
                                                                                                                                                                         0•30l•l70l 300UnfYerilly
                                                                                                                                                                              9<301
                                                                                                                                                                                                               31,0IS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0,100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  136
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   32
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              135
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               32                  ,2      $B7D,75UB IB7U.?G8.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           $tll0,41B.l2 St00.41B.l2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   so.co
     110      120-15-1°'       GlovOMDflo, hl;"11110 anrJ Sloll• Tru~                                             l'.O.llox60177             P;ioAllo         CA               1143DIJ                           l,\ll$                 0                   0                   0                   0              so.co
     120      120-IS.IOll      Glovonoolto, Sol•nlcru w Stello Trutl                                              P.O.Do•OOl77               P.,toft~o        CA               '114300 $35l!ryoM                 2,580             10                       0                  to                  I!        $50, 130.10      sso.1:io.10

     1~1      l:lo.lfl.002     Polo Alto Pell OIRCC                                                        3SO Hnmlltcn Avenuo               PoloAllo         CA               04302 3BOHamtUon                 IU31               40                      ta                  20                  28      St40,3114.2U $140,3114.28
     122      120-111-021      lovoll, Denn~ A.                                                                P.O.Sod2D                     PnloAlio         CA               04302 1120 Wovcrtey               3,000                  0                   D                   a                   0             so.oo        $0.00
     123
     124
              120-111-022
              1ao.1e.023
                               Rlld<or. Douolu W. imd !la•no• L TN'1..
                               Rudutt. Douglas V/, llnd f!ltollOr l. Trull""!••• rolo OJ
                                                                                                           640 t.fonb AY $10 to
                                                                                                           1140 Menlo Av Slo 10
                                                                                                                                             MonloP~lfl
                                                                                                                                             MonloPn1k
                                                                                                                                                              CA
                                                                                                                                                              CA
                                                                                                                                                                         0402:S-ol?l2    ~aYl:iverfoy
                                                                                                                                                                         !J.10254712 114VWovtlloy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.37,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1;&20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            •8                  ·I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  U.o<l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S0,00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S0,00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               $000
     125      120-lfl.024      Amanee tor ccmmunat Catt1                                                   00 ti. Whilo Rd.                San Jo~            CA               osm ($UW1Wtlloy                   4,761                  D                   0                   0                   a       $05,241.24         so.oO
                               City ol Palo Alla (Ollma,,.w;wedylcn 11110: Jo1soccto                       250 HllllllllcnAvenuo 4111 Noor Po!oAllo           CA               1M301                                   D                0                   0                   0                   0             $0.00        $0.DO
     120      120.10.029
                                                                                                                                                                         OC30t•2410 054 Ollmon                  1,575                   0                   t                   G                   5       $2$,005.05 525.D!IS D5
     m        1:io.10.1i32     lloenan, Cha~o& J, Ill Trvslco g e1 Al                                      100 emo1110n st.                PaloAllD           CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            $80,IOll.10 SB0.20i!.1C
     i~u      120.,10.0!~      lovell. tlnlllll> A.                                                            P.O. Dor 4ZO                  PllicAllO        CA               04302 a.cs·Farim                 3,005                  Ill                  0                  16                  IG
     1211     120.lfl.034      First Chlln:h ol Clulsl Sdaolb1 of P•lo Mc                                  801 SryanlSI                      PoloAUo          CA         1!4301·2502 O!Ullryonl                11.121                   0                   0                   0                   0             !Q,00            sooo
                               trvfnu, Perry A. W ltomla}'•lrvlne Undn                                     635 SiyDnl SI                     PaloAllo         CA         114301·2502 035Siyonl                  4,0l8                  10                   I                  IB                  18        SDO,Ul.18        SD0.234.10
     130      1ZO.lfl.OI~


     131      120-J0.03&       Hnmllfon Alttodl'rlas 300                                                   700 em•n:on SI.                   PllloAlio        CA         04301·2410      027 Dl)'llnl                0                  0                   0                   0                   D          $0.DO                SO.OU
     132      120.10-005       CHv ol P•lo AllO IGllmon.eiy•nl loo 1111n: Joo Sacdo                        250 Hnmllfon Avcmua 4tll floar PllloAllo           CA              1).1301                                0                  0                   0                   0                   0           $0.00               so.co
                                                                                                                                                                         0430f·i!:•IO300H•mlllcn               41,509             11111                    51                 IOll                IOi      S54U18.IO         1~40.4 IB. ID
     133      120-1(1.(198     li•mlllon A!IOClolos 300                                                    100 &me11.on SI.               Pllioi\llo          CA
                                                                                                         ICCl)5                                               CA         115310.0411 !Ollomon>                       0               0                      0                   0                   0             $0.00             $0,00
     134      12'1-25-071      Knop/, Kormll M. tru"•• & El Al                                                    K"""'                      SOlll>(l!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               23                          s115.2119.23      $115.:191123
     135      1;!().2&·aff     Kidder. W. Jatll el Al                                                     3105    SloolRd                    Petibl11 Pooch CA                01053  l!1L1t1an                  9,?'1?             23                       D                                      23
     136      120.u..too       Uohl...,loln Prupe~l•• lP                                                  5001    C:futlll<t Av. Un!I 07!i   em~ryYll/IJ      CA              041JOB 131Litlon                  3,671                  1G                   s                  10                  10        $50.130. 10      $5o,130.IO
                               Jack Dyn>Drd AU•..                                                          450    Fl111Dt.                   LosAllll~        CA         0~022·3600 la7Ly11Dn                    4,0SQ                 ID                   0                  10                  18        $05.:141.19      595.247.19
     ta!      120.25·110
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  :o.oo
     138      120-25-111       Ferr:1ndo. Oon:d<f ond Oline e. Trusl•o                                     224    •td4nnd                    Munlo Pail<      CA              QI025 IOIL)llOn                    2.282                  a                  I~                  ·0                   0                               $0.00
                                                                                                                                                                         05310.11471 ~IJOBrron<                  •.240                 11                   0                  11                  17        Sll!.1.21.11     $115.121.17
     130      120.25-118       Wehlter Dlh'rJapn,t.nts Inc El Al                                         U465
                                                                                                                  """'"l.n                   Sonora           CA

                                                                                                                                                                              IM30I      205 Ly11on             ID.117             75                      17                  50                  SD       l2D0,7S.Ui0 $200,754.GB
     ten      120.25·110       Wob1let Sotmo ASIOcl•I••                                                    250 Unlvo..i~· Av Slo 200         PllloAllo        CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S205,0DM3 $2115,GaU.53
     141      120.-25-13~      ~os ll•mlilon """"""' PorttJollhlp, l.P.                                    405 Alba1lo \.\'y. Sto 5          Loso,..,         CA              05032      1B1Lynon               IP,738                 70                  20                  83                  53
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SMO          10.00
     142      120.2S.150       fhO<IOQ J RlthartJ 8 llortqo l«lly Tru                                       114 AIJoJondro                   Athirlon         CA         11402,-4107     312Rllmon•              l,C51                  0                   2                   0                   0
     10       1Z0.2S.ISI       111..1noJ. Rl<ha'11 i ll•ncyKo!ly '"'                                        114 Mtl#ndra                     All1'11DO        CA         04027·4107      31 RomonoSI                0                   0                  0                    0                   0              so.cc            so.cc
                                                                                                                                                                         Ol301·4220      24SL)tlon             S'-OIXI            220                    150                   10                  10       £350,0to.70      $35o.&t0,70
     144      120.25-152       2•5 l\llon Ava P•n lP                                                      10M &OSI Moodow Cl,                P•io.\Jlo        CA
     149      120.2(1.002      Drmn. Joano11a hi,                                                               P,0, Bo•40l                  MDynord          M~         01151o()t04     ~02 High              20.050                   0                  0                    0                   0              so.DD            SO.OD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IT                                      IT                  17        sos.221.11   sos,221.11
     ICO      120.20.003       Ol~son, G. 01cw Jr, Truslce A~I Al                                           so s. Morltel SL Unll #1120      S•n.lo&n         CA              99113      ~01    Hlah             4,:Jl)O                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  $000          $0,00
                               Cllr ol P•lo All• 1em01son·Lytlon LOI) •1111! Jo• Sncclq                    251 HamlUanAvenueollh Floor       PnloAllo         CA              1M3DI                                 0                   0                  0                    0                   0
     141      120.20.005
                                                                                                            75 E, TrlmlM Rood l.IC4100                        CA         1)'301·1'21     250L1flon             28.31M              lt3                     511                 51                  51       $2115,141.Sl 528.5,741.57
     148      120.20.cm        camerico Bank .c.tnlomia oun: L1dto A, Esplnlo"                                                               SilnJo••
     140      120.2So«lll      Kl"IJCI, Don>ld II. Trustee g El AJ ~'I! k•en:tn Llllld Co,                 100 Emetton Sttt!ct               Polo Mo          CA              04!01      281 Unl.•r$11V        15.000              l!O                      0                  t\O                 oo       1300,IB?,00 $300.18080

                                                                                                                  P.O. Po• 21                PaloAllo         CA                04302 211Ut1hlei•llr            3,HO                   13                   0                  13                  1$        SOS,160.13 Sll!;IOQ,13
    150        12fl.2(\.0® TMll• srvs. Inc.
                                                                                                          aos tlowdllld.                     PoloAllll        CA         !J.130).2640 :01Urrlv~lly             10,780              43                       0                  43                  43       1215.559.43 1215.550.(3
    151        120.211-010 Amol, Edward P, Tnr&lr.a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          $00.234.10 sll0.234.18
                                                                                                           420    n11monas1.                 PaloAllo         CA         04301·1107 OBRaOlllnn                  4,408                  !8                   0                  10                  19
    152        120.20.013 Eng. Joel! L. El Al                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  75                           5315.915.15 5315.075.75
                                                                                                           Ut   Unhrfl~lf' Ave.              Pa1oA.llo        CA         n•30M112 221Vnlvr"11y                 10,ll<lll               7$                   0                                      75
     153       120.20-01• Sl"'1fonl Thtt:lh."r tout!d~lort                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         15        S!S,t~.15   $75,195.15
                                                                                                           ll$O l~rntl\FlrttSt.              S1mJoso          CA         ll:lll2'5109 UORamona                  3.076                  15                   0                  15
     15;       IZ0.20.015 Fl11non;i Auod~h.•1
     155       12(1.21.\oOIO      ltario Dorney •ml Yeung                                                   50 C<lllO Lnro                   WDOd11<10        CA         IMC62•2418 450Rnrnono                  2,IM6                   8                   0                       a               a        $40,tOtDB $40,1(14,0S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    e        $45.117.09 145,117.00
                                                                                                                                                                         O:S'471·04G9 n.onomono

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ..
                                                                                                          37115 SumAllioRd.                  Srtb.,lopol      CA                                                2,212               0                       0                   0
     158       121J.2fl.017 Hallacl<. nc11 Tiu1100 & El Al                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3D                  38       $lll0,40UB $1G0,401,30
                                                                                                           548    ~oilJAllo                  Polo Ano         Col        IW301·1220 23!Unlvo,.lly               0.101              30                       0
     157       120.211-0ID Miiii. Fr.> Irk H. •nd SIUrlar A Trosl••                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          •00.231.10 ~_,iu
,___m          1»20.010 Rud<lf Douala• VI. Olld Eleanor L Truueo                                           IUO lk-'- Av Sia 10               MtnklPl'Jrk      CA         Gl02~m 1•21 Unl•rin.ll\I                4508              1a                       0                  ID
                                                                     lo
!Iola Gi lln<ll• p~lifn<:i ,,...vld.a coAPll 120·0l&.02.21!.ciedlttd lilts APll




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             }:;
 Auossmlt'AI A:ut1sr.orn      °"'1o~S                                                     Moiling Addtt?'l                                                                  Siio               !iqu;1ro       P.1riJt'{f          Pcrl1l:-.a         A.O. P;rl<lnp       Pmr.lro         Pteilmlnaiy       Fina!
   IA1111IW   Pittcof         H•~                                                         llumb" 811001                          City              ~1me   ZI:>              ~dd..Jt            fOOlt:Je       R£."Qllltl'd        PEO\'i;f!M         P•rltlclj):>Uon     Bonan1          Auanm~nt          A'"cumtnt
              I-lumbar                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    UC111S
     150      120,211-020     Polll:o Coff09e al S••Ulf ol rmno                             1Dl!5 No-LP                          Ptcsa:m           AZ            88303 200 un1.011nr               17,085                  AB                  0                  •n               48       1240.824.48     mo.02ue
      180     110-211-021     Critlen<Jon, HoY;ard B. fll Trustee                            117 HODlhorOt.                      Alhorlon          CA        94027·2110 201 UnlvoraUy               7,?41                  29                  0                  20               20       SUS.37'.29 $14!.377.29

     181      UC\.26-Cl:.?Z   01:J1vJt,Jame• A. Md Undo                                       500 Co111erOr                      PoloAUo           CA        94301·3101 143EmtlSOn                  5,426                  22                  0                  lU               2l       $110.211ll2l SltUIM2
     !Ill?    IZ!l-20.023     Pahc Aparuneni. Inc.                                           m ~lm•St                            Palo Mo           C\        IM301·2fQJ 431Ema"°"                  IMoO                    12                  0                  42          • 42          11210.510.42 mo.sio.42
     103      t2MD·02S        li.i st.tU. Co'iot'"" c1.;i,,, R. TAJtloO                        T llfllyL.,..                     AllM!tum          CA        &<021.slOI ooemt,son                   2,i;oa                 12                  0                  12               12        seo.m.12 $60,1511.12
     104      120-211-oze     Alto P•IO Tlieo~o Co.'llOlllioA                                 700&..,.,.nSl                      PltlaAllO         CA        94301·2410 noemeMn                     0,025                  24                  0                  24               24       $12fU1ll.21 $120,312.1'
     105      120.21>(1?7     Clly ol Polo Alla (Enoo,...,;Hlph lol) ottn: Joe S.,,..         2JD   H~on A'fcnue 'th t·loet      Pn!oAllO          CA             \11301                                  0                 0                  0                   0                0              so.co      SD.OD
     t6G      120.211-021     Sunthf~ fnveslment Company                                    2332 s.c.wt                          Palo Alla         CA        04301-1235 !85 Unlvc11Ry               8.050                  27                  0                  27               27       $13U91.27 Sl35,35UI
     107      120-20.020      Hortacl<er. aemlnlld J. Jt El Al                               m Unl'!iillYA•                      Palo Alla         CA        D430t.1033 111 urn. ...ny              7,401                  30                  0                  30               30       SUUl>0.30 $190,311"'30
     108      1211·~.fl.030   E1narsm1 Unrv~l$it)' lnvo,lmcntt LP                             UlS UnlwMllY"Av                    PotoAllo          CA        04:J~t·tD:S$   iO' Unlvo11tty          11,W.S                 30                  0                  ~o               30       SI00,400.38     SIOD.4011.~0

      1811    IZt\-20.031     m Unlvonlly A., LlC                                             151 U,,i.atsllyAv                  PtiJo-Afto        Cl\       IM30lol03: m un1..11111               17,590                    70                0                  70               to       nso.e10.10 $3$0.010.70
      110     12\f.20.032     Jeh:wlh'4 Wlll'IDl!llW Palo Allo N Cong 0                     210~  PlllOotsAv                     PDIDAllo          C/I       ouo:i:zozo 429HIGh                     4.230                     0                0                   0                0             So.DO      SO.OD

     111      120-20.033      Athono Bnlltpr!SIU llC                                         655 Ofl/8111 St1aol Unll 811        pnlOAllo          Cl\             04031 425Hil!h                  13,110                  52                  0                  52               52       $200.070.52 S:lll0,07852
     172      120.211-03•     Fo•nndo. Donald and Olano E. Tn1&lea                         20725 Volley Gmon Or. Slo 200         CllP'llllno       CA        05014·1703 rn HIOh                     4,905                  20                  4                  10               1G        $80,208.10 ID0.208.10
     113      120.20.031      Koch, PhllilS V. TNllco                                      20010 PoloHQltOr,                     Lo5 AllOS Hiits   CA              MOU 135 Unhlu111ly               0,007                  35                   0                 35               3&       5171,450.35 1175,455,35
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            $205.533.4 I 5205.533.41
     174
     175
     110
              120.20.030
              12"'20.030
              120.:lilo042
                              OM Twenty Fl•• UnlvMllY LTD P411nor
                              SaoarPortnota
                              Tenn)Un, Rabett H. rru,u:u~ t.     e1 Al
                                                                                             125 Unlva11ny Av
                                                                                            2105 Gmenwn)'lODflvo
                                                                                             ::100 A\IOUSI Ct.
                                                                                                                                 P:JloAllo
                                                                                                                                 Woodlldo
                                                                                                                                 M11ntoP::11k
                                                                                                                                                   CA
                                                                                                                                                   Cl\
                                                                                                                                                   CA
                                                                                                                                                             04301-1030 12U Untva11lly
                                                                                                                                                                   l>llm 117 Unl••fllly
                                                                                                                                                             o.t0l5-SD:O 110 Unlvatslly
                                                                                                                                                                                                   10,137
                                                                                                                                                                                                    a,sao
                                                                                                                                                                                                    2,800
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0                 41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3•
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   34
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            $110.tf"42.'34 $170,442.34
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             $50,130.10 $50,130.10
     177      120.20.0.13     Mtlauohlln, Holbetl                                            222 VollO)o SI.                     SanF11ncls"'      CA        U41tl•1622 124 Ulllvcrslly            t4.G8S                  OD                  0                  00               DO       UOD.160.00 S3D0,780.DO
     170      1:zti.21J.044   High SllOOI PmJo..                                             700 E""'ISOflSt.                    Pn~ Alla          CA        t>.1301·2410 13DUnl•a111ty            13,325                  n                   0                  93               $3       S?llS,D00.33 $285.GBU3
     170      1211-:m.04s     n10na Bios. tne.                                                   P.O.DoHI                        P11l0Allo         Cl\             IM302 IWUnlv011lly              24,033                  00                  0                  f)g              00       $400.201.011 1411!1.287.90
     110      12fl.21S.C"10   Huynh TU Ho and VI Hue Lo                                     2QB7 c,_ILn.                         sn11Jor.a         CA        05123-111:18 100\Jnlvo,.lly             21100                   ff                0                  II               11        $55.143.11 m.m.11

     181      120.20.011      H413ml·Fan!N;gtf1Tnutee g El.al                                170 UnlvorsllyAv                    PaloAl!o          CA       wo1-1e31        l70Unl••lllly           O,Z!IO                 25                  a                  25               2!l      Sl25.32~25      1125,325.25
     182      1211-20.Q.IO    eu, J1111111 ~ and Oraca L                                    1937 AT1dlyRd                        S;11Jo11t         c~             05122     112 Urll•o111lly        7,11!0                 32                  0                  32               32       ueo.<10.n       $160.&18 32
     183      ·~l).2Q.OS.     Toyo, Yo&hlmlt•u •nd Tal<el<o 0. Tnlll,.                       320 Brld9eRood                      HllltboOOUl)h     CA       04Dtfl.U912     mUnlve1tHr             10,000                  40                  0                  40               40       5200.520.40     $i00,520.40
     181      120.2fl.055     Toyo. Yolll~mluu ond Ta~••• D, TMI..                           320 Bridge Rood                     Hnltbcn>ut1h      CA       1)4010.1)\)la   2lO!Jnlvol'llty         1.m                    lO                  0                  00               30       &150.1ll030     $1$0.3ll0.30
     tllS     12o.21l-051     POlricl.J;mul.I.                                                39 Chllries Hiii Ct.               Orin~•            CA       0.1503-IQOI     270Unlyer;ily          10,000                  40                  0                  40               40       Uoo.62040       mo.szo.•o
     18£1     12<'20-080      N>vy, CMrioa E. ond Martha TMloo                               300 LJiCutsl.aOr,                   LosAP.0$    CA             0402"4748       aro Unlvo"'IY          IB,!100                 72                  0                  72
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   64
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            U&M3D.72
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            $270.101.S.f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            t:1eo.D3a.72
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S27G.702.54
     107      120.20.001      Stantuwl<:. WH~am El Al                                        520 Dl)'ant SI.                     PMIAl1o     CA             1).130f.1T03    S2211t:YMI             13.505                  $4                  Q
     11111    120-211-002     Chllstlanun. Jan rt A. TMtet & Et Al                               P.O. Cox 2397                   WolnUICr•ek CA              IM!0!;.03~1    113081'.)'lllll         5,032                   23                 3                  20               20       St00.260.ZD     $100.260.20
                                                                                                                                                                   01301 S•O Diy;rtC                0,107                   3G                  0                 JD            38          ~lllQ,18,3(,    Sl80,40B.38
     1811     120.20.003      TllollsSm•. lrn:.                                                  P.o.e.. 21                      Palo Alto   CA
                                                                                                                                 Palo Ano    CA                    94302           0002            47,700                  191                 22                100           100          ~IM7,1PB.70     $1M7.lll9.lO
     100      120.20.QIJ.t    ThoksOros. Inc.                                                    l'.0.9a•2t
                                                                                                                                                                          2Jl5 Homlllon
     IOI      12P.~fl.~       Alhouso-HarNtlon                                              2800  El Camino Reol Ste 100         Palo Allo         CA        1).1308-1705 201 !Jomlltan            37,0l)(l                t5t                 7                 l~I           U4           sm,013.•s $721,873.45
     191      120.20.000      Alhous.. l!Omlllan                                            2000  El e11111too neot Sia too      Pa'OAllo          CA        IJ.1300.1705 641 flamono               9,4!!0                 u                   0                  22           22           $110,?DB.22 Jl10,2BD.2.2
                                                                                            2381  S111to Anb SI.                 Palo Alto         CA              114303 5:15 Romon•               9.010                  38                  0                  00            38          $tOC),iCC-t36 $110.404.30
     193      120.20.087      Pe Lemcs!t Pm,,.J11i!!
     !DI      1211-20.000     Do Lomo• Proportl..                                           2301  santc An• SI.                  PoloAllo          CA              04303 520 Romomi                 G,205                  25                   0                 25            25          S1lS,32!U!i $125,325.25
     195      120-211-070     Ramon.530                                                           PO. Box2328                    Kntchum           to        83340.2328 530 Romono                  0,104                  33                   0                 \13              33       Sl!IS,12U3 $t05,42U3
              120.20.071      Ho1'.io, Jonnie c, TMtoo & El Al                               200 Ly•ll 91.                       LosAUos           CA        0402NGIO G3t!R~na                      4,010                  20                   2                  10              IO        $110,U4.10 $00.234.18
     1119
     107      120.20-012      Oukos. Daocn E. '"" Ano•lin M. Trust..                        1150 N.~lhSI                         Sao Jose          CJ\             95112 53Plla1110•D               4,m                    20                   z                 IQ            18           $00,234.IA 100.m.te
     toa      120-21Mf73      D•hl, OJomo 0. Tru•••• & elAI                                 1095 Vallar F•lll• or.               Sunn)'Yolo        CA        04061·2012 $40 Aomon:.                30,301             . 145                     0                us            14'          suo,aon.4o $7:?0.800,40
                                                                                             40IJ Bolllh Moll did• M Unll 2 II   SUllf1Y\'OtO      CA        040811-7050 20tHamlllcm               20,040               101                     2                Ill!          105          $520,300 Oli $520,306.011
     !Ill)    120.2$.074      Stht!r. Mcivor and Honnoh l!I Al
     200      120.i!S.075     SutllV.n, llonold I TMICO & El Al                             07Zl f earmantTr.                    Svnnyvolo         CA              o.toeo S.CSUmtn.an               4,010                20                     0                 no               20       SIOIJ.200.20 s100.2ouo


    20t     120.20.070        Clly of Polo Alto !Emor1of1.R"'"ono LotJ olln: Joo Saa:lo      250 H1mHton Av~nuo 4tti Floor Polo Alto               CA             01301                                 0                   0                  0                   0                0              ID.oo        SD.DO
            120.20.070        Mldl;al·Polrltk Inc.                                           632 emv.,..$1.                      PalOAUo           CA       04301"1007 530Emrr.on                   5,750                  23                  0                  23               23        S11MDll.23 $115.299.23
    202
                                                                                            1320 C<!u~ Club Dr.                  Lo1Alloo          C4       IM024·53tr.? 531f:ma"'°"                3,000                  12                  0                  12               12         SOO.ISB.t2 $60. 150.12
    201     120.20.oav        Sha111er. cr1·do et Al
                                                                                                                                                            O-t022.f210 &30f.imanon                 4,00<!                 10                   t                 15               15         176,lll!l.IS $75.1115.15
    21).1   120.20.oat        Boll, Vatori• D.                                             27W Moody Rd.                         1.osAll°'         CA
                                                                                             202 GaltuboroUQhCI                  Fo1'1:1m          CA       osa:io.1011 SlOEnmrson                  3.529                    IC                 2                 12               12         $00,150.12 SllO,IS0.12
    205     121'20.0112       lmlAosl•:m
                                                                                                                                                   Cl\      04303-3032 S44Em"""n                    6,315                  2.1                 0                  l!2              22        $110,~B0.22 $110.28&.22
      200   120.20.0113       lolJtlQ, Ver.i Tntlloo & Et Al                                21130 JtoHOt'.                       P•l•Allo
      101   f2!1-2fl.aa.I     Botlenoourl, Roba~ T. TIUSIOO 4 El Al                               P.O. tlo• 419                  PoloAllo          CA       !Mlll2·0410 SBGr:marson                 r,•S2                  30                  e                  ~2               22        s110,wn.:' Stt0.20D 22
     100    12fl.28-U'!5      Homlllon A1sac1a1 .. ·                                        10S4 lho A11m..io Sta 200            S.nJoso           CA       95120.2200 t0111.amlltan               15,0IM                  DO                   ii                llll             eo        noo,reo.BI) $300,700.60
                                                                                            1805 PMoloRd,                        Wood•ldo          CA       U.!092·20)8 57~1\ljJll                 23.Sf5                  04                  12                 62               02        SHl,OOll llt $411.D".6112
      209   1211-20.ona       Tsor M•111•tCI Ula E•tal•                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            sn.on         S0.00
                                                                                             250 tb1nl1ton Avcnuo 4th Fklot      Polo Alto         CA             11-1301                                 0                 0                   0                  D                0
.....J!!L-120.W•(\BI          Cit• of P•lo Alla "''"l•Hamltlon loll •ttil. Jon Sm:do




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           l/
                                                                                                                                                                                                  $Ito             S.1u:t1I!         f'11r1'.lflj_J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .     P:'lt\;I~         A.O. Par1<"1g       Pnri<lno         Prrllmln"'l'         Fl11:rl
AIJ5C.SS"10UI    Assas~r'.s        OV.nar's                                                                         Mnlltng Addrt!il
  Number         rtnr:~            Hnme                                                                             llumbcl SUDOi                           Clly            $1;1• Zip             Attdross         Fr.ic1:"r.Je      R"lu!rt<I               Ptovltt~          Pilrllld..11Qn      aen~fi1          A~tt.tment           A.ssnSSPUtnl
, _ !li3::!:asn                                                                                                        2!i0 Jbmltton Aven11C' .iu1 Fl:>a f P:r:l:iiAllO     CA            114301                               D                        I                 0                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Un: ts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0              SD.DO        $0.00
     211                           Cltr of Pnlo Alla IHlol>Alm• So!bl U>\J lllln: Joo Satdo
     212          120.2a.oae       VolYJ!Cf'Y'OOrt,Jill                                                                IOO!I Erlg~M>Oddr,                   PalaAHa         CA      ll430HB21 S<.2H~h                      0,315                       20                 0                20                 28        1130,339.20 Sl3D,33D.28
     ~f3          120.26-000       Mill!, Joon F. El Al                                                                 BB! l.omn Volll•A•                  Palo Mo         CA      0430J.41t6 l35H•mlllon                     0                        0                 0                    a               0              SO.OD         $0.00
     214          120.2fl.091      f!ns:ml, Stcvnn I. Tru-.tee & El Al                                                 887 LDm11 VurrJt> A'J                Palo Alla       CA      ll4JOJ..tll0 63\lAlrna                 8!250                       25                 0                11                 17         S&S.22t.17   5115.221.17
     215          120.20.092       r.f!l1m""· Cfl~(!S J Ill Trusl~U                                                    700 Emr.rron Av                      Pa!QAIJa        CA      0<301·241 o 5201.lro~                  s,m                         23                 0                2l                 23        1115.2&~.23 $115.290,23
     218          121).~093        V4rt~cr:cort, Jill TNsleo                                                          IOOS    Etj0"'1IO¢dr.                 PaloAllo        CA      0'3G"8:1 I $2&Almo                     l,$02                       31                 0                31                 31        5155,103.31 $15$,403.31
     217         i20.20c0H         Otllomo. vidor c Dll!J M~l!lat•I M.                                                 753    E SI Ciiinlna A"i             Sunrlyv111e     i:A           i><iseo 102Udv•..ity           U,105                         $1                 0                51                 57        $2115,NU7 s2es.m.s1
     21e
     219
                 ti?0..20·09!1
                 120.20,001
                                   CUy •I Palo Alie
                                   505 H311111tonAvo Pn1ts LP
                                                                                                                       250
                                                                                                                      3338
                                                                                                                              flomnton I\•••••
                                                                                                                              E31nr!SI. 8IOP217
                                                                                                                                                            PafDAllO
                                                                                                                                                            Tut111
                                                                                                                                                                            CA
                                                                                                                                                                            OK
                                                                                                                                                                                          ouo:i 450 eiyanl
                                                                                                                                                                                          74139 t80Urllvmlly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         19,218
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         30.750
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       73
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      147
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           44
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IH                 m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              u         $22D,572.4' s220.m.u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        mu12.48 $130,DU.46
     220         130.211-00S       lv0t10n, Nome J. o"' Miiian c. Tru11oe                                              8!0    SnndHIHCt.                    I.lento Part    CA      \J.102S.7109 220Unl>rnl'Y              7,3llO                      30                 0                lO                 30        $150.31\0.30 $150,3;Q 30

     221
     222
                  121).21).099
                  120.28-100
                                   c11y OI Polo A110 a~n: Joe Satcio
                                   25 t UnlvMllt A...cnuo Auodmv1
                                                                                                                       250 Hn:mll!Gn Av12ntlo 41h Ffo01 Pl\toAllo
                                                                                                                       259 Unlvo1nuy Av Silo. 200       PnloAUo
                                                                                                                                                                            CA
                                                                                                                                                                            CA
                                                                                                                                                                                         IM301
                                                                                                                                                                                         04301 ZS1 l/f11Vo111tr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         17,D35
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        •
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       71
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           71
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              !l0.00        SO.Oil
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        $35U22.71 $355,923.71
     223          120.:fl.101      PloU•I EqufllftllUll Corp                                                                  P,0. 90140<               Mti~nntd            MA      017~·0llM 130~)1fOn                  47,234                       18~                111               71                 !I      . $355,923.71 5355,023.71
     224          12C.:2o.102      fOI   Ur!IY~rs«r                                                                    555    c.1ttlarrno SI. Sle. 28SO San Fr;/\c:fsco     CA           0411M 101 Uolvetllly            41,320                       IDS                30               120                128        S031.B3t.27 $1131.BlD.27
     225          121).28-103      ~$0 UrWer:!IV AvtnUG A.sotfatcti                                                    :isv   Ufll'rmrtnv Av 510. 2Dtl  Polo Mo             CA           DllDI UDl!r"'1eisll)'           41.SOO                       10!                OB               100                1GQ        $$01,301.00 UOl,301,01
     220          IZ0-'20..104     Cltyof PaloAllo                                                                     250    Hnmlllon Av""'"'          P~laAllo            CA           04303 250Unlv......                   0                        0                 0                 a                  0              $0.00         SD.Oil
     227         12M0.105          G.UOMGl~t1Jr.                                                                      1711    Te<:hnology Pr Sullo l~O SanJottt             CA           05110 41)(1 EmUtscn               0,110                      32                 3%                    0               0              so.oo         $0.00
     228         120.20-100        Emetsan Assatf:ilC!?I                                                             20725    Volloy G~n Or. Stu 200 CUptl~lno              CA      05014..1703 .tit~ Emenon               MOO                        II                  a                    0               e         $40,104.00 $4U,I04.08
     229         120.21·002        Zachorlolr lne.                                                                    20!7    2lll1Av                   San Ftancl,;o       CA      04132-1535 110 Homnton                 7.404                      30                  e                2.2                22        1110,28D.2l! Ulo.21111.22
     230         12o.27°003        Znc:h12rlahtnc..                                                                   2911    21lh51.                   son Fnnellco        CA      0411iµ1~8 13ftHomlnon                  3.345                      13                  z                It                 ti         sss.m.11     sss.m.11

     231         120.27.oo.l       Sibbler. Jome' o. nn4 llnda J.                                                        158 Harnlllon Av                   PaloAllo        CA      04301-1018    l50florn1nan            1,875                         8                  I                1                  7         135,0!)1.07 135,091.07
     232         t2M7·005          Blhbh!!', Jam" O. ond Llnda J.                                                        15Q Hollllllon AY                  PAia ARo        CA      0430MOl8      15DHol!llllOn           3,750                        15                 2                13                 13         105,100.13 $05, 169. 13
                 121).2f·OOll      Liwumca s. Kuod1la'                                                                    so llortl1 Flml e~oot             SnnJOIO         Cl\          95113    185 H•mlllan           13.004                        52                 4                ~a                 49        $24D,82MO mo.024.46
     233
                 12D·2f·OOf        CDlo,Otga                                                                             tBO HMn~IOA                        PnloAllo        CA           (11304   100H;amHlon            ~0.11#7                      ioo                 5               195                195        101!,531,llO $9!1.53a.80
     23•
                 121).17·008       Thlllls Oros. Inc.                                                                        P.0 Da•31                      P1loAl1a        CA           O<l02 200,.,l!nlllon             16,150                       01                 0                OI                 61        130;1.70!.0I l30S.793.0I
     235
                 121).27·000       Gnllov Pnt~ortlos LtC                                                             1!!1151 School HOll>O Ad.              Band            OR      mo1.2321 2!U Hamilton                  0,450                       20                 0                ID                 2B        5120,338.:ZO Sl3D,31UB
     2!8
                 12"21·010         Fonul Ca~:i RMI llC                                                                        P.O. Soi BD177                Pi!iloAllo      CA           1!43DIJ :Z:-4SHamltlon            5,000                      20                  0                20                 20        1100.200.20 $100.260.20
     231
                                   CllV ol P;lloAllc (Civic CenlQl) ndn: Joo Soc:r,lo                                  210 Hamtlt(trl AVOOUI!' 4th r:roo, Polo Aho       CA               04303 2SDHomlllon              10,000                       200                142              139                138        SCOl,!119.39 $001,195.39
     238         IZMMlll
     230         12°'27·012        RO<lal, Darts J. TruSloO A El Al                                                   3398 Trum~n A.v.                    Moll!llnlnVl~H CA               Q.4040 Ol&Romono                 e.1os                      33                  0                '3                 31        $105.4%9.33 llr.5.429.33
                                                                                                                      158B ¢3•1111•1• Av                  PoloAllO       CA         llA30').1040 830Rnman:i                a.DOZ                      20                  2                ?4                 24        S120~J1.:?.24 5120,312.24
     240         120.27·013        Bnrnos Sheil• M.

                                  dJ& RnmonA Ass.~tfatirt.s                                                            355    SnniaRllohY                   P•lrlAno        CA      91301·3942 0301Wn•••                   ~.740                       ID                 2                11                 11         Sl!S.221,17         $85.221.17
     241         12t'27..014
     2•2         120.27·015       T.ahlr, Rovll and Onfinu                                                            3510 t.owoll>d<Av                     Oolmool         Cf,     ll4002·13Jm IM2R•mona                  3,!MO                      12                  4                    u               B         $40,UJ.l.08         S<0.104,00
                                  Palo Alto Alf Club, ft1u                                                             BOD 11nmonoS1                        PotoAllD        CA      1Mllllo254G se8Rnm0M                   1,S73                      30                  1                10                 20        1115.:171.20       '145.377.20
     243         12lf.3!·01U                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               $155,403.3 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                  n1Fora.st                                                                               31                  31        Sl!t!S,AOJ.'ll
     244
     Z45
                 120.37·017
                 120.27-018
                                  Hol:mon. e.H. TMlea S El Al
                                  C:m11n:1I Ch?:i:nGm Inc.
                                                                                                                       IOI Shbll Rd
                                                                                                                       203 Fom,tAv
                                                                                                                       870 NllWOD Rd,
                                                                                                                                                            Watt.MVllJO
                                                                                                                                                            Pn!o.Alro
                                                                                                                                                            Pllfo.Allo
                                                                                                                                                                            CA
                                                                                                                                                                            CA
                                                                                                                                                                            CA
                                                                                                                                                                                    0~070-006/i
                                                                                                                                                                                    ql3D1·2511
                                                                                                                                                                                    04303·211A1
                                                                                                                                                                                                  20H.,..I
                                                                                                                                                                                                  e51 Emirson
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8.415
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3.30ll
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2,480
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1            . 13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           tn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SG0.150.12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         $10,130.10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             soo.1e.12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             550,130.ID
     240         12t'2T-010       T~r:ng. At~cndcr Ji., ~ Mtuthtl t.. Trus:lca
                                                                                                                           P,O. Dow t20                                     CA      01302·0120    043 El!llllCOn           5,Sro                      2l                  0                22                 2.l       ltl0,200.:Z2       ltt0,28o.22
     241         12o.27'020       M01woll, Don31cf A. 111ld lbOrH:i 1.t Et Al                                                                               PaloAllu
                                                                                                                                                            PtllDAllO       CA      IM301·1610    03SEmoB<>n                   0                        I)                0                ·8                  0              $0.00                SO.OD
     240         m1on.021         Ml)lctior Corporalloo                                                                035 Etnan:onSI.
                                                                                                                                                                                    0430"1010     035Eml!l"..on            2,400                       ID                 2                    9               0              10.00          $40.l!M.DB
     2•D          120.~r-022      Molcl>or Corpor•llon                                                                 039 EmonsanSl                        PaloAllo        CA
                                                                                                                           P.0.D,.31                        P•laMll         CA            04302   82Sf.ma1wn               B.020                       27                 0                21                 21        $135,351.27 "35.351.tl'
     250         121).27·023      Tholl• Sros. Inc.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           s. f05,213.2t
     2.St
     2S2
     253
                 12!'27·02•
                 131).21·025
                 "0.27·026'
                                  ThaiitsS~s.lnc.
                                  l(ofllg-Uollur., RLrlh E!. ISi Al
                                  Pnla Mio Tha:ttro Carporollan
                                                                                                                            PP. B"'ll
                                                                                                                      1147 PnrnoAv
                                                                                                                       100 !1nemanSt.
                                                                                                                                                            P;rta Alla
                                                                                                                                                            SunnyvalfJ
                                                                                                                                                            Polo Alla
                                                                                                                                                                            CA
                                                                                                                                                                            CA
                                                                                                                                                                              CA
                                                                                                                                                            Mi:nr,,.a1tt VleN CA
                                                                                                                                                                                         04302 OtDEmorr.on
                                                                                                                                                                                    04001·2234 020 f,Jf1Dt$0R
                                                                                                                                                                                    0430!.2410 024 Em11t<0n
                                                                                                                                                                                    94041.2322 041Em•"411
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0,076
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          11.405
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           o.:iiro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5ll
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ~3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ~I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           It
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              II
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5&
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ~I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1105.273.21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         $"..S,1•3,11  $55,143.11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Utlll,754.~B $200.751.58
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1155:•0~.31 $155.403.31
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <
     2S4         120.27·027       Aldlngor. Luror A. lMler! & El Al                                                      74 o.itrnaPr.
                                                                                                                                                            Tthnchapl         CA    D~l·B589 0351lJvlr                     4,SCO                       20                 0                15                 15         S75,1D5.16 $75,105.15
     2S$         121).27·03-I     ll10ma1, Sh•rman L TMlte & El Al                                                   30ll01 LDl'CI V•Rer Rd.
                                                                                                                                                            Pola Alto         CA    04301·1200 021HJvlt                      740                        3                 I                    2               2         $10,020.02 $l0,Qa,C2
     2!\11       12<'-21·039      Plo1c-:0. srcvo rird ct11clyn L                                                      2DD C:O"llOrSI,
     257         IZ0.21·030       8(:rnslcln, Martin D.                                                                Oil High SI,                         Pola/Ilk>         CA    D430M020 01!HlaJI                      1.'l91                       0                 0                 0                  0                $0.00         so.co
                                                                                                                                                            San Fu1ndsm CA          Omi-1535 622~                             0                         0                 0                 0                  0                so.oo         $0,00
     2~B         120.27·0~7       Znduulnh Inc.                                                                       2917 24ilr 91,
                                                                                                                                                            Omfmncf.sco CA          114132-1539 6S4 ll!Vh                17.104                        00                37                32                 32        Slllll.410.32 $1/lll,410 32
     259         120-27.(\)0      Z•tho~•h Inc. (>oo "°lo 71                                                          2017 2•11151.
                                                                                                                                                            LHAhcre!i» CA           00071.21120 e<!Olllgh                  8,250                       20                 0                25                 25        $125,375.25 $125.:125.25
     2GO         IZ0.27·03V       U.S. TnJllComponyoleo.• 'ITEE                                                        51! S. F!oWOt SL Suiltt 27C<I

                                                                                                                                                                            CA      00071°2420 OB3Almo                   IO,&a2                        44                21                13                 23        5115.209.2~        $1115.2£19.23
     201         12u.-.z:r·P42.   u G, TruOI compony or ca .. nee: 11ee noie Bl                                        515 s. FIOW11t SI. Sill• 2700        Los Angel"
                                                                                                                                                                            CA      ll0071·2420 CJ.11/\lm•                    0                         0                  0                   0               0               so.DO       10.00
     202         120.27"!43        U.S. TNll Compo•y Of Co., 't'l6E                                                    515 s. r.IDl'IOr SI. Sulla 2700      Lit• Angolo•
                                                                                                                                                                                    l).!301·1625 UOFcre!lt                4,802                        10                  0               19                 19         505.241.19 $05,2'7.IO
     203         120-27·084        Sml4f, Samuel nniJ M;:ufano J, lmslaa                                               e&S fllp~SI.                         P11J0Allo       CA
                                                                                                                              w. Ro\\~and Av.               UIUnlan         co            801~0 IOOHamhran               72CMO                        260                129              150                150        •71!70GS,l!O &797 069.00
     204         121).27·007      IRo•blor:ull LLC Et Al                                                              8736
1.1-1-   'I.---"- -~.1.1-- __.. •.!.t-.1 - -   "'l"t.t.I 4 .. 1\."l.,..l'\"!l.'f 1111 -.uh1 ... ,41,..1i.1., llCH

Nola S: onslle por~lno p1ovldod en APll 120·27·04210 cradilod on lhl& AP~I




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ~
;;Jetfrt'IGl'lt AUHMll'I    O-Mier'1                                                    MnnlnQ AdcltuH                                                           Siio       Squ:uo        P>1.1l:lfY.l.,        Po<klnO        A.t>.Pait.roa   P~1l1llY,a        Prallmlniuy          t:lnal
   N11mber 1'i11c~I         N;tnt                                                       lluntb•• Slltol                    Clly         S!:ilc Zip               Add run    roat.ioo      Rt'Ql#1N              Provided       Paoll:fpatlon   Ot1not11          Alstu ...nl          Au"smoot
                Numbft                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Unlll
    205 . 120-0Ml<ll        hw!!stors ar F01osl Plaio                                       112   Unl111olt~ Av            Palo Alto    CA       IM301·18:JI 171fcresl           4,024                     10              0              10                10        $8GJOl.l8          $80.201.18
    260   120-e.1.012       hwHlors af Forest Plar=                                        tra    uri1,(l;~itr   tw        Pala Alto    CA           IM301 151Foresl             3,519                     u               0              14                14        $70.1111.14        570,182.14
    m 120.01.023
    200   120-02·001
                            lnves.ID1.1 of Fmi:sl Pia~
                            lda11, .ErlcR. and Janie It nus100
                                                                                            t'U IJnWrrt.lly Av
                                                                                           075 ammmst.
                                                                                                                           P.DlaAllo
                                                                                                                           PatoAKo
                                                                                                                                        CA
                                                                                                                                        CA
                                                                                                                                                       D.(l>nt OOSHfllh
                                                                                                                                                 04301·2520 oi5tlllmDn
                                                                                                                                                                                 O,H.C
                                                                                                                                                                                 1,500
                                                                                                                                                                                                           t•
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           •0             1$
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            %$
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     $1llli.32G.:IG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      $30.078.l)Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SIZ5.32!.2b
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         $30,078.0ll
    200   120-02"002        Polo P1t1p..,le1.~LC                                           37& rorostAv                    PaloAIJo     CA            94301 375Forosl            4,497                     18              0              18                1B        190,734.1.B        $0UIM.18




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 r., .
    270   12Q.0:.02t        Levell, OOMll A: et Al                                         '502 Wo,.rloySI.                Palo Alic    cA            0430'1 3osi'oifit          1.ilr2                     a              0               B                0         14M!M.O!J          UO,l!M,06
    211   120-02·022        Chaltlon, Randolph S. Tlusloo & £1 Al                          730 Se•l•M                      ~;iloAll<!   CA       94301-3-101 3ll5Foresl          1,6S9                      7              0               1                1         US,011.01          SJS,Olll OT
    272      121f.Gi1·012   Wood, Allt!ll D. Tltl•lee                                     3%13 Cowi>cr SL                  P•loAttn     CA       04100.300! i40H1Qh                •SO                      2              0               2                2         SI0.020.02         SIO,OH.OZ
    213      120.CS.013     VIO<Y.i, Alien D. and Mory L. TMltl!                          3213    e.-,,,.,51.              PoloAllo     CA       0431)$.:)00.l   421Alrn•          550                      2              D               2                2         $tM2!1.02          $10,020.02
__lli_.-~!                  Cltv or P•I• Allo n11n1•Atm1 Nolth G•~•• nttn: Joo Sactlo      2SO H:amlflon Avanuo 41h F.foar P:aioAllD    CA             114303                        0                      0              0               0                0       _J!)J!Q_~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    o, 1•s          45.00~.133         4s,ll4s.ooo




                                                                                                                                                                                                       di, I :2 tf




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '7
     -~~l~~!t~
https://paloaltoonline.com/news/print/2018/05/31/nobu-expansion-faces-appeal-in-palo-alto


Uploaded: Thu, May 31, 2018, 9:22 am

Nobu expansion faces appeal in Palo Alto
Downtown property owner says city is giving the applicant 'special treatment'

by Gennady Sheyner

As a downtown developer, Elizabeth Wong fully understands the power of the appeal in slowing down a project.

In February 2017, her proposed mixed-use development at 429 University Ave. narrowly won the City Council's approval after
more than three years of reviews and a formal appeal by neighbors who deemed her project at the former site of Shady Lane
too massive and architecturally incompatible with the area.

Now, Wong finds herself on the other side of the debate. On Monday night, the City Council will consider an appeal of another
downtown project: the proposed expansion of the Nobu restaurant, which is located at the Epiphany Hotel at 180 Hamilton
Ave. The appellant is Yo LLC, which is managed by Wong.

In appealing the proposal to open a new Nobu location next door to the Epiphany, at 620 Emerson St., Yo LLC, is seeking to
reverse the approval that project received from the city's planning staff on April 19. Palo Alto's Architectural Review Board
had also voted on April 5 to approve the proposal, which calls for a new, 4,063-square-foot two-story building to replace the
existing structure formerly occupied by Stanford Florist.

For Yo LLC, the biggest issue is parking -- specifically, the city's decision to allow the property owner to pay "in-lieu parking
fees" instead of providing actual parking on the site. The project would remove three existing on-site parking spots.

Planning staff had determined the removal of parking spots is reasonable. The location and size of the property, combined
with Americans with Disabilities Act requirements, local standards for refuse collection make it "infeasible to provide additional
parking onsite in an efficient or convenient parking layout," according to a report from the Department of Planning and
Community Environment.

Wong disagreed with this determination and argued that the city's decision on parking sets a dangerous precedent. In an
interview with the weekly, she noted that if every restaurant in downtown's parking assessment district were given the same
right to remove parking spots, the area would lose more than 2,000 parking spots. This, she said, represents "a tremendous
loss to the city."

"Whatever you grant this applicant, you have to grant to other applicants," Wong said.

Wong also argued that by approving the proposal, the city is essentially giving the restaurant special treatment. Any project
building within Palo Alto, she wrote to the architecture board in February, "should comply to the requirements of the City's
existing land use policies."

"Yo LLC objects to special treatment the Oty has granted Nobu restaurant because it is a very popular and well-regarded
restaurant and to Larry Ellison, the owner, because of his immense status in the business community."

The tiff over parking spots isn't the first clash between Yo LLC and the project applicant, who is listed in the project plans as
PA Hotel Holding LLC. Last year, Yo LLC filed a lawsuit against the property owner alleging breach of contract, fraudulent
concealment and negligent misrepresentation.

According to the suit, Yo LLC made a bid in 2013 to buy the property from the owner, Krucker Trust (represented by Ruth
Krucker), for $3.25 million. The two parties entered into a purchase agreement and the sale was set to close escrow in 2014.
That, however, did not happen because of a separate legal dispute between Krucker and her husband, Adolf Konigsreiter,
over ownership rights. In July 2016, the Krucker Trust was deemed the "sole and rightful" owner of the property, according to
Yo LLC's court filing.

 Yo LLC maintains that the Emerson Purchase Agreement remained in effect, despite these disputes. However, in January
 2017, Ruth Krucker, as trustee of the Krucker Trust, sold the property to PA Hotel Holding for $4. 25 million.

 The complaint from Yo LLC argues that by selling to PA Hotel Holding, Krucker and Trucker Trust "have breached the
 covenant of good faith and fair dealing by failing to honor the Emerson Purchase Agreement and by breaching their
 contractual obligations."
Yo LLC's formal appeal focuses on the issues of parking, congestion and the provision of a code-compliant restroom; Wong's
February letter to the board alludes to the ongoing litigation as another reason the application should not be approved.

"Yo LLC has a contract to purchase the property which predates Applicant's ownership of this property," Wong wrote.
"Approval of this application and the proposed demolition and development work proposed to follow may have to be reversed
depending upon the outcome of the pending litigation."

The council is scheduled to consider Yo LLC's appeal at its meeting this Monday. Planning staff is recommending that the
council reaffirm the project's approval and reject the appeal. Because the appeal is listed on the council's "consent calendar,"
it would take three council members to remove it from the calendar and give Wong a full public hearing.



Follow the Palo Alto Weekly/Palo Alto Online on Twitter @PaloAltoWeekly and Facebook for breaking news, local events,
photos, videos and more.
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 1:48 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Elizabeth Wong <elizabethwong2009@gmail.com>
Sent:                         Monday, August 20, 2018 12:46 PM
To:                           Council, City
Cc:                           Keene, James; Shikada, Ed
Subject:                      Re: KPIX5



To clarify, KPIX5 contacted me (not the other way around) and was interested in the APPEAL of the Nobu
Expansion.

Elizabeth

On Mon, Aug 20, 2018 at 12:36 PM, Elizabeth Wong <elizabethwong2009@gmail.com> wrote:
 For your information KPIX5 may be at the council hearing tonight reporting on the Nobu Expansion.

 Elizabeth




                                                     1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 4:01 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Suzanne Keehn <dskeehn@pacbell.net>
Sent:                         Monday, August 20, 2018 3:02 PM
To:                           Council, City
Subject:                      620 Emerson



Greetings City Council Members,

So I have been apprised of the complaint that Elizabeth Wong has with the under parked
design for 620 Emerson St. to expand the Nobu Restaurant.
I don't think we should approve any more under parked structures, period. However, it
seems there is some lack of integrity here, as Ms. Wong's building
is under parked as well.

Since she wants a PASZ opinion, I can only speak for myself, but we are FOR all
buildings being fully parked.

Suzanne Keehn
PASZ Steering Committee
4076 Orme St.
94306




                                                     1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 4:01 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Greg Stutheit <gstutheit@montalbaarchitects.com>
Sent:                            Monday, August 20, 2018 3:17 PM
To:                              Kniss, Liz (internal); Fine, Adrian; Wolbach, Cory; Filseth, Eric (Internal); Scharff, Gregory
                                 (internal); Tanaka, Greg; Holman, Karen; Kou, Lydia; DuBois, Tom
Cc:                              Chris Wade; Council, City; David D. Montalba; Ivo Keller; Gutierrez, Samuel
Subject:                         Re: 620 Emerson/ARB Application No. 17PLN00331
Attachments:                     CRW Letter to Palo Alto City Council re Yo LLC Appeal (08-08-18)
                                 (00838307xA4507).pdf



Hi All,

It has come to my attention that the referenced letter was inadvertently omitted from the previous email. It is
attached again here for your reference.

My sincerest apologies.

Best,
Greg

On Wed, Aug 15, 2018 at 7:37 PM Greg Stutheit <gstutheit@montalbaarchitects.com> wrote:

 Dear Councilmembers and Madam Mayor,

 Montalba Architects represents the Applicant for the new Nobu Restaurant project located at 620 Emerson
 Street. The project approval by the ARB was appealed and is on the upcoming August 20th City Council
 Agenda.

 The project team would be happy to offer a site visit prior to the hearing for any Council members that may be
 interested. We are also available to answer any questions you might have with regard to the design and
 approval process for the project, either by phone or email.

 Finally, I am attaching a letter written by the project’s attorneys addressing the details of the appeal.

 Thank you in advance for your attention to this matter and we look forward to presenting the project to you
 next week.

 Sincerely,

 Greg




 --
                                                             1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 4:01 PM
Greg Stutheit, Architect

Associate Principal



gstutheit@montalbaarchitects.com




MONTALBA ARCHITECTS, INC.

Los Angeles Office

2525 Michigan Avenue, Bldg T4

Santa Monica CA 90404 USA

T (310) 828-1100 (ext 107)



www.montalbaarchitects.com

Instagram | Twitter | LinkedIn




                                                     2
                                                                      575 MARKET STREET, SUITE 2700
                                                                            SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94105
                                                                             TELEPHONE: 415.814.6400
                                                                              FACSIMILE: 415.814.6401
                                                                                business@ssllawfirm.com

                                                                                      CHRISTINE R. WADE
                                                                                   DIRECT TEL: 415.243.2088
                                                                                        chris@ssllawfirm.com




                                          August 8, 2018



VIA FEDEX AND EMAIL

City Council and Mayor of the City of Palo Alto
City Hall
250 Hamilton Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94301
city.council@cityofpaloalto.org

         RE:       August 20, 2018 City Council Meeting Regarding Architectural Review
                   Application No. 17PLN00331 -- Yo, LLC Appeal from Decision of Director of
                   Planning & Community Development Approving Project at 620 Emerson Street


Dear Councilmembers and Madam Mayor:

        We represent PA Hotel Holdings, LLC (“Applicant”), the owner of the property located
at 620 Emerson Street in Palo Alto (the “Property”) and recipient of the project approval that is
at issue in the above-referenced appeal. The Property contains a currently vacant, 4,000 square
foot commercial building, formerly the site of the Stanford Florist flower shop. Applicant
proposes to replace the building with a 4,063 square foot commercial space to allow for
expansion of the existing Nobu Restaurant located within the Nobu Hotel—Epiphany Palo Alto
next door (the “Project”).

       After carefully studying the Project over the course of two hearings, the Architectural
Review Board (“ARB”) voted unanimously, 5 to 0, to approve the Project as currently designed
and conditioned.

       This Appeal was filed by Yo, LLC. In addition to its role as appellant, Yo, LLC is
involved in active litigation against Applicant related to Yo, LLC’s failed attempt to purchase the
Property from its previous owner. Yo, LLC’s owner/representative is Elizabeth Wong, a local
property owner and developer. The Notice of Appeal alleges that parking, traffic, loading, and
restroom issues justify reversing the ARB’s decision. However, as discussed below, all of these
arguments miss the mark. Each of these issues is addressed by the staff report and the record,
which provide ample support to sustain the ARB’s unanimous approval of the Project.



{3233-00002/00838264;}
          City Council and Mayor of the City of Palo Alto
          August 8, 2018
          Page 2 of 9




                                                 In-Lieu Parking Fees

        The Project’s reliance on in-lieu parking fees to satisfy the City’s parking requirements is
consistent with both the spirit and the letter of the Municipal Code provisions governing in-lieu
fees, and with the City’s planning documents for the Downtown area.

        The City has made a conscious choice to design its Downtown Commercial District as a
pedestrian and bicycle-friendly zone, featuring a variety of small shops and restaurants housed in
separate, architecturally-distinct structures. That preference is reflected in a number of General
Plan policies that encourage the use of shared parking and reduction of parking requirements for
restaurants.1 The City’s Downtown Urban Design Guidelines likewise emphasize the “existing
building pattern of storefronts or structural bays,” which “create the human scale of Downtown”;
and Municipal Code § 18.18.110 creates design criteria that “promote pedestrian walkability” by
directing vehicle access away from store-fronts and reserving public street frontages for
pedestrian access. These policies demonstrate the City’s commitment to funneling parking
demand into the public garages disbursed throughout the area, rather than attempting to
accommodate all parking demand generated by each redevelopment project on-site.

        Consistent with these policies, Municipal Code § 18.18.090(d) allows certain projects to
satisfy the City’s parking requirements through payment of in-lieu fees.2 These provisions
apply, among other things, where the project occupies less than 10,000 square feet in site area
and it is not physically feasible to provide the required on-site parking due to an unusual lot
configuration; or where the site is located in an area where city policy precludes curb cuts or
otherwise prevents use of the site for on-site parking.

        The Project satisfies the requirements for eligibility to participate in the in-lieu parking
program. First, the site area is 4,063 square feet, well below the 10,000 square foot threshold in
subsection (d)(2), and Applicant has conclusively demonstrated that it would not be physically
feasible to provide the required parking spaces on-site. Specifically, Applicant’s representatives
commissioned an independent study of the feasibility of integrating on-site parking into the
Project by expert traffic and parking consultants Nelson/Nygaard Consulting Associates, Inc.
The study evaluated 13 separate parking layout scenarios with respect to turning feasibility,
physical site constraints, adjacent private property constraints, sight distance adequacy, and
bicycle/pedestrian safety.

        Nelson/Nygaard determined that all 13 scenarios were infeasible for a variety of reasons,
including inadequate visibility of pedestrians in the alley, insufficient turning radii, and other
issues related to the Property’s unusual configuration, with its narrow rear frontage on a one-way
alley that contains several other nearby obstructions. The study concluded that, “there was no
feasible way to provide parking within or on the project site that could meet parking space size,
ingress and egress movements, or vehicle/bicycle/pedestrian safety standards.” The Project
therefore satisfies the in-lieu fee eligibility requirements of Section 18.18.090(d)(2).

1
    Relevant General Plan policies are listed in Appendix A to this letter for the Council’s reference.
2
    The complete text of Section 18.18.090(d) is set forth in Appendix B.


{3233-00002/00838264;}
        City Council and Mayor of the City of Palo Alto
        August 8, 2018
        Page 3 of 9




         Second, the site is located in an area where city policy strongly disfavors curb cuts,
because they disrupt pedestrian circulation. As ARB member Wynne Furth observed during the
first of the two ARB hearings, “I don’t think there’s anybody who would support … a curb cut
on Emerson. That would go against everything we’re trying to accomplish here.” This
restriction significantly constrains the Property’s ability to accommodate on-site parking, since it
prevents any arrangement by which cars would enter and exit a garage from the Emerson Street
side, thereby requiring all cars to enter and exit from the public alley in the rear of the Property.
As the Nelson/Nygaard study concluded, the alley cannot serve as a safe entrance and exit for
parking on the Property for all of the reasons discussed above. The Project therefore satisfies the
eligibility requirements of subsection (d)(4), as well.

        The Notice of Appeal argues that the City should reject the Project because the Project
will remove three existing on-site parking spaces. While it is true that there are currently three
parking spaces on the Property, the spaces are too small for current City parking requirements,
and there is no disabled access-compliant space. In fact, the garage is only large enough to
accommodate two legal parking spaces under existing City standards. Moreover, in practice
these spaces have been used as a loading zone and for storage of trash generated on the Property
– not for parking. The ARB took all of these facts into account in reaching its decision
approving the Project, and as ARB member Robert Gooyer stated, the Applicant provided “the
most thorough explanation as to why we need to … get rid of those three parking spaces I think I
have ever heard.”

        The Notice of Appeal next argues that the Project’s payment of in-lieu parking fees “is
sugar-coating the fact that there is no provision for off site parking within walking distance.”
That is simply untrue. There are five public parking lots within a two-block radius of the
Property:

              •    High/Alma North Garage (Q), 550 High Street
              •    High/Hamilton Lot (P), 549 High Street
              •    Emerson/Ramona Lot (N), 561 Emerson Street
              •    Civic Center Garage (CC), 250 Hamilton Street
              •    Ramona/University Garage (B), 533a Ramon Street

We also understand that the City recently expanded its garage on Lytton Avenue, and is working
on an expansion of another garage on Hamilton Avenue. Accordingly, there is a large amount of
existing public parking located in the Project’s immediate vicinity, and the supply of public
parking spaces continues to grow.

        Further, restaurant patrons will have access to valet parking at the entrance to the
Epiphany Hotel, directly next door to the Project. As it does now, the valet service will continue
to utilize licensed spaces in private garages or lots outside of the immediate vicinity of the
Project, rather than taking up spaces in the closest public garages.




{3233-00002/00838264;}
        City Council and Mayor of the City of Palo Alto
        August 8, 2018
        Page 4 of 9




        It is possible that in referring to the lack of “provision for off site parking within walking
distance,” Yo, LLC is arguing that the City must assign individual parking spaces in specific
public garages to projects with in-lieu parking fee components, so that there are designated spots
available for the project’s use. However, nothing in the text of the Municipal Code supports
such a requirement, and it is our understanding that the City has never taken that approach to in-
lieu parking. Yo, LLC has not provided an example of a project for which in lieu spaces were
specifically designated, we were unable to locate such an example in our search of City records,
and Planning Department staff knows of none.

        To the contrary, the City recently approved a project at 429 University Avenue, which we
understand was sponsored by Yo, LLC’s principal, Ms. Wong. That project requires 87 parking
spaces, 34 of which will be accommodated on-site. The project relies on past payments of in-
lieu fees to provide 37 of the remaining spaces. Consistent with the Project at issue here, the
approval documents do not mention any assignment of specific parking spaces.

        Likewise, the City recently approved a 7,158 square foot expansion of a senior citizen
center at 450 Bryant Street, which is zoned the same as the Property and located just 3 blocks
away. That project generated a need for 29 additional parking spaces, which it will satisfy
entirely through payment of in-lieu fees and a transportation demand management plan. Again,
the approval documents do not mention any assignment of specific parking spaces.

        Nor would such an approach make sense. A big part of the reason for accommodating
parking demand in large, public garages is to allow flexibility in the use of parking spaces, so
that spaces not being used for one business at any given moment are available to patrons of the
other businesses in the area. Assigning specific spaces to individual businesses would defeat that
purpose.

        Yo, LLC next argues that the Project proposal “never addressed other options such as
mechanical lifts and underground parking….” That is incorrect. The 13 scenarios studied in the
Nelson/Nygaard report specifically included underground parking and mechanical lift options.
The expert consultant found these options to be infeasible for a variety of reasons, including the
difficulties created by forcing cars to back out of an underground garage or lift into a one-way
alley already occupied with other parking spaces and physical obstructions.

        Thus, while the Applicant has submitted substantial evidence showing that the Project is
eligible for payment of in-lieu parking fees, Yo, LLC has failed to submit any evidence or
credible argument to the contrary.

                                               Traffic & Congestion

        The next issue raised in the Appeal concerns the Project’s purported traffic impacts.
Referring to the presence of other restaurants on the 600 block of Emerson Street, Yo, LLC
argues that “Location of another restaurant may bring traffic and circulation on this block to a
standstill, especially during the peak evening hours.” The Notice of Appeal again offers no
evidence to support its claim.


{3233-00002/00838264;}
        City Council and Mayor of the City of Palo Alto
        August 8, 2018
        Page 5 of 9




         We understand that the City typically requires a locally focused traffic analysis for
projects generating more than 50 trips per peak hour; and only requires a complete analysis to be
performed for projects generating more than 100 new weekday peak hour trips.3 The Planning &
Transportation Commission staff has concluded that projects generating less than 50 new peak
hour trips, “would generate an insignificant amount of traffic relative to the local street network
(i.e. they would not have the potential to result in direct, indirect, or ‘considerable’ contributions
to cumulative impacts).”

       Here, the Project would replace an existing 4,000 square foot commercial use with a new
4,063 square foot commercial use. The Planning Department staff concluded that in light of the
type of use, square footage, and location, the Project’s impact on traffic and circulation will be
negligible. Yo, LLC has offered no facts or evidence to rebut that conclusion. Accordingly, the
record does not support overturning the ARB’s decision on this basis.

                                              Loading Requirements

         Yo, LLC next argues that the Project’s elimination of the three on-site parking spaces
“creates loading problems for this site” because the three spaces “also act as loading space.”
Notably, this argument conflicts with Yo, LLC’s previous argument regarding parking, since
spaces that are consistently used for parking could not be used for loading. However, in addition
to this logical inconsistency, the Council should reject this argument for several other reasons.

        First, the Municipal Code unambiguously provides that the Project does not need to have
a loading zone. Table 3 in Municipal Code § 18.52.040 sets forth the Minimum Off-Street
Loading Requirements for various uses. The requirement for “Eating and Drinking Services”
with 0 to 4,999 square feet of space, such as the Project, is zero.

        Second, the lack of a separate loading zone is consistent with the City’s existing policy of
encouraging the use of alleys behind commercial properties as loading zones. Indeed, Ms. Wong
benefited from the same policy when the City approved her 429 University Avenue project,
despite the fact that the project included a loading zone that was too small to satisfy the City’s
requirements. As noted in the Staff Report for the March 20, 2017 City Council meeting
regarding the 429 University Avenue project,

                   There is a loading zone at Kipling Street and the alley provides
                   sufficient loading space for the project and service alleys
                   throughout downtown have historically been used for the purpose
                   of shared loading and access. Using the alley is consistent with
                   prior projects reviewed by the City and with previous iterations of
                   the project design, and meets the intent of the City’s Code
                   requirement.


3
 This understanding, and the quotation in the next sentence, come from a City Planning & Transportation
Commission Staff Report dated December 11, 2013, titled “Traffic Impact Analysis Guidelines and Traffic Model
Update.”


{3233-00002/00838264;}
        City Council and Mayor of the City of Palo Alto
        August 8, 2018
        Page 6 of 9




There is no reason why the same logic should not apply to this Project, which will generate
considerably less demand for loading and unloading than Ms. Wong’s four-story, mixed-use
project at 429 University.

        Third, Yo, LLC’s argument ignores the fact that the Project has access to the existing
loading zone for the adjacent hotel. The hotel’s loading and trash area is located off of Hamilton
Avenue, and includes a 145 square foot indoor trash area, a 231 square foot indoor loading and
elevator access area, and a 290 square foot outdoor loading space located outside of the public
right of way. All of these areas are approximately 155 feet from the proposed connection
between the hotel and the Project’s kitchen. While the Project has access to sufficient space for
loading even without these facilities, and the City’s Municipal Code unequivocally does not
require further loading space, the Project’s access to such extensive facilities for the foreseeable
future is also worth noting in assessing this issue.

        The Notice of Appeal also argues that “Larger delivery trucks and vehicles that service
the grease traps for example cannot make the two sharp turns in the alley.” Yo, LLC again offers
no evidence or credible argument to support its assertion. According to the staff reports for the
Project and Mr. Gutierrez’s testimony to the ARB, Planning Department staff specifically
measured the width of the alley and concluded that the alley is wide enough to be used for
service and delivery vehicles. Although parking on the Property is infeasible because the alley is
a one-way street and has existing obstructions in the specific area where cars would have to back
out from any parking spaces on the Property, those issues would not apply to service vehicles
proceeding through the alley in the permitted direction.

        Further, there are already two other restaurants (Tacolicious and Dan Gordon’s) on the
same side of the same block of Emerson Street, in front of the same alley. There is no evidence
that either of these restaurants are having any problems with servicing of their grease traps. Yo,
LLC’s purported concerns regarding the lack of a loading zone are therefore entirely unfounded.

                                                Access to Restrooms

        Finally, the Notice of Appeal argues that the Project’s provisions for access to restrooms
are insufficient. Because the Project will include two physical connections between the new
restaurant space and the existing hotel next door (one for staff, the other for customers), the
Project provides for the restaurant’s restroom needs to be satisfied through the existing restrooms
in the hotel lobby. The end result will be similar to many existing restaurants in the City, where
customers make a short walk from the dining area to restrooms located just outside the
restaurant.4

        This arrangement fully complies with all legal requirements. The law does not require
that restrooms be placed on the same parcel of real estate as the facilities they serve. Instead, the
Plumbing Code states that restrooms must be provided within a maximum travel distance. In

4
 For example, several restaurants at Stanford Shopping Center utilize the center’s common restrooms, rather than
providing separate facilities.


{3233-00002/00838264;}
        City Council and Mayor of the City of Palo Alto
        August 8, 2018
        Page 7 of 9




non-mall facilities, that distance is 500 feet. The Retail Food Code (part of the Health and Safety
Code) contains various other requirements for travel distances in the 200 to 300 foot range. The
maximum travel distance for the Project will be 150 feet, comfortably complying with all of
these requirements.

        Further, in case the restaurant access to the hotel is ever severed, the Conditions of
Approval require the Property to construct its own, Code-compliant restrooms; and the Project
plans require Applicant to install plumbing on the Property to allow restrooms to be quickly
installed, should that ever prove to be necessary.

        Yo, LLC argues that these Conditions of Approval are insufficient because, “There is no
provision for monitoring or enforcement of this provision once the building permit is approved.”
However, putting aside the fact that whoever owns the restaurant space at the time of severance
would have a strong incentive to provide restrooms for staff and customers, severing the
restaurant’s access to the hotel would also require physical changes that would necessitate
issuance of new permits. Those permits could only be issued after a plan check, during which
the City would have to determine whether the separate structures resulting from the severance
comply with all applicable codes. Accordingly, the requirement that the Property’s owner install
separate restrooms upon severance of the structures is fully enforceable, both practically
speaking and as a matter of law.

                                                      Conclusion

        The Project complies with all City requirements, and none of the objections raised in the
Appeal withstands close scrutiny. The undersigned therefore respectfully requests that the City
Council affirm the ARB’s carefully considered, unanimous approval of the Project.

                                                          Sincerely,
                                                          SSL LAW FIRM LLP


                                                          Christine R. Wade

cc:      Associate Planner Samuel Gutierrez (via email)
         Greg Stutheit, Architect and Associate Principal, Montalba Architects, Inc. (via email)




{3233-00002/00838264;}
        City Council and Mayor of the City of Palo Alto
        August 8, 2018
        Page 8 of 9




                                              APPENDIX A
                                  General Plan Policies Relevant to Project


The following General Plan policies express the City’s conscious desire to develop the
Downtown Commercial District in a pedestrian and bicycle-friendly manner, rather than forcing
every project to accommodate demand for parking on-site:

              •    Policy T-5.1: “All new development projects should manage parking demand
                   generated by the project, without the use of onstreet parking, consistent with the
                   established parking regulations. As demonstrated parking demand decreases over
                   time, parking requirements for new construction should decrease.”

              •    Policy T5.1.2: “Consider reducing parking requirements for retail and restaurant
                   uses as a way to encourage new businesses and the use of alternative modes.”

              •    Policy T5.2.2: “Study and implement pricing strategies for public parking in
                   commercial districts, taking into consideration both employee parking demand
                   and the needs of retailers and customers. Use pricing to encourage short term
                   parking on street, long term parking in parking garages and the use of alternative
                   modes of transportation.”

              •    Policy T5.3: “Work with merchants when designating dedicated employee (long
                   term) parking areas in public parking lots and garages.”

              •    Policy T5.4: “Encourage shared parking where complementary demand timing is
                   demonstrated in order to optimize parking spaces in commercial centers and
                   employment districts.”

              •    Policy T5.6: “Strongly encourage the use of below-grade or structured parking,
                   and explore mechanized parking instead of surface parking for new developments
                   of all types while minimizing negative impacts including on groundwater and
                   landscaping where feasible.”




{3233-00002/00838264;}
        City Council and Mayor of the City of Palo Alto
        August 8, 2018
        Page 9 of 9




                                                APPENDIX B
                                         Municipal Code § 18.18.090(d)


The requirements for the City’s in-lieu parking program are set forth in Municipal Code §
18.18.090(d), which provides:

(d) In-lieu Parking Provisions

  In connection with any expansion of the supply of public parking spaces within the CD
commercial downtown district, the city shall allocate a number of spaces for use as "in-lieu
parking" spaces to allow development to occur on sites which would otherwise be precluded
from development due to parking constraints imposed by monetary contribution to the city to
defray the cost of providing such parking. Contributions for each required parking space shall
equal the incremental cost of providing a net new parking space in an assessment district project
plus cost for the administration of the program, all as determined pursuant to Chapter 16.57 of
Title 16 of this code, by the director of planning and community environment, whose decision
shall be final. Only sites satisfying one or more of the following criteria, as determined by the
director of planning and community environment, shall be eligible to participate in the in-lieu
parking program:

    (1) Construction of on-site parking would necessitate destruction or substantial demolition
of a designated historic structure;

   (2) The site area is less than 10,000 square feet, but of such an unusual configuration that it
would not be physically feasible to provide the required on-site parking;

   (3) The site is greater than 10,000 square feet, but of such an unusual configuration that it
would not be physically feasible to provide the required on-site parking;

    (4) The site is located in an area where city policy precludes curb cuts or otherwise prevents
use of the site for on-site parking; or

   (5) The site has other physical constraints, such as a high groundwater table, which preclude
provision of on-site parking without extraordinary expense.




{3233-00002/00838264;}
                                                                                COUNCIL MEETING
                                                                                                               8
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 4:33 PM
                                                                                         08/20/2018
                                                                                 ✔
                                                                                     Received Before Meeting
Carnahan, David

From:                            herb <herb_borock@hotmail.com>
Sent:                            Monday, August 20, 2018 4:32 PM
To:                              Council, City; Clerk, City
Subject:                         Re: August 20, 2018, Council Meeting, Item #8: Stanford Fire Protection Agreement and
                                 Settlement Agreement


Oops!

When I     clicked on the Attachment link to the 2006 staff report at the
bottom     of my copy of the letter I just sent you, it didn't work.
If you     have the same problem, simply go to the June 26, 2006, City Council
agenda     online, where the link to the Attachment for Agenda Item 7 does
work.

Herb Borock




From: herb <herb_borock@hotmail.com>
Sent: Monday, August 20, 2018 11:22 PM
To: city.council@cityofpaloalto.org; city.clerk@cityofpaloalto.org
Subject: August 20, 2018, Council Meeting, Item #8: Stanford Fire Protection Agreement and Settlement Agreement

Herb Borock
P. O. Box 632
Palo Alto, CA 94302

August 20, 2018

Palo Alto City Council
250 Hamilton Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94301


AUGUST 20, 2018, CITY COUNCIL MEETING, AGENDA ITEM #8
STANFORD FIRE PROTECTION AGREEMENT AND SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT


Dear City Council:

I urge you to continue this item to a future meeting to provide adequate
time for the City Council, the public, and the press to review this
lengthy and complex agenda item, because the staff report and attachment
for the item was not available eleven days before the meeting, which is
the standard for distribution of staff-prepared agenda item material.
                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 4:33 PM

It is a curious coincidence that the total of all the payments by the City
to Stanford are more than the first year's fees payable by Stanford under
the New Service Agreement. [$5,500,000 + $1,010,000 > $6,273,111]

Station Direct Costs are the principal metric used to determine the Grand
Total for the costs to be allocated by the Agreement.

The Agreement conflates the number of personnel in Stations with the
actual use of those personnel on Calls for Service.

The deployment of all Fire Department personnel on Calls for Service
should be a principal metric in determining Stanford's share of Station
Direct Costs but that data, which is readily available, is not shown.

Did City staff and Stanford staff examine the historical use of all
Station personnel on all Calls for Service to agree on Stanford's share
of Direct Station Cost and then work backwards to derive the formula for
the 19% cost allocation?

Or did one side of the negotiation use the historical record to obtain the
actual personnel deployment data on Calls for Service and then suggest
the personnel division used in the Agreement to calculate Stanford's share
of Direct Station Cost?

Remember, for example, that all medical calls on the Stanford campus
responded to by the Palo Alto Fire Department medic vans are responded to
by medic vans from Stations in the City of Palo Alto, not from Station No.
6.

Although there is language in the Agreement at Section 2.1(c) regarding
changes on the Stanford Campus that may impact resources allocated to
Stanford, there is no language that addresses the effect of Stanford
moving tax-exempt Academic Facilities to land in the City of Palo Alto,
such as the Stanford Research Park, or building tax-exempt housing on land
in the City of Palo Alto, such as the Stanford Shopping Center or the
Stanford Research Park.

When Stanford's tax-exempt facilities are on the Stanford Campus, Stanford
has the responsibility for paying for fire protection and medical
services, but when those same tax-exempt facilities are within the City of
Palo Alto, the City is responsible for paying for those services with
General Fund revenues, but those Stanford tax-exempt facilities in the
City would not be contributing their fair share to the General Fund.

For those interested in the text of the prior Agreement, please refer to:

Amendment Number Two to Stanford Fire Contract, June 26, 2006, CMR:
277:06:

                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 4:33 PM
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/cityagenda/publish/cmrs/documents/CMR277-
06.pdf

Attachment:
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/cityagenda/publish/cityclerkreports/documen
ts/060622no7stanfordfirecontract.pdf

Thank you for your consideration of these comments.

Sincerely,

Herb Borock




                                                     3
                                                                                  COUNCIL MEETING
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 4:20 PM
                                                                                          08/20/2018            11
                                                                                  ✔
                                                                                      Received Before Meeting
Carnahan, David

From:                           Adina Levin <adina.levin@friendsofcaltrain.com>
Sent:                           Monday, August 20, 2018 4:13 PM
To:                             Minor, Beth; Council, City
Subject:                        Comments on Stanford GUP
Attachments:                    FoC Stanford GUP letter (1).pdf



Honorable Council Members,

This note is in regard to the discussion about the Stanford General Use Permit.

Since the 2000 General Use Permit went into effect, Stanford has been a regional leader in practices
to reduce solo driving and transportation impact. We hope that you and Stanford’s planning team
consider these comments to strengthen Stanford’s role in helping to solve these important
challenges.

I am attaching Friends of Caltrain's earlier letter with regard to the General Use Permit. Two items in
particular to continue to encourage from the earlier letter:

* Contribution to Caltrain capacity improvements. The first phase of Caltrain electrification is currently
in progress. Building on this project, scheduled for completion in 2022, Caltrain has requested and
received some state funding to purchase additional cars for longer trains. With its planned growth,
Stanford is expected to be one of the largest users of the additional capacity from Caltrain
electrification phase 2. Therefore it is reasonable, either as environmental mitigation if technically
appropriate, or as part of a development agreement, for Stanford to contribute to a fair share of the
capacity increase that benefits the institution and its employees.
* Provide Stanford's leading TDM benefits to long-term contract workers. Stanford, like many large
employers, sources some basic functions at its facilities from contracting organizations. Our
understanding is that workers for these contracting agencies are not eligible for transportation
benefits. Data from Palo Alto's TMA indicates that workers without transportation benefits drive at a
higher rate than workers with benefits. We urge Stanford to provide TDM benefits to these classes of
workers, benefiting the workers, Stanford, the City of Palo Alto and neighbors with resulting reduction
in traffic and parking demand.

Thank you for your consideration,

- Adina
Adina Levin
Friends of Caltrain
http://greencaltrain.com
650-646-4344




                                                        1
February 2, 2018

County of Santa Clara
Department of Planning and Development
County Government Center
70 West Hedding Street, San Jose, CA 95110
Attention: David Rader
david.rader@pln.sccgov.org

Dear Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors,

Thank you for the opportunity to provide feedback on the Stanford General Use Permit (GUP).
Friends of Caltrain is a 501c3 nonprofit focusing on sustainable transportation on the Peninsula
Corridor. We respectfully submit the following comments for your consideration:

Transportation Infrastructure
   ● Caltrain Capacity funding. Stanford’s growth, and success at encouraging transit use,
      will add many more riders to Caltrain, which has been running at capacity. The
      electrification project being constructed is the first of several steps to add capacity to the
      system. The EIR does not fully analyze impact on Caltrain capacity. We recommend
      more robust analysis on the impact of the project on Caltrain crowding, and funding
      contributing to the upcoming phases of Caltrain modernization, providing longer trains,
      longer platforms, and level boarding, which will allow Caltrain to carry more Stanford
      commuters and help Stanford achieve its “no net new trips” goal.
   ● Bicycle connections between the Palo Alto Transit Center, Stanford, and Palo Alto.
      Caltrain has the highest rate of bicycle use for first/last mile connections in the US.
      However, the routes connecting Stanford to and through the Palo Alto Transit Center are
      confusing and stressful. The bicycle mode share from north Palo Alto is lower than West
      Menlo Park, and Stanford's bikeshed studies confirm that Palm Drive has one of the
      lowest bicycle volumes. Therefore, it would be valuable for Stanford to partner with the
      City of Palo Alto, CalTrans and other agencies to create a more stress-free, continuous
      cycling experience along University Avenue to Palm Drive corridor, and from the Quarry
      district to the transit center and downtown services, including the route to/from the
      Homer Tunnel. Such improvements would help improve access to the transit center, but
      improve access to Stanford from North Palo Alto and East Palo Alto.
Transportation Demand Management
   ● Extend TDM benefits for “Other Workers.” We applaud the no-net new trips goal, and
      Stanford’s success over time in reducing vehicle trips. However, the EIR’s extrapolation
      that “Other Workers” (Temporary, casual, seasonal workers who have <50% FTE roles)
      are likely to have transportation patterns similar to full-time employees is problematic,
      since these jobs are often lower-income and workers may live in different places with
      different commute patterns. Commute patterns of these worker populations should be
      studied directly, with the results included in VMT and no net new trips assessments.

       Given a projected increase of 2500 “Other Workers” between 2015 and 2035 this could
       worker population growth account for a significant number of daily trips. Other workers
       should also be able to benefit from transit passes, rideshare, carpool and other TDM
       benefits to reduce SOV commutes that full time regular employees have in order to
       extend Stanford’s TDM performance and meet the “no net new trips” obligation.

   ●   Update “offsite mitigations” to be more multi-modal, working with neighboring TDM
       programs. Historically, the Stanford Community plan provides an additional means to
       achieve No Net New Commute Trips through implementation of "offsite" programs to
       reduce trips in other jurisdictions. Current examples of such offsite mitigations include: 1)
       Marguerite riders outside the cordon, 2) hospital employees in the Commute Club, and
       3) hospital employees on the East Bay bus service. Currently, the area eligible for
       “offsite mitigations” includes roadways proximate to the Stanford Campus. In recent
       years, Palo Alto and nearby communities have established TDM policies and are moving
       forward with Transportation Management Associations with programs to reduce vehicle
       trips. These organizations are typically starting from a higher drivealone mode share
       base, similar to where Stanford was before the No Net New Trips requirement.

       Building on the offsite mitigation program, we recommend that Santa Clara County
       change the definition of the eligible geography to a 45 minute transit or bicycle
       commuteshed. Offsite mitigations could include contributions to transportation
       management associations, joining forces to negotiate new transit routes and expand
       transit service with Caltrain, VTA, SamTrans, AC Transit, and pool transportation
       benefits (bikeshare, carshare, etc), focused on reducing peak hour trips within the transit
       and bicycle commuteshed. Such an effort can significantly improve regional
       transportation linkages by create a wider "Stanford Plus" transit sphere of influence.

Housing
   ● More housing on (or near) campus. Over the last several years, EIRs for Stanford’s
      General Use Permit and other major plans in the region show that housing near jobs
      results in lower VMT per person. The 3150 beds/housing units proposed in the draft
      GUP is welcome and much needed, but the projected jobs increase still results in a
      shortfall of 2425 housing units. Please consider adding more housing options particularly
      for administrative staff, post-doctorates and Stanford workers who have fewer local
       options due to high local rental prices. We also encourage Stanford to partner with the
       City of Palo Alto or the County of Santa Clara to explore more housing on nearby sites.

   ●   Housing locations. Stanford proposes to change the location where affordable housing
       impact fees could be used from within a 6-mile radius to any location near robust transit.
       However, the proposal as written could logically provide funding for housing near the
       Antioch eBART station, SMART in Santa Rosa, ACE in Tracy or some transit location
       with a 2.5+hour one-way commute to Stanford. We would recommend modifying the
       proposal to apply to locations near transit, within a 60-minute transit commuteshed to
       Stanford, and favoring locations within 6 miles and a 45 minute transit commute.

Since the 2000 General Use Permit went into effect, Stanford has been a regional leader in
practices to reduce solo driving and transportation impact. We hope that you and Stanford’s
planning team consider these comments to strengthen Stanford’s role in helping to solve these
important challenges.

Sincerely,




Adina Levin
Friends of Caltrain
http://greencaltrain.com
650-646-4344
                                                             COUNCIL MEETING

                                                             ✔
                                                                      08/20/2018
                                                                 Received Before Meeting
                                                                                              2 3 4 5
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 1:36 PM
Carnahan, David

From:                                Ng, Judy
Sent:                                Friday, August 17, 2018 1:18 PM
To:                                  Council Members; ORG - Clerk's Office; Council Agenda Email
Cc:                                  Keene, James; Shikada, Ed; De Geus, Robert; Flaherty, Michelle; Minor, Beth; Dauler,
                                     Heather; Lloyd, Debra; Nickel, Eric; Richardson, Harriet; Dailey, Karla; Abendschein,
                                     Jonathan; Batchelor, Dean
Subject:                             8/20 Council Agenda Questions for Items 2, 3, 4, & 5




 Dear Mayor and Council Members:

 On behalf of City Manager Jim Keene, please find below in bold staff responses to inquiries
 made by Council Member Tanaka and Kou in regard to the August 20, 2018 council meeting
 agenda.

 Item 2: Determination of Potential Risk of Wildfires Caused by Electric Lines – CM Tanaka

 Item 3: Policy and Services Committee Recommendation to Accept the Auditor’s Office
 Quarterly Report as of March 31, 2018 – CM Tanaka

 Item 4: Policy and Services Recommendation to Accept the ERP Planning: Information
 Technology and Data Governance Audit – CM Tanaka

 Item 5: Resolution Supporting a Bay Delta Plan Negotiated Settlement – CM Tanaka and Kou


 Item 2: Determination of Potential Risk of Wildfires Caused by Electric Lines – CM Tanaka

           Q. 1. If this is mandated by state law, why does Council need to approve the
           mitigation measures?

           A. 1. The law itself requires Council approval of mitigation measures. (Please
           refer to the Discussion portion of the staff report which reads “[o]nce a
           determination is made, the law mandates a second step: Council approval of
           mitigation efforts....”) Specially, Public Utilities Code 8387 (c) states in part: “the
           local publicly owned electric utility or electrical cooperative shall, at an interval
           determined by the (governing) board, present to the board for its approval those
           wildfire mitigation measures….”

           Q. 2. Why is there no resource impact to this?

           A. 2. There is no resource impact because Council’s action will not modify any
           operation or policy, adds no work requirements, and requires no financial
                                                                  1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 1:36 PM
        resources beyond current actions mandated by state regulations. As noted in the
        staff report, no specific activities will begin as a result of Council’s
        determination. Vegetation clearance and inspection are already required and
        ongoing activities.




 Item 3: Policy and Services Committee Recommendation to Accept the Auditor’s Office
 Quarterly Report as of March 31, 2018 – CM Tanaka

        Q. 1. What were the deficiencies?

        A. 1. I believe that this question is in regard to the ERP Planning: Information
        Technology and Data Governance Audit, which is listed as “complete” in the
        Quarterly Report. The audit conclusion was that the City does not have a sufficient
        IT or data governance structure, including policies and procedures that clearly
        define roles and responsibilities. It is essential for the City to develop IT and data
        governance processes prior to implementing a new ERP system to ensure that
        implementation and ongoing operation of the system are successful, in alignment
        with City goals and objectives, and that existing data are accurate, consistent, and
        complete before being migrated into the new system.

        Q. 2. Is the report ready now since it is already pass mid‐2018?

        A. 2. I believe that this question is also in regard to the ERP Planning: Information
        Technology and Data Governance Audit. We presented that audit to the Policy &
        Services Committee on June 21, 2018. It is included on the Council’s Consent
        Agenda for August 20, 2018, and is available here:
        https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/66250.

        Q. 3. Currently have you found any missing items or damaged ones in the inventory
        for the Mobile Device Inventory and any lapses in Security?

        A. 3. We do not provide information on what we are finding in an audit until we
        publish the audit report. The reason is that the Government Auditing Standards
        require that we validate, prior to issuing a report, that the evidence supports the
        findings, conclusions, and recommendations contained in the audit report. We do
        this as part of our audit quality control process, also required by the Government
        Auditing Standards, which occurs at the end of the audit, after the audit report
        has been drafted. We do not want to prematurely release information and then
        have to reverse what we said at a later date if we were not able to validate it. This
        audit is currently in the field work phase, so the auditor is in the process now of
                                                           2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 1:36 PM
        collecting the information you requested, but we cannot release that until the
        report is complete and the work has been reviewed.

        Q. 4. How far along is the report for the ones which are in the mid‐2018 phase?

        A. 4. This will be addressed more fully in the September Quarterly Report, but
        here is a quick update (in same order as listed in the June Quarterly Report):

              ERP Planning: Data Reliability and Integrity – Data Standardization. This
               report is currently being reviewed with the applicable departments, which
               is a standard process we go through to ensure report accuracy prior to
               finalizing it and requesting the City Manager’s official written response.
              Code Enforcement Audit. This report is being reviewed with the applicable
               departments. The review process is taking longer than usual because of
               the number of departments involved and the need for us to schedule
               multiple meetings to go through the report with them.
              ERP Planning: Separation of Duties. This report is currently being reviewed
               with the applicable departments.
              ERP Planning Audit: Data Reliability and Integrity of Human
               Resources/Payroll Data – A report has been drafted and I expect to do my
               review of it next week.
              Business Registry – This audit is out for the City Manager’s official
               response. I expect it to be completed in time to be on the September 11
               Policy and Services Committee agenda.
              Mobile Device Inventory and Security. Audit is in the field work phase.
              Transferable Development Rights. Audit is still in the planning phase.
              Nonprofit Organizations Audit. Audit is still in the planning phase but
               should be in the field work phase starting next week.
              Contract Oversight. Audit is still in the planning phase but should be in the
               field work phase starting next week or the following week.

        Q. 5. Can you release some of your main concerns and what form of advice you
        gave to the IT Department, and how did their participation limit your involvement?
        (ERP Non‐Audit)

        A. 5. Our concerns centered around the City’s readiness for a new ERP system.
        The City had not addressed the recommendations provided in the 2014 ERP
        system evaluation report (CMR ID# 6192, Study Session, 2/29/16), and has
        experienced turnover of key positions with more to come. Our recommendations
        included that the City, prior to awarding a contract:

              Establish a formal ERP governance structure to provide strategic direction,
               solicit and aggregate staff input, and make informed project decisions.
              Define expected business benefits and determine how to measure
               success.
              Identify and assess project risks, such as cost overrun and project delay,
               considering the availability of resources, integration and customization
               needs, and competing priorities.



                                                          3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 1:36 PM
              Develop a project plan and budget that can mitigate project risks,
               considering hidden costs such as internal resources and backfill costs
               required for the design phase or data cleansing.
              Design and negotiate a contract that can sufficiently mitigate project risks.
               Formalize contract administration roles and responsibility.

        IT department staff indicated that our recommendations are being addressed, and
        suggested that we discuss after the vendor selection how we can work together
        moving forward. We have not attended any ERP meetings this fiscal year.

        Q. 6. How many of the 3,000 returned the surveys? (Custom Citizen Survey)

        A. 6. We received 632 responses to the Custom Citizen Survey. The response rate
        was 22 percent (632÷2,879, not ÷3,000 because 121 of the surveys mailed were
        returned as undeliverable).

        Q. 7. How are you planning to increase the response rate? What is the current
        response rate? Are there particular demographics not responding to the survey, and
        are there other ones we should be sending our surveys? Could these be done
        electronically so that the people do not have to mail them in? (National Citizen
        Survey)

        A. 7. The response rate was 21 percent in 2017. We shortened the 2018 survey as
        a way of trying to increase the response rate. I asked all department directors to
        go through the survey and delete questions where resident opinion is not
        important to them and also gave the Council an opportunity to identify questions
        they thought needed to be retained or could be deleted. We also deleted
        demographic questions that are not used for weighting or in our analysis of how
        various demographic groups respond. The 2018 surveys went in the mail last
        week. The City Manager’s communication staff are posting information about it
        on the City’s social media sites and Nextdoor to encourage residents who receive
        the survey to respond. They also sent a press release to the media and will be
        posting information about the survey on the reader board in the City Hall lobby.

        We cannot target specific demographic groups because we do not have data that
        shows addresses for residents who fall within any specific demographic group.
        Doing so would also void the statistical reliability of the survey. The National
        Research Center conducts the survey by randomly selecting a statistical sample of
        residents that covers all parts of the City. Statistically, this should capture an
        appropriate number of residents from various demographic groups.

        Residents already have the option of responding electronically to the survey. Of
        the 614 completed surveys in 2017, 149 responded online. A link to the online
        survey is included in the letter residents receive with their survey packet, but
        most residents continue to prefer doing the survey on paper.

        Q. 8. Are there any important issues you have come upon from the Utilities Risk
        Oversight Committee & Information Security Steering Committee?

        A. 8. No. The UROCC is a forum that serves primarily as a resource for vetting
        topics/issues that will come before the Utilities Advisory Commission and the City
                                                          4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 1:36 PM
        Council at a later date. However, if we learned anything that would cause us
        concern from an audit perspective, we would consider adding it to our next
        annual audit work plan.

        Q. 9. Have the misallocations been researched and solved? If not, how many of
        them are done? (Sales and Use Tax Allocation Reviews)

        A. 9. The California Department of Tax and Fee Administration (CDTFA) conducts
        the research for potential misallocations based on inquiries from us and our sales
        and use tax consultant. The number cited as waiting to be researched changes
        quarterly based on reviews that the CDFTA has completed and new inquiries from
        us and our consultant, so the number is never going to be zero.

        Q. 10. What were the goals and objectives? (Inventory Management)

        A. 10. The objective of the inventory management audit was to determine if the
        City has adequate controls to ensure accuracy and completeness of inventory
        records, accountability for inventory transactions, and safeguarding of inventory.

        Q. 11. Is the management report the new one for ERP or the old SAP?

        A. 11. The inventory management audit was issued in 2014, before there were
        plans for a new ERP. Thus, the recommendation was made in the context of the
        current SAP system, but we would expect the reports and configuration to also be
        made in a new ERP system when implemented.

        Q. 12. How has the city been monitoring duplicate invoices up to now? And how
        effective and efficient is that method?

        A. 12. The City relied on SAP to prevent duplicate invoices, but the City’s SAP
        configuration required a near‐exact match in subsequent invoice data to offer a
        “soft warning,” which the user could bypass to accept the invoice without
        verifying if the invoice was indeed a duplicate. Duplicate vendor master records in
        SAP made the configuration less effective because duplicate invoices could each
        be posted to a different vendor master record. This configuration control could be
        considered efficient but only moderately effective because of the bypass option.
        Administrative Services Department staff also stated that they relied on manual
        processes, such as periodic account analysis, vendor relationships, and contracts,
        which we did not view as either effective or efficient.

        Q. 13. Has whether the new e‐procurement system or tech solution can help with
        the tracking and reporting of green purchases performance measures been
        evaluated?

        A. 13. No, please see the implementation status for recommendation 6, which is
        available here:
        https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/65429.

        Q. 14. Is it more cost efficient to hire someone who is already an expert in the field
        inspections, or is it better to put them through a training program as suggested?

                                                            5
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 1:36 PM

        A. 14. I believe that this question pertains to the Cross Bore Inspection Contract
        audit. It is more cost efficient to contract out this service than to hire additional
        City staff or train existing staff to do this work. The service will no longer be
        needed after the inspections of all sewer lines have been completed.

        Q.15. Have the billing errors been corrected, since the due date for this
        recommendation was 5/18?

        A. 15. Yes, please see the implementation status for recommendation 1.1 in the
        status report, which is available here:
        https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/65405.

        Q. 16. Should the currently installed eMeters be replaced?

        A. 16. Customers who had an eMeter installed were provided the opportunity to
        have their meter replaced. 55 of the 1,178 customers who had eMeters opted to
        have their meter replaced. Please see the implementation status for
        recommendation 2.3 in the status report, which is available here:
        https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/65405.



 Item 4: Policy and Services Recommendation to Accept the ERP Planning: Information
 Technology and Data Governance Audit – CM Tanaka

        Q. 1. If the City assigns new responsibilities, would it just be for one person? Will it
        require additional budget?

        A. 1. I do not see this as assigning new responsibilities or requiring additional
        budget or staff. Paragraph 2.08.240(a)(2) of the Palo Alto Municipal Code already
        requires the Director of Information Technology “To direct and manage
        interdepartmental technology governance, planning and coordination activities to
        accomplish specific city‐wide objectives.” So in essence, the audit is saying that
        the department should do something that it is already required to do and should
        be managing its staff in a manner that accomplishes that.

        Q. 2. How would this help make data more accessible to the public?

        A. 2. Yes, it should help make data more accessible to the public. It is much easier
        to aggregate and publish data into a publishable format when it has standardized
        formats and it is known that it represents what it purports to represent. Having
        strong governance policies and practices helps accomplish that.



 Item 5: Resolution Supporting a Bay Delta Plan Negotiated Settlement – CM Tanaka and Kou

 CM Tanaka


                                                             6
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 1:36 PM
          Q. 1. Does endorsing this mean we endorse cutting Palo Alto water's usage by
          roughly 50% as the plan goals state (to increased flows on the Tuolumne River by
          40%)?

          A. 1. This resolution endorses the goals of the Bay Delta Plan, which includes
          improving the health of the Tuolumne River and endorses a voluntary settlement
          among all parties (environmental groups, agricultural users, urban water users,
          etc.) rather than endorsing the Bay Delta Plan as it is currently formulated. Under
          the Bay Delta Plan, at normal water demand levels, 40‐50% rationing could be
          necessary during dry years. Even at current depressed water usage levels, 20‐30%
          rationing would be required in a dry year. The number of dry year shortages
          would double or triple from the existing projected number of 1 in every 10 years
          to 2 or 3 in every 10 years.

 CM Kou

          Q. 1. The Tuolumne River Trust provided information that is different from the
          staff report. Has staff found any factual errors in the TRT video?

          https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pL_INODOxsI&feature=youtu.be

          A. 1. As to video, just note factual inaccuracies and/or mischaracterizations

          a.    TRT: SFPUC’s analysis of the Bay Delta Plan falsely characterizes the
          anticipated water supply impacts.

          SFPUC’s analysis is correct. It considers an appropriate design drought (longer
          than has been observed in the past but realistic given climate change). TRT
          represents accurately that several other agencies only plan for the minimum
          drought required by the State, which up until recently was a 3‐year drought. TRT
          neglects to mention that the new State Urban Water Management Plan requires a
          minimum 5‐year drought plan. Given climate change and the high consequences
          of losing water supply in an extended drought, staff has traditionally been
          comfortable with the SFPUC’s 8.5 year standard for drought planning.

          b.   TRT: The economic study prepared by SFPUC’s expert has been “debunked.”

          The author of the study is an expert in the field, and the study accurately
          predicted how the region responded to the most recent drought. Due to the State‐
          mandated water use reduction (16% average across the region), agencies focused
          of reducing residential and dedicated irrigation customers, and almost no water
          use reductions were required from businesses. Depending on the BAWSCA
          agency, reductions of more than 20‐30% will require water rationing by
          commercial and industrial customers that translates into reduced economic
          output and job losses. A mandatory water use reduction of 50% would
          significantly impact all customers. It should also be noted that the economic
          study is separate from the SFPUC’s modeling of dry‐year water supply impacts.
          This model showed that , at normal water demand levels, 40‐50% rationing could
          be necessary during dry years. Even at current depressed water usage levels, 20‐
          30% rationing would be required in a dry year. The number of dry year shortages

                                                            7
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 1:36 PM
        would double or triple from the existing projected number of 1 in every 10 years
        to 2 or 3 in every 10 years.

        c.  TRT: The SFPUC has a contractual obligation with the irrigation districts to
        support their position of fish flow matters.

        No such contractual obligation exists. The contract cited by the TRT pertained to
        an expired FERC license for Don Pedro Reservoir, a facility in which the SFPUC
        holds some storage capacity. The obligation does not pertain any SRWCB
        proceedings, the current FERC re‐licensing proceeding, nor future FERC re‐
        licensing proceedings.

        d. TRT: Water can be purchased from other sources, such as agricultural
        districts, at a reasonable price to make up for shortfalls during a drought.

        Since 2001 both BAWSCA and the SFPUC have sought to enter into water
        transfers, specifically to address dry year needs. To date those efforts have been
        unsuccessful. Parties, including the TRT, have opposed water transfers in the past.

        e. TRT: The SFPUC opposed the Bay Delta Plan because they are planning for
        massive development driven by Plan Bay Area.

        The SFPUC is not a land use management agency. The SFPUC does not rely on Plan
        Bay Area but on the growth projections provided by the individual land use
        management agencies. It should be noted that, even at current depressed water
        usage levels, 20‐30% rationing would be required in a dry year.

        Q. 2. Why was the BAWSCA statement included in the staff report, but nothing
        from the Tuolumne River Trust?

        A. 2. Palo Alto is a member of BAWSCA, so it was appropriate to include
        BAWSCA’s statement. There are numerous perspectives from parties commenting
        on the Bay Delta Plan that were not included, including a variety of environmental
        groups, agricultural groups, and urban water agencies.

        Q. 3. What role did BAWSCA play in producing the staff report?

        A. 3. BAWSCA staff reviewed the report written by Palo Alto staff.


Thank you,
Judy Ng



             Judy Ng
             City Manager’s Office|Administrative Associate III
             250 Hamilton Avenue | Palo Alto, CA 94301
             Phone: (650) 329‐2105
             Email: Judy.Ng@CityofPaloAlto.org


                                                                  8
                                                                                     COUNCIL MEETING
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 3:09 PM
                                                                                      ✔
                                                                                              08/20/2018
                                                                                          Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                                      8
Carnahan, David

From:                              Roberta Ahlquist <roberta.ahlquist@sjsu.edu>
Sent:                              Monday, August 20, 2018 2:21 PM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           Save the existing rental housing at the President Hotel


Dear City Councilmembers:




It's been two months now since the Hotel President building was sold. WHAT ROLE IS THE CITY GOING TO TAKE TO
HELP THE TENANTS REMAIN IN THEIR HOMES? There are viable solutions: Pass an interim urgency ordinance. Allow
tenants to stay at the same rents until they move out. Place an emergency moratorium on the demotion or removal of
rental housing until replacement housing is available at the same rents. This is a fair,just way to address the issue.

 This is an urgent issue. :You can help these tenants stay in their homes. Be creative in finding solutions. What role might
the PA Housing Corporation play?




Now is the time to act!




Sincerely,




Roberta Ahlquist, Women's International League for Peace & Freedom Low-Income Housing

Committee




                                                              1
                                                                              COUNCIL MEETING
                                                                                                              10
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:16 AM
                                                                                       08/27/2018
                                                                               ✔
                                                                                   Received Before Meeting
Carnahan, David

From:                           Virginia Smedberg <virgviolin@hotmail.com>
Sent:                           Sunday, August 19, 2018 10:38 PM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        ADU's



Dear Palo Alto City Council Members:

I have not read all of the information, so I am simply putting forth to you a perspective about the idea of
ADUs, from my own life.

1) infilling is a more efficient way of utilizing our space and facilities, especially transportation.
2) allowing an ADU could permit another family member ‐ in this case I am a Great Aunt ‐ to live in close
proximity to family but still have some personal space.
In my case, I am fortunate to have a home with a separate enough bedroom and bath, and family with enough
tolerance of my presence, and different enough living schedules (kitchen dances), so that I can live in the same
space as my niece and her family. But not all homes, or family dynamics, would allow that.
3) allowing ADUs could potentially allow local teachers, firefighters and other community workers to actually
live in the community whose work they do.
In my case, since my niece is a teacher in PAUSD, I feel fortunate that she and her family can live here with me,
and bike or walk to work.

So those are my perspectives. I hope you will consider them.

Sincerely,

Virginia Smedberg
441 Washington Ave
Palo Alto 94301




                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 7:50 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                   Michael Harbour <dr.mharbour@gmail.com>
Sent:                                   Wednesday, August 15, 2018 9:37 PM
To:                                     Council, City; Stump, Molly
Subject:                                Appellant's Objections to New Design for 429 University Ave
Attachments:                            Appellants' Objections to 429 University.pdf


Dear Palo Alto Council Members and Ms. Stump,
Please find the Appellant's objections to the newly submitted designs for 429 University Avenue in preparation of the quasi-judicial ARB
hearing on Thursday August 16, 2018.
Thank you,
Michael Harbour, MD, MPH on behalf of Appellants for 429 University Ave




                                                                     1
                                 Palo Alto ARB Quasi-Judicial Hearing
                     Appellants’ Objections to 429 University Ave Design Proposal
                                           August 16, 2018
History: This project was appealed by neighbors and community members. Project was NOT
approved by the Palo Alto ARB and the HRB. However, the project was narrowly approved by the city
council on February 6, 2017. The applicant has exceeded her 1-year time limit and was granted an
extension by the planning depart.

Today: Quasi-Judicial Public Hearing as mandated by the City Council decision

New Architect: Peter Tat-Ping Ko
Landscape Architect: Greg Ing

Reason for Quasi-Judicial Hearing:

   1. Evaluate Proposed West Elevation Wall Design
   2. Evaluate Landscape Details
   3. Evaluate Exterior Building Materials, Colors and Craftmanship

Objection to West Elevation based on Municipal Code Violation 18.18.110

   1. West Elevation Wall Design is out of character and context with rest of the building design. It
      is not consistent nor compatible with that which was originally proposed to this ARB Board or
      City Council by Architect Joe Bellomo.
   2. The side chevrons appear like some sort of tribal pattern and clearly stick out as an add on by
      a different person not related to the original project.
   3. When looking eastward down University Ave, the design is not compatible with the iconic
      Varsity Theatre architecture, Birge Clark former Apple building and the Hotel President.
It is Impossible to Evaluate the Expected Craftsmanship of the building or landscape because the
applicant has not provided any background information, experience or completed past projects of
either the new building architect, contractor, project manager or landscape architect.

   1. Joe Bellomo and associates have disavowed themselves from this design. In a phone
      conversation with Mr. Bellomo, he told Dr. Harbour that “the current design is NOT his” and
      he is “no longer affiliated with the building.” Therefore, the applicant is obligated to resubmit
      the entire plan to the ARB, Council and community in its entirety for evaluation. It these
      plans is not satisfactory, then the ARB must immediately notify the city council of such.
   2. The applicant previously praised her choice of architect for this project as the recipient of
      multiple award including the Birge Clark Award. She told all of us at a past ARB hearing that it
      would be an “iconic” building that would anchor the existing building at 102 University Ave at
      Alma St. He has a known track record. Now that architect is no longer affiliated and
      disavows this building, this must be taken into consideration for the approval.
   3. The Bellomo project is unique because of it’s construction materials and craftsmanship. The
      applicant and her designees must convince this Board and the appellant that they have the
      experience and capability to construct and manage such a project. What can they offer to
      convince us of this?
   4. It appears that the applicant has committed a “Bait and Switch” tactic to cut costs which will
      result in unknown quality and craftsmanship. This is too important and historic parcel to be
      left to chance without additional scrutiny and confirmation of quality. We must remember
      that Birge Clark designed buildings are to be torn down to construct this new building.
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/21/2018 2:31 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Davina Brown <browntow@pacbell.net>
Sent:                              Tuesday, August 21, 2018 9:57 AM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           Message from the City Council Home Page


I would like to express my support again for putting the train in a trench. I understand that the expense is outrageous,
but it is for forever. We do this not for ourselves and our quality of life, but for all future Palo Altans.
Please do not rule out this BEST solution because of cost. We must and will find a way to pay for it.

Davina Brown
Palo Alto Resident for over 50 years




                                                            1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/21/2018 2:30 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                                         Magic <magic@ecomagic.org>
Sent:                                         Tuesday, August 21, 2018 10:05 AM
To:                                           Council, City
Subject:                                      Bay Delta Plan


Dear Councilmembers,

Thank you for voting unanimously to support the CA Department of Water Resources scientifically sound Bay Delta plan. I'm grateful for
your leadership on this matter with its very important long-term implications for the balance we strike between those of us who seem willing
to convert every bit of nature we're able to human biomass and artifact, and those who recognize that doing so impoverishes us all.

Listening to the people who argued in favor of "negotiated settlement," I wondered where they were as the salmon population dropped from
100,000+ to <1,000. Realizing that they were willing to do to the Tuolome what we've done to the Colorado (now bone dry before it reaches
the Gulf of California) in order to move more people into the Bay Area, all the while pretending that, "We support the goals of the plan," I
felt immensely sad. Thank you again for declining to heed them.

With appreciation,

David Schrom




********** Magic, 1979-2018: thirty-nine years of valuescience leadership ***********

Magic demonstrates how people can address individual, social, and environmental ills
nearer their roots by applying science to discern value more accurately and realize
it more fully.

Enjoy the satisfaction of furthering Magic's work by making one-time or recurring
gifts at http://ecomagic.org/participate.shtml#contribute. Magic is a 501(c)(3) public
charity. Contributions are tax-deductible to the full extent permitted by law.

                        THANK YOU!

www.ecomagic.org -------- (650) 323-7333 --—----- Magic, Box 15894, Stanford, CA 94309

**************************************************************************************




                                                                                1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/23/2018 7:39 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Mark Moragne <mwmoragne@mac.com>
Sent:                            Tuesday, August 21, 2018 5:53 PM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan


Dear Council Members,

Thank you for endorsing the Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan!

Mark Moragne




                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/21/2018 2:30 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Joe Hirsch <jihirschpa@earthlink.net>
Sent:                         Tuesday, August 21, 2018 10:35 AM
To:                           Council, City; Tam, Valerie; Keene, James; Stump, Molly
Cc:                           Gal Eva; Satterthwaite Ruth; Keehn Suzanne; Holzemer Terry
Subject:                      Bulb-Outs on Arastradero in Green Acres



Dear Council Members.

My three-minute presentation to you last night did not fit well into
the two minutes that were allotted. My apologies for not also
preparing a two minute version, but I had a lot to say, and,
unfortunately, much went unsaid. Here is the full text of what I had
hoped to say last night:

"Mayor Kniss and Council Members:

I am here tonight to make you aware of new concerns we in the Green Acres neighborhood have
about the Arastradero road construction.



The new concerns pertain to the so-called “bulb-outs” that are proposed to be added at the
intersections of seven streets with Arastradero. All are on the N or NW side of Arastradero. There
are none on the other side of Arastradero in our area for some unknown reason.



They are large, they decrease the width of the entrances to each of those seven streets, forcing
passing cars closer together, potentially leaving the rear end of a car out in Arastradero where
rear end collisions might happen if the driver entering one of those seven streets stops short for
some reason and/or the following driver is not paying proper attention.



The worst intersection by far is at Donald Drive where students on bicycles are told to stop in a
bright green box in the middle of Donald waiting for the light to turn green so they can cross
Arastradero on their way to middle school. A rear end collision there might push the front car
into the waiting cyclists. This could be worse as cars turning left from Donald onto Arastradero
                                                      1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/21/2018 2:30 PM
queue up behind the waiting cyclists. Thus, a worse-case scenario is where the waiting cyclists
are pushed against any car waiting behind them. Bulb-outs at this particular intersection are, in
my opinion, and the opinions of others living on Donald and Willmar, to be an incredibly poor
design, leading potentially to major legal liability for the city.



Signs posted by the city give a rationale for these bulb-outs. In one instance, “this corner is being
extended to provide a safer refuge on the corner for pedestrians, as well as to shorten the distance
a pedestrian needs to cross” the given street. Sounds textbook to us as Arastradero is not a
pedestrian thoroughfare. It is vehicular arterial with little pedestrian activity. Sure pedestrian
activity happens, but not in the quantities that require a "refuge" on each corner, some of which
are huge.



Two of us spent approximately 45 minutes on a Wednesday afternoon with two members of city
staff – only one pedestrian and one jogger came by. A number of us met with two city council
members on two separate occasions for about 45-60 minutes and only a handful of
pedestrians/joggers came by. I drive Arastradero Road all the time and have never seen a large
number of walkers in the area where the bulb-outs are proposed. Simply stated, once again,
Arastradero Road is not a pedestrian thoroughfare.



A good friend has written city staff indicating that the bulb-outs are “a solution in search of a
problem.” I fully agree.



So, what are we asking for? The elimination of all of the bulb-outs in our area. This will maintain
what we have now, which we don’t think has been unsafe or dangerous.



Advantages of following this recommendation: it will prevent the city from constructing
something that could lead to potential legal liability if our assessments are correct that students,
in particular, might be injured, which, of course, none of us want to happen, and it would save
the city some money in the process.



Bottom line, avoid textbook planning. Be guided as to what has happened in the past in this area
and what is happening now.

                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/21/2018 2:30 PM
Why construct something that is neither needed nor wanted?



Thank you."



Personally, I think Council would be remiss if you don't ask for a thorough review of all the bulb-
outs that are planned for Arastradero (and Charleston as well) or city staff undertakes that review
on its own. If nothing else, from a potential legal liability point of view if there is any belief that,
if installed, the bulb-outs could lead to future collisions of any sort. At the very least, the
Donald/Arastradero intersection, in my opinion and the opinions of others, has to be reviewed
and modified (delete the bulb-outs?) to avoid any possibility of injury to students now massing
in the middle of the Donald waiting for the traffic signal to turn green.



Thank you for your consideration of this request.



Joe Hirsch

Georgia Avenue

jihirschpa@earthlink.net

(650) 493-9169




                                                     3
                                                                          Please Contact the Clerk’s Office
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:26 AM                   to View Additional Pages,
                                                                          Attachments, or Images Related
                                                                                  to this Document
Carnahan, David

From:                         David Page <dalpage5@gmail.com>
Sent:                         Saturday, August 18, 2018 3:45 PM
To:                           Council, City
Subject:                      climate/solar energy


"TRAILBLAZERS...Four Palo Alto firefighters arrived back into town on Aug. 9 after 15 days of
battling flames and protecting properties from state wildfires...

...FIELD OF BEAMS ... Solar panels continue to be a hot item in Palo Alto, with the school district
leading the charge. For board members, the installations make plenty of sense. They provide clean
power and, according to a recent feasibility study, will save the district about $1.1 million over the
course of their 25-year useful life. Not everyone, however, is thrilled. In May, the school board
backed away from its plan to install solar panels in Palo Alto High School's front parking lot after
residents argued that the installations would obscure views of historic Paly buildings."



Dear Council Members

Within the same article of the current Weekly [see above], we see a short description of how climate-
warming touches us all, as well as how my (uninformed?) fellow citizens can feel inconvenienced
when a tiny effort is made to reduce emissions of poison-pollution.

This e-mail is an attempt to say thank you for pushing ahead with local emission reduction plans, and
a plea to go much further towards eliminating such pollution. The fate of human civilization is not a
Palo Alto-only problem, but local visionary leadership will be fondly remembered by [the dwindling
number of] future generations.




Thank you very much, David Page

3115 Avalon Court, Palo Alto 94306




ps: in case the crisis of climate warming seems vague, maybe some photos will help:




                                                     1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:26 AM




Found dead [ Carr Fire, 7/18 ] in Redding, from left, Emily Roberts, 5; Melody Bledsoe, 70; and James Roberts, 4. [
great-grand mother and great grand children ]




                                                         2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:32 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           D Martell <dmpaloalto@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Sunday, August 19, 2018 2:00 PM
To:                             Stump, Molly
Cc:                             CHamilton@da.sccgov.org; JRosen@dao.sccgov.org; Jonsen, Robert; Goodell, Erin;
                                Anne.Ream@mail.house.gov; Senator.Hill@senate.ca.gov; Alex Kobayashi;
                                Supervisor.Simitian@bos.sccgov.org; Micaela.Hellman-Tincher@bos.sccgov.org; Kniss,
                                Liz (internal); Council, City; Scharff, Gregory (internal); Keene, James; Minor, Beth;
                                Carnahan, David; VHS101@yahoo.com; Bill Johnson; Jay Thorwaldson; Dave Price;
                                Allison@padailypost.com; EmiBach@padailypost.com; JGreen@dailynews.com;
                                Kleinberg, Judy; richard@alexanderlaw.com; Aram James; Andrew Pierce;
                                Debra@firstpaloalto.com; Bear.ride@fprespa.org
Subject:                        CPRA Request | Sex Perversion at Lytton Gardens Senior Communities




Molly Suzanne Stump, JD
City Attorney at City of Palo Alto

        CALIFORNIA PUBLIC RECORDS ACT REQUEST (made this 19th day of August, 2018)

Dear Madame:

Pursuant to California Public Records Act Request (CPRA) (Govt. Code 6250 § et seq.), I am requesting the
release of copies of all emails and paperwork sent and received by PAPD's Detective Erin Goodell, on or
around August 10, 2018 [starting July 23, 2018, through present], to and from Kevin Gerber the CEO of Covia
(formerly Episcopal Senior Communities (ESC)), and others at Covia and Lytton Gardens Senior Communities
(LG) re Case #18-3932. This request encompasses notes, transcripts, and recordings of telephone calls and
other conversations, and date logs. Do not include correspondence between our PAPD and DA Office.

As Covia's CEO oversees LG, and LG's Director is accountable to Covia, the documents I request bring to
Covia's and LG's attention, several events of sexual perversion by different men at LG. Perverts include LG
employees, LG residents, and homeless guy camped out at LG. More specifically, on July 23, 2018, a crime
reported by an elderly woman to PAPD was sent to DA Clarissa Hamilton's "Sexual Assault Unit" for
prosecution consideration.

------------

On the Sunday evening last July 22, a male resident wondered the LG hallways, waiting outside an elevator
while wearing only underwear. The predator exposed his genitals, masturbated, and beckoned the opposite sex
to come near.

Male exhibitionism is about power over women with intent to shock, alarm, frighten and anger. That the
resident understood his crime is evidenced by rapid withdrawal of hands from his genitals, when a photo was
taken.


                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:32 AM
Psychiatrists unanimously agree that mentally-compromised old men, even those with Alzheimer's, do not
SUDDENLY turn exhibitionist. Male exhibitionism is a predisposed mental illness that usually manifests first
symptoms in teenage years and escalates over time. Exhibitionism is a felony that carries zero tolerance in a
HUD-funded senior-living facility that houses mostly frail elderly women.

------------

Absent some legitimate reason for delay provided in the government code, make sure that I receive the
requested documents within ten (10) days of this CPRA Request. Send all correspondence via my email to
dmPaloAlto@gmail.com. Thank you.

Respectfully,
-Danielle Martell
dmPaloAlto@gmail.com




                                                      2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/21/2018 2:36 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                               Sheri Furman <sheri11@earthlink.net>
Sent:                               Monday, August 20, 2018 4:26 PM
To:                                 Council, City; Lait, Jonathan; Keene, James; Shikada, Ed
Cc:                                 nhbeamer@yahoo.com; jeff@levinsky.org; ptaskovich@yahoo.com;
                                    rebsanders@gmail.com; electcormack@gmail.com
Subject:                            Cubberley Master Plan


Hello all,

On behalf of Palo Alto Neighborhoods, I am writing to you to request that the October 4 meeting planned by Concordia
for the Cubberley Master Plan be reconsidered and rescheduled.

First, the date conflicts with PAN’s Council Candidate Forum, which will be held in Council Chambers that evening.

More importantly, we do not believe an adequate community needs assessment can or should be made at a single two-
hour meeting based on who shows up.

As a member of the Cubberley Community Advisory Committee Community Needs Subcommittee, I believe our
conclusions included:

    “Exactly what is needed for the growing school population and what is needed for the evolving city of Palo Alto
    requires more work and expertise than was available to the Cubberley Community Advisory Committee. PAUSD has
    the capacity to identify its needs as population growth unfolds and to identify the best way to meet those needs.

    Deciding which buildings to build or remodel as well as deciding on renting and leasing priorities for a community
    center requires a very thorough community needs assessment to identify what services and opportunities are needed
    by the community, where such services exist now, and what services are best offered at Cubberley to meet community
    needs. We need professional expertise to do this work well. Only by investing in such a systematic study with the
    school district as a willing partner can we be sure we are planning well for a facility that will serve Palo Alto for years
    to come. Such a study will require that PAUSD and the Palo Alto Planning Department work together to determine
    how to meet this broad range of community needs.”

We need services for all ages and cultures, singles and families, workers and retirees.

We need specificity on community needs, obtained through a professional Community Needs Assessment.

While there is great pressure to use the entire site for a school, the reality is that the City owns a portion of the site and
there is just as great a need for a modern, comprehensive community center, not simple a library with meeting rooms as
we have at Mitchell Park.

I repeat, a single two-hour, who shows up meeting does not qualify as a true needs assessment.

Thank you for your consideration

Sheri Furman

PAN Co-chair


                                                                1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/21/2018 2:35 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Alice Smith <alice.smith@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Monday, August 20, 2018 11:58 PM
To:                             Council, City
Cc:                             Peter Drekmeier
Subject:                        Delta plan decision tonight



Thank you for supporting your Bay with your action tonight at the City Council.

Peter Drekmeier: thank you for being so pro active on a matter which impacts the quality of all of our lives.


Kind regards,

Alice Schaffer Smith
850 Webster Street #520
Palo Alto, CA
94301




                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/21/2018 2:28 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                            NRT <nrt@hamilton.com>
Sent:                            Tuesday, August 21, 2018 1:18 PM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         Delta Water Quality Plan


Dear Council members,
A heartfelt Thank You for unanimously voting to endorse the Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan. You held firm even
though the staff report was against.
Nancy Teater, Hamilton Ave




                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:24 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Roberta Ahlquist <roberta.ahlquist@sjsu.edu>
Sent:                              Saturday, August 18, 2018 1:49 PM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           Even the banks are in support



Time to support low-income tenants


Freddie Mac to lower financing costs for landlords who cap rent risesMarketWatch · 1 day ago


Freddie Mac | Rent Control | Real Estate Refinancing


The Real Deal · 1 day ago



Web resulFreddie Mac Has a New Plan to Cap Rent Increases - WSJ
https://www.wsj.com/.../freddie-mac-looks-to-cap-rent-increases-with-new-financing-pro...
1 day ago - Freddie Mac, the country's largest backer of apartment loans, is rolling out a ... The initiative acts
similar to rent control—which has been gaining ...
Sincerely,
Roberta Ahlquist, WILPF Low Income Housing Committee




                                                              1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/21/2018 2:32 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                                James F. Cook <jamesfelixcook@yahoo.com>
Sent:                                Tuesday, August 21, 2018 8:06 AM
To:                                  Council, City
Subject:                             Fw: Please support the State Water Board’s proposal for the Bay Delta Water Quality
                                     Control Plan.



Dear Council Members,

Thank you! Ya'll supported this proposal for the Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan, that's fantastic!!!

Much appreciated,
James

----- Forwarded Message -----
From: James Cook <jamesfelixcook@yahoo.com>
To: "city.council@cityofpaloalto.org" <city.council@cityofpaloalto.org>
Sent: Monday, August 20, 2018 06:30:38 AM PDT
Subject: Please support the State Water Board’s proposal for the Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan.

I want the City Council to deny the staff recommendation and instead support the State Water Board’s proposal for the Bay Delta
Water Quality Control Plan.

Thank you!
James
730 College Ave




                                                                 1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/21/2018 2:36 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Geri <geri@thegrid.net>
Sent:                           Monday, August 20, 2018 9:28 PM
To:                             Council, City
Cc:                             Peter Drekmeier; Geri Mc Gilvray
Subject:                        Fwd: item 5



I repeat:   PLEASE
Support the optimistic plan
of Peter Drekmeier. All species need healthy water in our rivers.

I saw central valley flood irrigating on several occasions. Crazy!

Geri McGilvray

Sent from my iPhone

Begin forwarded message:

       From: Geri <geri@thegrid.net>
       Date: August 18, 2018 at 5:24:05 PM PDT
       To: city.council@cityofpaloalto.org, James.Keene@CityofPaloAlto.org, Peter Drekmeier
       <peter@tuolumne.org>, kbennett@luxsci.net
       Cc: A-MIKE BECHLER <mlb@thegrid.net>, Geri Mc Gilvray <geri@thegrid.net>, IMOGENE
       AND ROCHARD HILBERS <HILBERS@SBCOBAL.NET>
       Subject: Re: item 5

       Hello,

       PLEASE support the BAY DELTA PLAN.

       The TUOLUMNE river needs MORE natural flow in order to suppport any of the healthy wild
       creatures, trees and plants necessary for all species to survive.

       Do not allow the SFPUC to
       Keep manipulating their habitat. Look what happened in Yellowstone when killing all the wolves
       caused the grazing dear to destroy all the vegetation there. Unbelievable!

       Interconnected habitats
       are crucial to everything, everywhere.

       Healthy water should flow into our bay.

       Geri McGilvray
       EVERYDAY SAFETY and
       WALKABILITY, Midtown, Palo Alto
       Sent from my iPhone

                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:17 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Stephanie Munoz <stephanie@dslextreme.com>
Sent:                         Thursday, August 16, 2018 7:59 PM
To:                           M. Gallagher
Cc:                           chuck jagoda; roberta.ahlquist@sjsu.edu; Ruth Chippendale; WILPF Peninsula Palo Alto;
                              Cherrill M. Spencer; Council, City; Wendy Peikes; Gloria Burd;
                              supervisor.simitian@bos.sccgov.org
Subject:                      Fwd: Palo Alto - Lytton Gardens obliterates FIVE downtown Handicap Parking Spaces



          I need to express my solidarity with all individuals and groups working for housing. I admit I
                                           was disappointed in the Palo Alto Forward 's endorsement of
the developers' plan for only somewhat lowered rents than market rate; I do share their prioritization
of
housing. For me, teachers are the guardians of civilization, Horatius at the Bridge. But it is also in
the
economic interest of their employers, the PAUSD aka us, to compensate them in housing if inflation
drives the price of housing out range of the salaries we are paying them, as it has at the present time,
and we have plenty of public land to offer desirable, stabilized affordable rent as part of their salary if
they wish. As we speak, Palo Alto has hired expensive consultants to dope out something ELSE,
other than teacher housing, for that land. Remember, this is where we came in. Palo Alto City
stepped in to buy part of Cubberly because PAUSD was foolishly selling off its irreplaceable, steadily
growing in value real estate. The same is true, on a smaller scale, of policemen and firemen, where
the public owns land connected with those functions that could house public servants.

What I wanted, and had previously asked for as a salvaged Maybell, was for the City Council to set
its sights on three times as many sro units of 200 square feet as were projected for 60- 600 square -
foot units--i.e.180 small units. When I talked to the developers, they revealed that they wanted 2,000
per apartment x60 (120,000) and $600. times 180 equals only $108,000. However, the City has the
power to allow additional floors, and count the FAR as only applying to the residential part. so that a
ground floor might have been added comprising La Comida, the Betty Wright Swim Center, the senior
YMCA , a small child care center, a small cafe, perhaps a library media annex, a jitney bus to run
everybody to transit, library, voting, shopping and volunteer work; there wold be no in-house parking
and residents would have to agree not to park on the public street. There would be basement
storage rented at the same rate per square foot as residential. All this would be rent
controlled. To winnow down the number of applicants, one could make the building no smoking. This
residence would have be exquisitely gardened and have a garden balcony, to accommodate the
Council's notion that Palo Alto is a superior town in every respect--
along those same lines, might I timidly remind whoever that the most genteel language we can use
might be helpful in persuading the Palo Alto City Council that homeless people are not low class?
In solidarity, Stephanie
From: "Roberta Ahlquist" <roberta.ahlquist@sjsu.edu>
To: "M. Gallagher" <writing2win@gmail.com>y
Cc: "WILPF Peninsula Palo Alto" <wilpf.peninsula.paloalto@gmail.com>, "chuck jagoda"
<chuckjagoda1@gmail.com>, "Ruth Chippendale" <grchippendale@yahoo.com>, "stephanie"
<stephanie@dslextreme.com>
Sent: Thursday, August 16, 2018 1:52:40 PM
Subject: Re: Palo Alto - Lytton Gardens obliterates FIVE downtown Handicap Parking Spaces
                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:17 AM

Thanks for this. PAF is NOT supportive of low-income
housing and need to be exposed as disingenuous.

On Thu, Aug 16, 2018 at 9:36 AM, M. Gallagher <writing2win@gmail.com> wrote:

Have folks read this article w/ comments from the publi

https://www.paloaltoonline.com/print/story/2018/06/01/citys-move-to-
require-fewer-parking-spaces-sparks-concerns

Mary Gallagher, B.S.
Content Strategist
650-683-7102


Copyright 2018


Security Alert Notice
The information contained in this e-mail is confidential information,
presumed to be virus free, and intended only for use by the individual or
entity named above. Virus protection is the responsibility of the recipient. If
the reader of this email is not the intended recipient, dissemination or
distribution is prohibited. If you have received this email in error, please
delete the material from your computer. Thank you.
On Thu, Aug 16, 2018 at 9:05 AM, WILPF Peninsula Palo Alto
<wilpf.peninsula.paloalto@gmail.com> wrote:

 Of interest to writing a letter/email on this?
 Forwarded by Judy A.

 On Wed, Aug 15, 2018 at 7:57 PM, D Martell <dmpaloalto@gmail.com> wrote:




                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:17 AM




  Joshuah Mello

  Chief Transportation Official

  Palo Alto's Transportation Division



  Mr. Mello:




  Don't ask me to do your job; you have the address.


  Handicapped must come first.
  This downtown Palo Alto property has, at minimum, a quasi-public nature given their Mission Statement and the Founding Documents
  for Lytton Gardens Senior Communities.

  -Danielle Martell
  dmPaloAlto@gmail.com




  From: Mello, Joshuah <Joshuah.Mello@cityofpaloalto.org>
  Date: Wed, Aug 15, 2018 at 4:38 PM
  Subject: RE: Lytton Gardens obliterates FIVE downtown Handicap Parking Spaces

  To: D Martell <dmpaloalto@gmail.com>




  Ms. Martell:



  Thank you for writing. Is this within the public right‐of‐way (on‐street parking) or in the private Lytton
  Gardens parking lot?



  Regards,




                                                                         3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:17 AM




                    JOSHUAH D. MELLO, AICP
                    Chief Transportation Official

                    OFFICE OF TRANSPORTATION

                    Joshuah.Mello@CityofPaloAlto.org

                    office: 650.329.2520
                    fax: 650.329.2154




  From: D Martell [mailto:dmpaloalto@gmail.com]


  Date: Mon, August 13, 2018 5:34 PM


  Subject: Lytton Gardens    obliterates FIVE downtown Handicap Parking Spaces




  cc: Lauing, Ed <evlauing@yahoo.com>; Council, City <city.council@cityofpaloalto.org>; Keene, James <James.Keene@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Stump, Molly
  <Molly.Stump@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Bill Johnson <BJohnson@paweekly.com>; Jay Thorwaldson <jaythor@well.com>; Dave Price <price@baydailypost.com>;
  Allison@padailypost.com; EmiBach@padailypost.com; Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com>



  To: Mello, Joshuah <Joshuah.Mello@CityofPaloAlto.org>




  Joshuah Mello

  Chief Transportation Official


                                                                              4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:17 AM
  Palo Alto's Transportation Division

  Dear Mr. Mello:

  Why has Palo Alto's downtown Lytton Gardens Senior Communities (LG), 656 Lytton Avenue, been
  allowed to obliterate five (5) Handicap Parking spaces in front of their entrance?



  This includes paved asphalt sans parking lines, and red curbs. For decades, PAPD ticketed autos without
  Handicap Plaques that parked in front of LG. --Two of the five former parking spots share a LG
  dumpster. Together, the site of all five former parking spaces resembles an expanding entryway for LG, and
  add greatly to the aesthetics of their building.



  Curious minds want to know why FIVE downtown Handicap Zones have "vanished like a fart on the
  breeze".

  Please respond.



  Sincerely,

  -Danielle Martell

  dmPaloAlto@gmail.com




                                                     5
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:34 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Sent:                           Sunday, August 19, 2018 4:09 PM
To:                             Loran Harding; dennisbalakian; David Balakian; Dan Richard; Doug Vagim;
                                esmeralda.soria@fresno.gov; paul.caprioglio; Mark Standriff; Mayor; beachrides;
                                bearwithme1016@att.net; Cathy Lewis; Council, City; huidentalsanmateo;
                                robert.andersen; blackstone@blastfitness.com; Leodies Buchanan; bballpod; Chris Field;
                                Daniel Zack; fmerlo@wildelectric.net; Raymond Rivas; hennessy; steve.hogg; Joel Stiner;
                                jerry ruopoli; kfsndesk; kwalsh@kmaxtv.com; kclark; leager; Tom Lang; Mark Kreutzer;
                                mthibodeaux@electriclaboratories.com; mmt4@pge.com; scott.mozier; nick yovino;
                                nchase@bayareanewsgroup.com; newsdesk; pavenjitdhillon@yahoo.com; popoff;
                                russ@topperjewelers.com; Steve Wayte; terry; Mark Waldrep; yicui@stanford.edu
Subject:                        Fwd: State Ins. Commissioner warns again re higher ins. costs from fires




---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Sun, Aug 19, 2018 at 3:16 PM
Subject: Fwd: State Ins. Commissioner warns again re higher ins. costs from fires
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>



---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Sun, Aug 19, 2018 at 3:06 PM
Subject: Fwd: State Ins. Commissioner warns again re higher ins. costs from fires
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>



---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Sun, Aug 19, 2018 at 2:45 PM
Subject: Fwd: State Ins. Commissioner warns again re higher ins. costs from fires
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>


        Sunday, Aug. 19, 2018

        To all-


      More information. KCBS this morning just after 11AM had a woman on from Cal-Fire. She said that we
no longer have a "fire season" in California and that it is now a year-round phenom. Warmer temperatures,
dryer conditions make for more wildfires and during more parts of the year. She is indicating that the people at
Cal-Fire, at least, now believe that the climate has changed, at least in California and other western states.

                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:34 AM
Climate change may be a hoax cooked up at Stanford, but something has changed to increase the frequency and
severity of wildfires, at least in the opinion and experience of Cal-Fire.

        She said that if you live in California, you are now subject to wildfires, and you should be prepared
to evacuate! Even if you live in an area which does not seem to put you at risk for wildfires, you are subject to
them now. She said that wildfires are ferocious and that the embers they produce can land a mile out in front of
the fire and start new fires.

      She also said that residents of Santa Rosa, Calif. never thought, in October, 2017, that a fire there would
jump Hwy. 101 and burn thousands of home, but it did.

       This may all be scare-talk by wild-eyed liberals from the Bay Area. You decide. If it is, people at Cal-
Fire should be disciplined for scare-mongering.

      She gave a website, once, and said it quickly, to help all residents of California prepare to evacuate
quickly.

       www.readyforwildfire.org.

      Thankfully, KCBS repeated it.

       When you get to that website, you have to scroll and click again. Cal-Fire should get the website right,
but I know they are pretty busy right now.

        If every home-owner in California now has a home in a fire-prone area, we are going to face escalating
homeowners' insurance premiums. Prop. 13 saved us from rampant, outrageous property tax gouging by school
districts and local governments, but who will save us from this?

        We may have to elect a President who has some concern for the suckers, the American people. The
current one has as his paramount goal the in-your-face screwing of 99% of the American people, all to enrich
his fellow one-percenters. $716 billion was just passed for the DOD in the coming year when half that would
deter and defeat any foe or combination of foes. It is more than the next 20 largest industrial nations put
together spend on defense. That makes sense since we provide a free military defense for the next 20 largest,
and richest, industrial nations. The United States pays 70% of the cost of NATO, by Trump's own recent public
complaint.

       Some of those wasted billions should be re-directed to controlling the severe wildfires in California and
other western states.

      There are things that could be done to address the now severe, year-round wildfires plaguing California
and other western states with their months long severe air pollution which Californians are forced to breath.
Forest management practices in California have been terrible, with even the smallest forest fire snuffed out
immediately. Before the modern era, moderate wildfires cleared out the fuel.

      One thinks of building fire breaks during the non-fire season, but the area covered by California's forests is
immense. I've suggested the simple expedient of cutting dead trees down, piling them up and soaking them with
retardant. I notice that fires sometimes jump from tree-top to tree-top. If trees are horizontal on the ground, and
have some retardant on them, how could that propagation take place? What if big firebreaks were created with
this technique, several miles wide, and in the non-fire season, if there still is such a thing. That would be
expensive, but we are spending huge money to fight wildfires in California now. We are told that embers can
                                                         2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:34 AM
travel large distances, so those could defeat big fire breaks in some cases, but such fire breaks might help limit
the spread of a wildfire.

      I think that extreme vigilance would help, and that means surveillance. I vaguely recall hearing recently
that satellites can see small wildfires. Maybe we need more satellites to do that. Look-out towers used to help
spot fires, but many of them are now gone. Maybe we build some again. Aircraft flying over forests could spot
fires when they are small. Perhaps we have to build up a real forest fire surveillance air force, armed with infra-
red equipment, to see fires before they get big.

      What if we put fire sensors in the forests and had them transmit to satellites any indication of a wildfire
getting started. That technology probably already exists. If it does not, it would be an easy task for Silicon
Valley to undertake. Then we install thousands of such sensors in our forests. Cameras, smoke detectors, heat
sensors, microphones, humidity and wind measurement equipment could all be included in such sensors. Maybe
they could be dropped from aircraft into the forests. Stealing or damaging one could be made a very serious
crime. The sensor itself could report any attempt to steal or disable it.

      The fire retardant drops by the DC-10 (s) and the 747 (s) do really work. I suggest we have five or ten
times the number of such craft that we have now in California. Expensive for sure, but we are going to need
them, and look what we spend now fighting the fires after they start and grow huge. Then pre-position a LOT of
fire retardant where these planes can re-fill. Designate more airports for them dwell in and fly from. Enact laws
that will allow State and federal officials to limit commercial air traffic, if need be, when these planes are called
into action. Rich Republicans who own the airlines won't like this at all, but these planes should have top
priority. We now have a public health crisis in California, with the residents here breathing dangerous wildfire
smoke for months and months on end every year. The wealthy owners of the TV stations in Fresno are having
their on-air people lie to minimize the health impacts. After I complained, they are reducing that, but Friday
night, one weather man here declared that "the sky is clear over Fresno. It's great to have Friday night football
back"! As he said this, the graphic by his shoulder said that the air was "hazy" that night. The people having
teens play football on such a night should be prosecuted and the station should lose its broadcast license.

     So there are a few suggestions I have, without really trying hard to develop solutions. But develop and
implement them we will, or the Central Valley of California will become unfit for human habitation.

      BTW, KCBS reported this AM that the "Ferguson fire" in Mariposa Co. in and near Yosemite is now fully
contained. It raged for over a month, burned 150 square miles of forest, and filled the Central Valley with
dangerous wildfire smoke for that entire time. And that is just ONE of the 18 or so serious wildfires that have
raged for over a month in California. The "Car fire" near Redding Calif. has been huge, destroyed over 1,000
homes, and is probably still burning. The "Mendocino Complex fire" in Lake and other counties has been the
biggest wildfire in California history. Home values, insurance premiums? They will go in opposite directions as
this continues. We need leadership in government to address this crisis. All I have seen so far is a little bit of
desultory hand-wringing.


       L. William Harding
       Fresno



---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>

                                                          3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:34 AM
Date: Tue, Aug 14, 2018 at 2:34 AM
Subject: Fwd: State Ins. Commissioner warns again re higher ins. costs from fires
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>, Doug Vagim <dvagim@gmail.com>, Dan Richard
<danrichard@mac.com>, Joel Stiner <jastiner@gmail.com>



---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Mon, Aug 13, 2018 at 11:43 AM
Subject: Fwd: State Ins. Commissioner warns again re higher ins. costs from fires
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>, Doug Vagim <dvagim@gmail.com>, dennisbalakian
<dennisbalakian@sbcglobal.net>, David Balakian <davidbalakian@sbcglobal.net>, Dan Richard
<danrichard@mac.com>, Joel Stiner <jastiner@gmail.com>



---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Mon, Aug 13, 2018 at 11:35 AM
Subject: Fwd: State Ins. Commissioner warns again re higher ins. costs from fires
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>



---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Mon, Aug 13, 2018 at 10:40 AM
Subject: State Ins. Commissioner warns again re higher ins. costs from fires
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>


      Here is a "good" review of the Calif. wildfires to date this year. October is the worst month.


     https://www.mercurynews.com/2018/07/10/why-california-fire-season-is-off-to-worst-start-in-10-years/

    I was looking for a map showing "fire prone areas" of Calif. to see who will get the huge premium hikes.
This does not show it.


      Mon. August 13, 2018



     To all- Mighty KCBS SF, broadcasting the truth into the Central Valley, reported this morning that the
Calif. State Insurance Commissioner warns again now the following:




                                                        4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:34 AM
        Ins. Cos. may stop offering fire insurance for homes in fire prone areas of Calif. If they do offer it, it
may cost more. They may cancel policies for homes in fire-prone areas. He said that this is not at a crisis level
yet, but could get there.

       https://www.thestate.com/news/business/article216586725.html

     I guess we have to nose around and see if our home(s) are in a fire prone area. If it is, you may be paying
more for coverage, if you can get it. Even if it is not, you may be paying more.

     I'd be surprised if this is reported on local TV in Fresno, since it could be bad for business.

      If Fresno City Hall plans to approve 50,000 new homes to the east getting near the trees, the homes may
be un-insurable. City officials had better warn their developer friends. It would be wrong to take their money if
the homes they approve are uninsurable and therefore un-salable.

     I won't spread this mail far and wide. We don't want to build in the expectation that we are all now ripe for
big ins. premium hikes.

     It would be interesting to see a map of Fresno County indicating where fire-prone areas are and to know
who drew up the map. That last one is always important.

     And notice that, regarding the ins. companies recovering the $12 billion they are laying out just in the wine
country to homeowners there, they can't recover that from the rest of us in one year. State law requires them to
screw the rest of us with higher premiums over several years. I wonder how the insurance industry convinced
people in Sacramento to make that the law.

       LH




                                                         5
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:18 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com>
Sent:                          Thursday, August 16, 2018 10:07 PM
To:                            dcbertini@menlopark.org; paloaltofreepress@gmail.com; Jonsen, Robert;
                               stevendlee@alumni.duke.edu; HRC; Keene, James; Council, City;
                               mdiaz@redwoodcity.org; council@redwoodcity.org; gkirby@redwoodcity.org;
                               jrosen@da.sccgov.org; wilpf.peninsula.paloalto@gmail.com;
                               stephanie@dslextreme.com; molly.o'neal@pdo.sccgov.org; chuckjagoda1@gmail.com;
                               Stump, Molly; ibain@redwoodcity.org; Binder, Andrew; swagstaffe@smcgov.org;
                               Perron, Zachary; Kilpatrick, Brad; Cullen, Charles; citycouncil@menlopark.org; Van Der
                               Zwaag, Minka; Constantino, Mary; michael.gennaco@oirgroup.com; Minor, Beth;
                               Carnahan, David; Tony Dixon; sscott@scscourt.org; rpichon@scscourt.org;
                               dryan@scscourt.org; bwalsh@scscourt.org; Lee, Craig; Kniss, Liz (internal); fred124c41
                               @gmail.com; Kan, Michael; roberta.ahlquist@sjsu.edu; court@courtskinner.com;
                               supervisor.simitian@bos.sccgov.org; assemblymember.berman@assembly.ca.gov;
                               allison@padailypost.com; cromero@cityofepa.org; emibach@padailypost.com;
                               apardini@cityofepa.org
Subject:                       Here's how California became the most secretive state on police misconduct




http://www.latimes.com/politics/la-me-california-police-discipline-secret-20180815-story.html


Here's how California became the most
secretive state on police misconduct
Liam Dillon




                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:18 AM




                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:18 AM
Former state Sen. Gloria Romero introduced a bill more than a decade ago that would have
allowed the public to access police discipline hearings and some records. It was defeated in
the face of fierce opposition from police unions. (Myung J. Chun / Los Angeles Times)

In the 1970s, Los Angeles police officers were furious that past complaints against them
increasingly were making their way into court cases.

So LAPD officials did something radical: They took more than four tons of personnel
records dating to the 1940s and shredded them.

That decision resulted in the dismissal of more than 100 criminal cases involving officers
accused of wrongdoing whose records had been purged, sparking public outrage.

The Legislature responded by passing a law that ensured officer discipline records would be
preserved — but also made it nearly impossible for anyone to learn about them. The action,
driven by police unions, began a decades-long process that has made California the strictest
state in the nation when it comes to protecting police confidentiality.

That could change in the next few weeks, with lawmakers in Sacramento considering a
landmark effort to increase disclosure.

Repeated efforts to open access to misconduct records have run into aggressive opposition
from the unions, one of the most powerful political forces in the Capitol and city halls
around the state. Lawmakers who championed transparency faced threats of union
opposition at election time.

Police unions repeatedly have argued that California’s confidentiality rules protect officer
safety and privacy — and prevent cops’ names from being dragged through the mud.

But this year, a group of California legislators is confronting police unions in ways once
unthinkable. They argue the organizations are out of touch with public sentiment over how
officers use force and interact with communities of color. The shift comes amid the
backdrop of the Black Lives Matter and criminal justice reform movements.

“It’s hard to build trust … when police keep secret how they respond to killing members of
the public and hide serious misconduct,” said Peter Bibring, director of police practices at
the American Civil Liberties Union of California.




                                                     3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:18 AM
The latest proposal to make some misconduct records public faces a key decision in the
Legislature this week. While passage is far from assured, some union leaders privately are
conceding that a measure of disclosure might be inevitable.

Robert Harris, a director for the union that represents rank-and-file LAPD officers, said
high-profile videos capturing police using force — and the protests that followed — have
put his side on the defensive.

“We’re kind of at the table trying to work with them, not because of the validity of their
arguments but because we’re watching this movement create some hostility in our
communities,” Harris said. “The profession of law enforcement is under siege.”




                                                     4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:18 AM




                                                     5
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:18 AM
(Los Angeles Times)

No other state has locked away citizen complaints and internal investigation files like
California.

Records of misconduct that results in suspensions and other significant discipline are public
in 21 states. Only California, Delaware and New York have specially enshrined
confidentiality laws that single out police disciplinary files. California is alone in denying
prosecutors direct access to the records.

A Times investigation found that past misconduct, whether alleged or proven, routinely is
kept hidden in court as a result of California’s police privacy laws.

The road to secrecy began in 1974, when the California Supreme Court ruled that defendants
had a right to know about complaints that had been lodged against officers testifying in their
cases. Defense attorneys started asking for information that might cast doubt on officers’
testimony.

It was during the barrage of requests that the LAPD destroyed complaints dating to 1949 that
hadn’t resulted in a finding of wrongdoing. The leader of the Peace Officers Research Assn.
of California, or PORAC — the state’s largest law enforcement labor organization —
complained that criminal defendants could now “embark on fishing expeditions into peace
officers’ personnel files.”




                                                     6
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:18 AM




                                                     7
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:18 AM
First-term Gov. Jerry Brown, left, appears with California Atty. Gen. Evelle Younger on
NBC's "Meet The Press" in 1978. Younger was the principal backer of the police
confidentiality bill that Brown signed into law the same year. (Associated Press)

In 1978, state Atty. Gen. Evelle Younger sponsored the legislation that required departments
to keep misconduct records but also expressly blocked public access and made it much more
difficult to view them in criminal court.

Under the bill, defendants would have to persuade a judge to examine an officer’s
confidential file, in private, and decide if there was relevant information to disclose.

The Legislature passed the measure unanimously, sending it to Gov. Jerry Brown, then in
his first term, who signed it.

Later that year, after Brown won reelection, his chief of staff credited law enforcement as
one of most significant endorsements that led to his victory.

After the law took effect, a slice of police misconduct records remained available to the
public.

In Los Angeles, Oakland, San Francisco and other major cities, civil service commissions or
police review boards considered officer discipline issues in open hearings. In 2006, the
California Supreme Court ruled that the confidentiality law also applied to those hearings.




                                                     8
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:18 AM




                                                     9
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:18 AM
As a state senator, Gloria Romero repeatedly tried to pass legislation to loosen restrictions
on police disciplinary records but was stymied by police unions. "It's a pack. Like wolves
coming at you," she said. (Myung J. Chun / Los Angeles Times)

That prompted Sen. Gloria Romero, a Democrat from Los Angeles, to introduce a bill to
reopen disciplinary hearings and make some police records directly available to the public.

Law enforcement unions fiercely opposed what they described in letters to lawmakers as an
attempt to undermine their “sacred” right to privacy.

John Stites, a union leader from Southern California, warned in an email to a lobbyist that if
the bill passed, police would try to defeat a ballot measure seeking to extend the time some
legislators could remain in office.

“There is no compromise on this. Ensure it be understood that this will only be the
beginning,” Stites wrote in the message, which quickly made its way to lawmakers.

At a hearing for Romero’s bill in the Assembly Public Safety Committee, law enforcement
officials filed into the committee room’s front rows — seats typically reserved for legislators
and their staffs. So many police officers and lobbyists stood to express their opposition that
the line extended out the door.

Ron Cottingham, then head of the law enforcement union PORAC, told the committee that
Romero’s proposal was “one of the most insidious and dangerous bills we’ve seen come
along in many years and maybe decades in Sacramento.”

The bill died without a vote.

The following year, Romero tried and failed again.

She said in a recent interview that the experience showed her why police unions are so
feared in the Capitol.

“It’s a pack. Like wolves coming at you,” Romero said. “Other [legislators] see it, and
you’re basically like meat thrown to the lions.”




                                                     10
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:18 AM




                                                     11
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:18 AM
Mark Leno, left, talks with Lou Correa at the Capitol when both men served in the state
Senate. Leno twice proposed police transparency bills that failed when police unions
opposed them. (Rich Pedroncelli / Associated Press)

Around the time of Romero’s first bill, Assemblyman Mark Leno (D-San Francisco)
introduced a similar proposal. It failed to win enough support to merit even a committee
vote.

A year later, in 2008, Leno was running for the state Senate when opponents set up a
political action committee called Protect Our Kids that ran ads attacking his votes to cut
education spending. San Francisco’s police union, which was critical of Leno’s unsuccessful
bill, was one of its top donors.

The lawmaker, who is openly gay, said he considered the committee’s name to be a clear
reference to homophobic stereotypes about gay men as child predators.

“That’s how they play,” Leno said. “You come after us, we’ll come after you.”

San Francisco police labor officials did not return calls for comment. At the time, a union
leader told reporters they were upset about Leno's votes on public safety and education
issues.

Leno won the election but waited until his final year in the Senate before introducing a new
police transparency bill in 2016.

The timing followed the rise of the Black Lives Matter movement and the 2014 killing of
Michael Brown, a black teenager shot by a white officer in Ferguson, Mo.

Even so, the bill quickly died in a Senate fiscal committee.

“It was just too hot,” Leno said.




                                                     12
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:18 AM




                                                     13
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:18 AM
State Sen. Holly J. Mitchell at the Ronald Reagan State Building in Los Angeles. Mitchell
told lobbyists for police unions this year that they were out of touch with public sentiment
about law enforcement. (Gary Coronado / Los Angeles Times)

Two years later, a hearing on the latest disclosure bill showed how far the tone surrounding
police issues has changed in the Capitol.

Sen. Holly J. Mitchell (D-Los Angeles) told union lobbyists in April that they were out of
touch with how communities perceived officers. No longer, she said, would the unions
always get their way.

“Those days are over,” Mitchell said.

Her warning came less than a month after protests erupted near the Capitol in the wake of
the fatal shooting of Stephon Clark, an unarmed black man, by Sacramento police.

Senate Bill 1421 would open records from investigations of officer shootings and other
major force incidents, along with confirmed cases of sexual assault and lying while on duty.
The bill must clear an Assembly fiscal committee this week en route to passage in the
Legislature by the end of August, when lawmakers break for the year.

Its author, Sen. Nancy Skinner (D-Berkeley), has argued lawmakers must heed calls from
black and Latino residents who want to know what happens to officers they accuse of
misbehavior.

Police unions complain the measure would increase government costs and prompt a flood of
court filings by inmates seeking release once a law enforcement witness’ past dishonesty is
revealed. Knowing internal investigations will be disclosed, they say, also could lead some
officers to hesitate during violent confrontations, endangering their lives.

“It has unintended consequences that are extreme and will hurt the public,” Ed Fishman, an
attorney with PORAC, said at the April hearing.

Unlike in years past, the unions say they’re willing to negotiate.

Brian Marvel, current president of PORAC, said he could see the state’s rules changing in
cases in which officers were found to have committed serious misconduct. “I’m not opposed
to opening records,” he said.

As public scrutiny of police conduct has increased, unions also have experienced setbacks at
the ballot box. In recent years, statewide voters approved several justice reform measures
                                                     14
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:18 AM
despite law enforcement opposition, including initiatives to unwind the state’s strict three-
strikes sentencing law and reduce punishments for low-level thefts and drug offenses.

Still, the law enforcement lobby remains highly influential and the bill’s future uncertain.

Endorsements from police groups still are highly coveted by lawmakers fearful of opponents
labeling them as soft on crime. Over the last decade, those unions have contributed more
than $145 million to statewide ballot measures as well as legislative, gubernatorial and other
statewide races, according to a Times analysis of campaign finance data. They’ve spent an
additional $18 million on lobbying and other efforts to influence policy at the Capitol.

Assemblywoman Lorena Gonzalez Fletcher (D-San Diego), who worked closely with police
unions as a labor leader before being elected in 2013, heads the fiscal committee that will
consider the bill this week.

Gonzalez Fletcher said she strongly supports protecting officers’ privacy. But she agrees that
the conversation surrounding policing issues has changed.

In her district, which encompasses southern San Diego and stretches to the Mexican border,
she’s noticed more complaints from Latino residents that police are treating them unfairly.

“Transparency is necessary,” Gonzalez Fletcher said. “We have to do something in order for
communities like mine to gain trust in police again.”

Times staff writers Ben Poston, Mini Racker, Maloy Moore and Jack Leonard contributed to
this report.




                                                     15
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:18 AM




                                                     16
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:18 AM
Liam Dillon covers California state politics and policy for the Los Angeles Times and is
based in Sacramento. Prior to joining The Times in 2016, Dillon covered local politics in
San Diego and Southwest Florida.

Please enable JavaScript to view the &amp;lt;a
href="http://solidopinion.com/"&amp;gt;comments powered by
SolidOpinion.&amp;lt;/a&amp;gt;

   




                                                     17
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:18 AM




   


                                                     18
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:18 AM




   


                                                     19
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:18 AM
   




                                                     20
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:18 AM
   




                                                     21
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:18 AM
   




                                                     22
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:18 AM



Sent from my iPhone




                                                     23
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:17 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                            mark weiss <earwopa@yahoo.com>
Sent:                            Thursday, August 16, 2018 5:11 PM
To:                              Council, City
Cc:                              tomforcouncil@gmail.com; cory@corywolbach.com
Subject:                         Limits on driver services


Hey I think we need to cap And limit The number of drivers who are permitted to operate and pick up passengers in our
city limits. They are a menace they drive like idiots in my neighborhood they routinely run stop signs. Mark weiss
downtown North other cities have done this. Our civilization is at stake.

Sent from my iPhone




                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/21/2018 2:29 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                               veronica <mary_etriggs@yahoo.com>
Sent:                               Tuesday, August 21, 2018 12:28 PM
To:                                 Council, City
Subject:                            Loud noises from city repairs


I do not know to whom sent these complains so I sent to the City Council

Since last 30 days the city has engaged to perform some repair jobs during the middle of the night, sometime in July
they performed a job in the middle of the night for about 4 hours in Middlefield with Loma Verde, producing laud noises
and flash light , again, last night in Loma Verde AVE close to Middlefield they have some kind the job with a heavy
machineries broking the concrete and generating very laud noises, this happened from 11:00 PM to 4:30 AM.
I understand that some time are emergencies that require repair, but also the people in charge should considerer how
and when those repairs should be done with a minimum disturbing to the citizens.
I truly believe the quality of life in Palo Alto is deteriorating .I live in this city since 1969 and I can see the respond from
the Police to the management it have a lot to said .
.


Sent from Mail for Windows 10




                                                               1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/21/2018 2:35 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Tuesday, August 21, 2018 12:26 AM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        Meeting on Cubberley - October




       Hi Folks:

       Inspired by Chuck’s post here is what I just posted: aram

       First things first: We need to file a public records act request with the city and school district to
       determine how much the consulting firm, Concordia, is being paid. Second how did communities
       of color and the poor post -Katrina
       feel about their inclusion or exclusion from the Unified New Orleans Plan? Will Concordia
       recruit community fellows from the marginalized, underserved and unhoused members of the
       Palo Alto community? Or in the alternative, will the fellows recruited have to rank high on their
       willingness to be manipulated by Concordia, the city and the school district ? Will the Brown
       Act apply to the meetings, so that all members of the public who wish to speak, have an absolute
       right to do so? I’m hopeful a reasonable percentage of the 35 acres will be permanently dedicated
       to housing the formerly unhoused. In order to have any chance of making this happen advocates
       for the unhoused and marginalized members of the community, and their supporters, will have to
       be well organized, pack the meetings, and be fully informed on the all relevant issues, including
       zoning laws. In fact, the community may need to raise funds for an attorney who knows this area
       of the law and can assist us in winning a fair shares of the 35 acres for those normally excluded
       from the city’s vision.

       Aram

       On Aug 20, 2018, at 9:03 PM, chuck jagoda <chuckjagoda1@gmail.com> wrote:

              Thanks for the reminder. I'll watch.

              Here's what I commented to the Weekly on the article whose link you sent.

              C

              Posted by cdogz
              a resident of Ventura
              0 hours ago



              Cubberley Campus is a commons-- something owned by all. It was been sanitized so
              that only people who aren't homeless or who don't look homeless can use it. It is a
              great resource for all. Small interest groups can exist there whereas they could never
              afford local commercial rents. In 2013, Palo Alto let Jim Keene lead the expulsion of

                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/21/2018 2:35 PM
              poor and unhoused folks who camped there on the ground and in vehicles and
              contributed to the community. It is time for the common resource to be available to
              all, not just the whiter, wealthier members of the community who one day may not be
              so wealthy and will appreciate the option to use this common resource.




                       Virus-free. www.avast.com


              On Mon, Aug 20, 2018 at 5:26 PM, WILPF Peninsula Palo Alto
              <wilpf.peninsula.paloalto@gmail.com> wrote:
               Please watch for dates so you can attend (:

               https://www.paloaltoonline.com/news/2018/08/18/first-community-meeting-on-
               cubberley-set-for-october




              --
              Chuck




                                                       2
                                                                               Please Contact the Clerk’s Office
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:23 AM                        to View Additional Pages,
                                                                               Attachments, or Images Related
Carnahan, David                                                                        to this Document


From:                          Liza
Sent:                          Saturday, August 18, 2018 1:36 PM
To:                            Council, City
Subject:                       Message from the Rail Committee Home Page



Dear members of the Palo Alto Rail Committee,

My name is Liza             I am a junior at Gunn HIgh School and a reporter for the Oracle, Gunn High
School's student newspaper. For our next issue, we will be covering Palo Alto's plans regarding CalTrain grade
separation. I would be happy to be able to speak on the phone with one of you sometime in the coming week. I
will be available throughout this weekend as well as on week days after 4pm. Would any of you be available to
speak with me? Please let me know what times work best for you. In addition, is there anyone else you would
recommend that I speak to regarding this topic?

Thank you for your help. I am looking forward to speaking with you.
Best regards,
Liza




                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:17 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                             davherzl@sbcglobal.net
Sent:                             Sunday, August 19, 2018 7:26 PM
To:                               Council, City
Subject:                          Message from the Rail Committee Home Page


There is a post in Nextdoor.

'Train on wall' versus 'Train in shallow trench' option for Charleston and Meadow train
intersections - Palo Alto City Rail Committee meeting notes

This is what was presented in the past.




The posting provided the good and bad of each option.

Overwhelmingly the community does not want a raised tracks between Charleston and Eastmeadow.

The community wants Rail under Road as first option and Hybrid Road over Rail – Basically some form of a trench or
tunnel.

Can you please survey the community and represent what we would like.


                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:17 AM
Thanks

David Herzl
4135 Park Blvd.
Palo Alto, CA 94306




                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/23/2018 7:44 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           cindy goral <cindy@goral.org>
Sent:                           Wednesday, August 22, 2018 1:27 AM
To:                             board@pausd.org; Council, City
Subject:                        MOU between PAPD and PAUSD



Dear Honorable Council Members and School Board Members,

In tonight's school board meeting, there was a discussion about the revised MOU between the PAPD and
PAUSD, which was passed by the City Council on August 13, 2018 before having been reviewed by the School
Board.

While the primary purpose of the revised MOU was to add section M. in Exhibit A to address requirements of
the Resolution Agreement between OCR and PAUSD, there were additional sections added to Exhibit A
unrelated to this issue. In particular, Section I is entitled "Protocols for Involuntary Psychiatric Hold" and
Section J states "Use of Mechanical Restraints During Transport."

Section J states: "As required by PAPD policy, the SRO or responding officer shall use mechanical
restraints on a student being transported to a medical facility, but the SRO or the responding officer will make
an effort, when possible, to do so out of view of other students...."

Ms. Baten Caswell asked whether restraint was a requirement and what does a mechanical restraint mean? The
police officer who was in attendance at the meeting stated per PAPD policy, it is a requirement and it means
handcuffs.

In looking at the PAPD policy dated March 2017, which I believe is the most recent policy, it states in section
418.5 "When transporting any individual for a 5150 commitment...officers may transport individuals in a patrol
unit and shall secure them in accordance with the Handcuffing and Restraints Policy."

The Handcuffing and Restraints Policy 306 states
306.2 states: “When deciding whether to use any restraint, officers should carefully balance officer safety
concerns with factors that include, but are not limited to:
- The circumstances or crime leading to the arrest
- The demeanor and behavior of the arrested person
- The age and health of the person
- Whether the person is known to be pregnant
- Whether the person has a hearing or speaking disability. In such cases, consideration should be given, safety
permitting, to handcuffing to the front in order to allow the person to sign or write notes
- Whether the person has any other apparent disability”

306.3.3 states: "A juvenile under 14 years of age should not be restrained unless he/she is suspected of a
dangerous felony or when the officer has a reasonable suspicion that the juvenile may resist, attempt escape,
injure him/herself, injure the officer or damage property"

306.4 states: "Handcuffs, including temporary nylon or plastic cuffs, may be used only to restrain a person's
hands to ensure officer safety. Although recommended for most arrest situations, handcuffing is
discretionary and not an absolute requirement of the Department. Officers should consider handcuffing
                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/23/2018 7:44 AM
any person they reasonably believe warrants that degree of restraint. However, officers should not conclude
that in order to avoid risk every person should be handcuffed, regardless of the circumstances."

PAPD policy clearly states that use of handcuffs is not an absolute requirement, contrary to what was reported
this evening.

In addition, the definition of a mechanical restraint goes beyond handcuffs and is "Any restrictive device (e.g.,
seatbelt, straitjacket, vest, or physical confinement) used to restrict a person's free movement, most commonly
in emergency situations." Other devices described in the PAPD policy under restraints are 306.5 Spit Hoods,
306.6 auxillary restraint devices such as chains and belts, and 306.7 leg restraints. If the intent is handcuffs, say
handcuffs.

Using a mechanical restraint of any kind on someone with a mental health issue is demeaning. It should only be
done when absolutely necessary if there is risk of injury to the student or officer. Stating in the MOU that
transporting a student on a 5150 requires a mechanical restraint 100% of the time is not in line with the current
PAPD Handcuffing and Restraints Policy. Section J of the MOU should not be adopted as
written. Furthermore, I urge Council Members and PAUSD staff to include mental health experts for guidance
and review when writing policies around psychiatric issues in the future.

Respectfully,

Cindy Goral




                                                          2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:31 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                 Neilson Buchanan <cnsbuchanan@yahoo.com>
Sent:                                 Sunday, August 19, 2018 8:39 AM
To:                                   Council, City
Subject:                              News posted Aug 15 on city website




I support the City Auditor's effort to improve the sample size but this raises new and old issues. The serial reporting of
citizen opinions is very important.

1. The survey data will be collected over an extended time frame in 2018 reflecting respondents completing
questionnaires with different sets of information. For example, the recent publicity from the Mayor's traffic remarks and
retraction creates a bias in the questionnaire returns. One way to manage this differential is to compare results from the
two mailings. The Survey company can be asked to render a professional opinion about samples and result bias.
2. It would be helpful for the public to understand how much lower Palo Alto response rate is.
3.. I repeat my ongoing plea to Council and City Manager that survey results are very important feedback to both citizens,
city staff and Council. Withholding survey results for such an extended period of time delays formulation of improved city
process, budgets and staffing to address embedded problems consistently identified by the annual survey.
4. Council has opportunity to evaluate the need for survey comparisons with other cities operating in very different
environments. This feature of the survey slows down reporting of results available to the Council and citizens.
5. The built-in time gap between compilation and release of survey results is counter to modern quality assurance.

Thank you. I look forward to January 2019.

Neilson Buchanan

---------excerpt from city website-------

The City of Palo Alto is upping the number of residents receiving this year’s National Citizen Survey by 1,500 in an effort
to increase participation rates, which have been dropping in recent years. While only 21 percent responded to the City’s
survey last year, lower response rates to surveys is a trend nationally. City officials are hoping that increasing the total
number of residents receiving the survey will increase the overall pool of respondents. The surveys were sent out starting
last week to a total of 4,500 randomly selected Palo Alto households. This year, survey responses must be postmarked
and returned by September 21 to be included in the final results.

City of Palo Alto, CA - News Details




    City of Palo Alto, CA - News Details



                                                              1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:31 AM



Neilson Buchanan
155 Bryant Street
Palo Alto, CA 94301

650 329-0484
650 537-9611 cell
cnsbuchanan@yahoo.com




                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:17 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Tony Ciampi <T.Ciampi@hotmail.com>
Sent:                           Thursday, August 16, 2018 9:32 PM
To:                             Keene, James; Binder, Andrew; Council, City; HRC; Stump, Molly; Shikada, Ed
Cc:                             kamala_harris@harris.senate.gov; Nathan_Barankin@harris.senate.gov;
                                Marguerite_Biagi@harris.senate.gov; Clint_Odom@harris.senate.gov;
                                Lily_Adams@harris.senate.gov; dustin.brandenburg@mail.house.gov;
                                katie.weiss@mail.house.gov; liz.argo@mail.house.gov;
                                Anthony.Ratekin@mail.house.gov; Jilian.Plank@mail.house.gov;
                                kelsey.smith@mail.house.gov; christopher.livingston@mail.house.gov;
                                alexandra.gourdikian@mail.house.gov; Philip_Maxson@mcconnell.senate.gov;
                                asoltani@aclunc.org; btucker@aclunc.org; organizing@aclunc.org;
                                aschlosser@aclunc.org; mrisher@aclunc.org; info@sanjosenaacp.org;
                                naacpsfbr@att.net; actso@naacpnet.org; hollywoodbureau@naacpnet.org;
                                info@lccr.com; info@anamericaninjustice.com; bharat_ramamurti@warren.senate.gov;
                                elizabeth_warren@warren.senate.gov; Dan_Geldon@warren.senate.gov;
                                Stephanie_Akpa@warren.senate.gov; blanca.jimenez@mail.house.gov;
                                rykia.dorsey@mail.house.gov; scheduling49@mail.house.gov
Subject:                        No Video?



James Keene
Palo Alto City Manager:


Mr. Keene,



  How many days does it take to tell me whether or not Ofc. Conde recorded the incident?



  Based upon Captain Binder’s initial response and now subsequent failure to respond I have to conclude that
your police command staff is covering up Ofc. Conde’s violation of the Constitution the same way they covered
up the violations committed against Tajae Murray.



One thing is not disputed and that is Ofc. Conde turned on the lights of his patrol car to pull me over. Turning
on the lights of the patrol car turns on the camera system.




                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:17 AM




Thus if there is no recording than your officers are lying just like in the Murray case.



https://chiefburns.weebly.com/murray-dog-attack.html




                                                         2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:17 AM




                                                                                                                                                        Murray Dog Attack - Palo Alto Police
     Right-click here to download pictures. To help protect y our priv acy , Outlook prev ented automatic download of this picture from the Internet.




                                                                                                                                                        Chief Dennis Burns ...
                                                                                                                                                        chiefburns.weebly.com

                                                                                                                                                        Just like the Tyler Harney case the City of Palo and the Palo
                                                                                                                                                        Alto Police settles another excessive use of force law suit
                                                                                                                                                        before the Plaintiff, in this case Tajae Murray could obtain
                                                                                                                                                        the evidence as to why there is no recording of the Dog
                                                                                                                                                        Jumping Out of the Patrol Car.




obtain the evidence as to why there is no recording of the Dog Jumping Out of the Patrol Car.




And of course there is the feature called : "Record After the Fact"

that ensures all encounters are recorded.

https://corruptpaloaltopolice.weebly.com/systemic-flaws.html



https://watchguardvideo.com/software/record-after-the-fact




                                                                                                                                                                      3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:17 AM




https://www.scpr.org/news/2013/06/28/37967/doj-deputies-at-la-county-sheriff-s-stations-in-la/




https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/news/displaynews.asp?NewsID=4079
                                                      4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:17 AM




‘Coffee with the Captain’ recap

by M. Dilworth • April 12, 2012

“If you don’t feel you are being treated with respect or there is a lack of professionalism, those are the things I
want to know about,” he said. “Those are the things we can change… we can hold our own accountable and
we have been doing that quite a bit over the past 12 months.”
Jonsen said the Lancaster Station had met with the Justice Department as part of the federal investigation
into alleged discriminatory policing by law enforcement in the Antelope Valley. He said the Justice
Department gave him some feedback, which he took to heart.
“The feedback was that we need to be more engaged in the community, because there’s a perception out there
that we’re not connected…” Jonsen. “I agree there’s room for improvement, there always is, and that’s what
we’re trying to do.”
Jonsen said respect is a two‐way street, and the community had to do its part in giving deputies the necessary
respect as well. He said there was a misperception that Lancaster deputies routinely used excessive force when,
in reality, the station used the least amount of force in the region.


http://theavtimes.com/2012/04/12/coffee-with-the-captain-recap/




Police body cams are scarily easy to hack into and manipulate, researcher finds
Luke Dormehl
Digital Trends•August 15, 2018

Nuix cybersecurity expert Josh Mitchell demonstrated how it is possible to manipulate footage from police
body cams. Mitchell’s demo used five different cameras — including Vievu, Patrol Eyes, Fire Cam, Digital Ally
and CeeSc — and showcased how these could be hacked into and potentially altered. This could include
deleting or altering footage or amending crucial metadata, including where and when footage was shot.

https://www.yahoo.com/news/police‐body‐cams‐scarily‐easy‐212958177.html




                                                         5
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:17 AM




                                                                                                                                                       Police body cams are scarily easy to hack
    Right-click here to download pictures. To help protect y our priv acy , Outlook prev ented automatic download of this picture from the Internet.




                                                                                                                                                       into and manipulate, researcher finds
                                                                                                                                                       www.yahoo.com

                                                                                                                                                       Nuix cybersecurity expert Josh Mitchell has demonstrated
                                                                                                                                                       how it is possible to hack into and potentially manipulate
                                                                                                                                                       footage from police body cams. The really scary part? It's
                                                                                                                                                       shockingly easy.



https://www.yahoo.com/news/police‐body‐cams‐scarily‐easy‐212958177.html




Tony Ciampi




                                                                                                                                                                     6
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/23/2018 7:44 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Virginia Smedberg <virgviolin@hotmail.com>
Sent:                           Wednesday, August 22, 2018 2:49 AM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        our water, the Bay and the Delta



Dear Council Members,

I am writing to thank you for voting to endorse the Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan. I think it's really
important for us to keep looking at the big picture of California's, and especially the Delta and Bay's, water
ecosystem.

Sincerely,
Virginia Smedberg
Palo Alto




                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 4:39 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                                         D Martell <dmpaloalto@gmail.com>
Sent:                                         Thursday, August 16, 2018 4:14 PM
To:                                           roberta.ahlquist@sjsu.edu
Cc:                                           Mello, Joshuah; Lauing, Ed; Stump, Molly; Council, City; Kniss, Liz (internal); Scharff,
                                              Gregory (internal); Keene, James; Minor, Beth; Kleinberg, Judy; Bill Johnson; Jay
                                              Thorwaldson; Dave Price; Allison@padailypost.com; EmiBach@padailypost.com; Jason
                                              Green; AnnaEshoo@mail.house.gov; Anne.Ream@mail.house.gov;
                                              Senator.Hill@senate.ca.gov; Alex Kobayashi; Supervisor.Simitian@bos.sccgov.org;
                                              Micaela.Hellman-Tincher@bos.sccgov.org; VHS101@yahoo.com;
                                              WILPF.peninsula.paloalto@gmail.com; richard@alexanderlaw.com; Aram James;
                                              Andrew Pierce; Debra@firstpaloalto.com; Bear.ride@fprespa.org;
                                              CHamilton@da.sccgov.org; JRosen@dao.sccgov.org; Goodell, Erin; Jonsen, Robert
Subject:                                      Palo Alto - Lytton Gardens obliterates FIVE downtown Handicap Parking Spaces




Professor Roberta Ahlquist
WILPF
Low-Income Housing Committee

Dear Professor Ahlquist:

Thank you for speaking out for Palo Alto City Government accountability and transparency.

I believe City of Palo Alto's Chief Transportation Official Joshuah Mello should be admonished for his poor
stewardship over public need.

As a quasi-public facility supported by HUD funding, Lyttons Garden Senior Communities is a type of
corporation in the private sector that is backed by a branch of government that has a public mandate to provide
for the needs of the public.

Respectfully,
-Danielle
---------------------------
Danielle Martell
dmPaloAlto@gmail.com


---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Roberta Ahlquist <roberta.ahlquist@sjsu.edu>
Date: Thu, Aug 16, 2018 at 1:34 PM
Subject: 5 Handicapped parking spaces
To: Joshuah.Mello@cityofpaloalto.org




Dear Mr. Mello,

                                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 4:39 PM
I would like an explanation for why these five spots have been removed: 1. Under what
guidelines, 2. Who made this decision? 3. Why?

Sincerely,

Roberta Ahlquist
for the WILPF Low-Income Housing Committee




From: D Martell <dmpaloalto@gmail.com>
Date: Wed, Aug 15, 2018 at 7:57 PM
Subject: Palo Alto - Lytton Gardens obliterates FIVE downtown Handicap Parking Spaces
To: Joshuah.Mello@cityofpaloalto.org
Cc: Ed <evlauing@yahoo.com>, Molly <Molly.Stump@cityofpaloalto.org>, City <city.council@cityofpaloalto.org>, "Kniss, Liz (internal)" <liz.kniss@cityofpaloalto.org>,
"Scharff, Gregory (internal)" <greg.scharff@cityofpaloalto.org>, James <James.Keene@cityofpaloalto.org>, "Minor, Beth" <beth.minor@cityofpaloalto.org>, "Kleinberg, Judy"
<Judy@paloaltochamber.com>, Bill Johnson <BJohnson@paweekly.com>, Jay Thorwaldson <jaythor@well.com>, Dave Price <price@baydailypost.com>,
Allison@padailypost.com, EmiBach@padailypost.com, Jason Green <jgreen@dailynewsgroup.com>, AnnaEshoo@mail.house.gov, Anne.Ream@mail.house.gov,
Senator.Hill@senate.ca.gov, Alex Kobayashi <Alex.Kobayashi@sen.ca.gov>, Supervisor.Simitian@bos.sccgov.org, Micaela.Hellman-Tincher@bos.sccgov.org,
VHS101@yahoo.com, WILPF.peninsula.paloalto@gmail.com, richard@alexanderlaw.com, Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com>, Andrew Pierce <apierce@pierceshearer.com>,
Debra@firstpaloalto.com, Bear.ride@fprespa.org, CHamilton@da.sccgov.org, JRosen@dao.sccgov.org, Erin.Goodell@cityofpaloalto.org




Joshuah Mello

Chief Transportation Official

Palo Alto's Transportation Division

Mr. Mello:



Don't ask me to do your job; you have the address.

Handicapped must come first.
This downtown Palo Alto property has, at minimum, a quasi-public nature given their Mission Statement and the Founding Documents for
Lytton Gardens Senior Communities.

-Danielle Martell
dmPaloAlto@gmail.com




From: Mello, Joshuah <Joshuah.Mello@cityofpaloalto.org>
Date: Wed, Aug 15, 2018 at 4:38 PM
Subject: RE: Lytton Gardens obliterates FIVE downtown Handicap Parking Spaces
To: D Martell <dmpaloalto@gmail.com>




Ms. Martell:

                                                                                    2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 4:39 PM



Thank you for writing. Is this within the public right‐of‐way (on‐street parking) or in the private Lytton Gardens
parking lot?



Regards,




                  JOSHUAH D. MELLO, AICP
                  Chief Transportation Official

                  OFFICE OF TRANSPORTATION

                  Joshuah.Mello@CityofPaloAlto.org

                  office: 650.329.2520
                  fax: 650.329.2154




From: D Martell [mailto:dmpaloalto@gmail.com]


Date: Mon, August 13, 2018 5:34 PM


Subject: Lytton Gardens    obliterates FIVE downtown Handicap Parking Spaces




cc: Lauing, Ed <evlauing@yahoo.com>; Council, City <city.council@cityofpaloalto.org>; Keene, James <James.Keene@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Stump, Molly
<Molly.Stump@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Bill Johnson <BJohnson@paweekly.com>; Jay Thorwaldson <jaythor@well.com>; Dave Price <price@baydailypost.com>;
Allison@padailypost.com; EmiBach@padailypost.com; Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com>



To: Mello, Joshuah <Joshuah.Mello@CityofPaloAlto.org>




                                                                                3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 4:39 PM

Joshuah Mello

Chief Transportation Official

Palo Alto's Transportation Division

Dear Mr. Mello:

Why has Palo Alto's downtown Lytton Gardens Senior Communities (LG), 656 Lytton Avenue, been allowed to
obliterate five (5) Handicap Parking spaces in front of their entrance?



This includes paved asphalt sans parking lines, and red curbs. For decades, PAPD ticketed autos without
Handicap Plaques that parked in front of LG. --Two of the five former parking spots share a LG
dumpster. Together, the site of all five former parking spaces resembles an expanding entryway for LG, and
add greatly to the aesthetics of their building.



Curious minds want to know why FIVE downtown Handicap Zones have "vanished like a fart on the breeze".

Please respond.



Sincerely,

-Danielle Martell

dmPaloAlto@gmail.com




                                                      4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 7:49 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           D Martell <dmpaloalto@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Wednesday, August 15, 2018 7:16 PM
To:                             Michael Hawkins
Cc:                             Martineau, Catherine; Maika Horjus, Canopy; Passmore, Walter; Stump, Molly; Council,
                                City; Kniss, Liz (internal); Scharff, Gregory (internal); Keene, James; Kleinberg, Judy; Bill
                                Johnson; Jay Thorwaldson; Dave Price; Allison@padailypost.com;
                                EmiBach@padailypost.com; Aram James; Jason Green; John Fredrich; Chris Payne;
                                AlfredMan@aol.com; daniel kottke
Subject:                        Palo Alto's beautiful old-growth trees keep disappearing ...




Michael Hawkins, Program Director
Palo Alto Canopy

Dear Michael:

I appreciate your shared concern for tree preservation.

Attached find Screen Shots of this week's NEXTDOOR neighborhood online dialogue showing Palo Alto trees
continue to "vanish like a fart in the breeze". --Residents are alarmed.

Why are there no posted City Notices warning the public of this ongoing slaughter?

Best,
-Danielle
-------------------------
Danielle Martell
dmPaloAlto@gmail.com




                                                           1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 7:49 AM




                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 7:49 AM




                                                     3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/21/2018 5:17 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Tuesday, August 21, 2018 4:00 PM
To:                             cromero@cityofepa.org
Cc:                             lgauthier@cityofepa.org; lmoody@cityofepa.org; epatoday@epatoday.org;
                                sdremann@paweekly.com; drutherford@cityofepa.org; rabrica@cityofepa.org;
                                paloaltofreepress@gmail.com; dprice@padailypost.com; allison@padailypost.com;
                                emibach@padailypost.com; jgreen@dailynewsgroup.com; Jonsen, Robert;
                                roberta.ahlquist@sjsu.edu; chuckjagoda1@gmail.com; gkirby@redwoodcity.org;
                                Council, City; mdiaz@redwoodcity.org; michael.gennaco@oirgroup.com;
                                ibain@redwoodcity.org; dcbertini@menlopark.org; apardini@cityofepa.org; Binder,
                                Andrew; wilpf.peninsula.paloalto@gmail.com; Keene, James; Tony Dixon; Carnahan,
                                David; jrosen@da.sccgov.org; molly.o'neal@pdo.sccgov.org; Stump, Molly
Subject:                        PERF (Police Executive Research Forum) & COPS (Community Oriented Police Services)
                                : Implementing a Body-Worn Camera Program-Recommendations and Lessons
                                learned......92 page article



August 21, 2018


Dear City Councilmen Carlos Romero:


It was good meeting you, however brief, at the East Palo Alto City Council meeting on August 8, 2018.


My apologies for being so slow in sending out this article to you, re body-worn camera implementation, and
related policy considerations.


As I mentioned at the council meeting, former East Palo Alto Police Chief Ron Davis- played a significant part
in making this article happen. Here is his letter at P-9-10 of the article:


Letter from the COPS Office Director

Dear Colleagues,

One of the most important issues currently facing law enforcement is how to leverage new technology to
improve policing services. Whether using social media to engage the community, deploying new surveillance
tools to identify suspects, or using data analysis to predict future crime, police agencies around the world are
implementing new technology at an unprecedented pace.
Body-worn cameras, which an increasing number of law enforcement agencies are adopting, represent one new
form of technology that is significantly affecting the field of policing. Law enforcement agencies are using body-
worn cameras in various ways: to improve evidence collection, to strengthen officer performance and
accountability, to enhance agency transparency, to document encounters between police and the public, and to
investigate and resolve complaints and officer- involved incidents.

                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/21/2018 5:17 PM
Although body-worn cameras can offer many benefits, they also raise serious questions about how technology is
changing the relationship between police and the community. Body-worn cameras not only create concerns
about the public’s privacy rights but also can affect how officers relate to people in the community, the
community’s perception of the police, and expectations about how police agencies should share information
with the public. Before agencies invest considerable time and money to deploy body-worn cameras, they must
consider these and other important questions.
The COPS Office was pleased to partner with the Police Executive Research Forum (PERF) to support an
extensive research project that explored the numerous policy and implementation questions surrounding body-
worn cameras. In September 2013, the COPS Office and PERF hosted a conference in Washington, D.C., where
more than 200 law enforcement officials, scholars, representatives from federal agencies, and other experts
gathered to share their experiences with body-worn cameras. The discussions from this conference, along with
interviews with more than 40 police executives and a review of existing body-worn camera policies, culminated
in the recommendations set forth in this publication.
Implementing a Body-Worn Camera Program: Recommendations and Lessons Learned offers practical
guidance as well as a comprehensive look at the issues that body-worn cameras raise. I hope you find that the
wide range of perspectives, approaches, and strategies presented in this publication
are useful, whether you are developing your own body-worn camera program or simply wish to learn more
about the topic. The goal of the COPS Office and PERF is to ensure that law enforcement agencies have the
best information possible as they explore this new technology; therefore,
we encourage you to share this publication, as well as your own experiences, with other law enforcement
practitioners.
Sincerely,

Ronald L. Davis, Director
Office of Community Oriented Policing Services

 Aram James’ e-mail continues


I hope you and your fellow council members have the opportunity to thoroughly review the PERF/COPS report,
before finally deciding which are the best practices/policies, that should apply to body- worn camera use, in
East Palo Alto.


As an example: at the council meeting of August 8, we discussed whether police officers should be allowed to
review their body-worn camera footage, before writing their police reports.


Although a majority of police executives interviewed for the PERF/COPS report, expressed the view that
officers should be allowed to review camera footage, before writing their report, a minority of police
executives disagreed ( see page 41-42 of the report):


“Other police executives, however, said that the truth—and the officer’s credibility—are better served if an
officer is not permitted to review footage of an incident prior to making a statement. “In terms of the officer’s
statement, what matters is the officer’s perspective at the time of the event, not what is in the video,” said Major
Mark Person of the Prince George’s County (Maryland) Police Department. “That perspective is what they are
going to have to testify to. If officers watch the video before making a statement, they might tailor the statement
to what they see. It can cause them to second-guess themselves, which makes them seem less credible.”

                                                         2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/21/2018 5:17 PM



   Aram James’ e-mail continues


There are many other policy issues debated in the report. Should police crime victims, victims of alleged police
brutality, the press, and community watchdogs- have ready access to body-worn came footage? Or, in the
alternative, should the police be allowed to keep camera footage secret, unless the camera footage shows the
police in a favorable light?


These are all important issues that the council, the police, and the community-will have to grapple with, as we
work together, to establish best community police relations.


Best regards,


Aram James

                https://www.justice.gov/iso/opa/resources/472014912134715246869.pdf




                                                        3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Amy Kacher <amyewardwell@yahoo.com>
Sent:                             Thursday, August 16, 2018 12:07 PM
To:                               Council, City
Subject:                          Photo of traffic on University


I had my son take this photo while we were on University at Center at 2:37pm Tuesday August 14. The traffic is coming
from downtown as far as the eye can see. This is extremely common even this early in the day.




Sent from my iPhone




                                                           1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:32 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Richards <rchrds@comcast.net>
Sent:                              Sunday, August 19, 2018 12:08 PM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           Rail Committee: proposed options for Charleston crossing


Dear Sirs:

I am a homeowner whose property on Monroe Drive abuts the railroad tracks.

The noise from the current trains, especially the freight trains, is loud enough. An elevated track as described in Aecom’s
August 7, 2018 (MCL Road Hybrid) would certainly increase the noise level. And it’s likely that passengers on an elevated
train would be able to see more of the property, reducing my privacy. I strongly feel that an elevated railroad track would
be detrimental to my quality of life and the value of my property.

I much prefer the partially lowered railroad track described as MCR Reverse Hybrid.

Best,

Shan Richards




                                                             1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/21/2018 2:28 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Trish Mulvey <mulvey@ix.netcom.com>
Sent:                            Tuesday, August 21, 2018 1:34 PM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         RE: THANKS for your support for State Water Resources Control Board's Bay Delta
                                 Water Quality Control Plan


BIG HUGS & THANKS to each of you for your unanimous support vote last night, and special thanks to whoever realized
that this item should not be on the consent item calendar. trish

From: Trish Mulvey [mailto:mulvey@ix.netcom.com]
Sent: Monday, August 20, 2018 8:54 AM
To: city.council@cityofpaloalto.org
Subject: support for State Water Resources Control Board's Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan

Dear Mayor Kniss and Council Members,

   Please add this note to your collection of community requests urging you to deny the City staff
recommendation and instead strongly support the State Water Board’s well-researched and balanced proposed
Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan. Thanks for your attention to this request.

Trish Mulvey
527 Rhodes Drive, Palo Alto




                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:17 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Stephanie Munoz <stephanie@dslextreme.com>
Sent:                          Thursday, August 16, 2018 5:06 PM
To:                            paloaltofreepress
Cc:                            Aram James; swagstaffe; jrosen; Perron, Zachary; Kilpatrick, Brad; Council, City; Lee,
                               Craig; michael gennaco; Kan, Michael; Jonsen, Robert; dcbertini; Kniss, Liz (internal);
                               stevendlee; HRC; gkirby; Keene, James; mdiaz; WILPF Peninsula Palo Alto; council;
                               myraw; molly o'neal; Stump, Molly; Binder, Andrew; Cullen, Charles; citycouncil; ibain;
                               fred124c41; Bains, Paul; dennis r burns; Constantino, Mary; Van Der Zwaag, Minka;
                               roberta ahlquist; nklippen@scscourt.org; dryan@scscourt.org; bwalsh@scscourt.org;
                               sscott; mharris; rpichon; jsylva@scscourt.org; aflint@scscourt.org
Subject:                       Re: An L.A. County deputy faked evidence. Here's how his misconduct was kept secret
                               in court for years



I'm on. How do we get that simple fix you recommend so persuasively? Stephanie


From: "paloaltofreepress" <paloaltofreepress@gmail.com>
To: "Aram James" <abjpd1@gmail.com>
Cc: "swagstaffe" <swagstaffe@smcgov.org>, "jrosen" <jrosen@da.sccgov.org>, "zachary perron"
<zachary.perron@cityofpaloalto.org>, "brad kilpatrick" <brad.kilpatrick@cityofpaloalto.org>, "Council,
City" <city.council@cityofpaloalto.org>, "craig lee" <craig.lee@cityofpaloalto.org>, "michael gennaco"
<michael.gennaco@oirgroup.com>, "michael kan" <michael.kan@cityofpaloalto.org>, "Robert
Jonsen" <Robert.Jonsen@cityofpaloalto.org>, "dcbertini" <dcbertini@menlopark.org>, "liz kniss"
<liz.kniss@cityofpaloalto.org>, "stevendlee" <stevendlee@alumni.duke.edu>, "hrc"
<hrc@cityofpaloalto.org>, "gkirby" <gkirby@redwoodcity.org>, "james keene"
<james.keene@cityofpaloalto.org>, "mdiaz" <mdiaz@redwoodcity.org>, "WILPF Peninsula Palo Alto"
<wilpf.peninsula.paloalto@gmail.com>, "council" <council@redwoodcity.org>, "myraw"
<myraw@smcba.org>, "molly o'neal" <molly.o'neal@pdo.sccgov.org>, "molly stump"
<molly.stump@cityofpaloalto.org>, "Andrew Binder" <Andrew.Binder@CityofPaloAlto.org>, "Charles
Cullen" <Charles.Cullen@CityofPaloAlto.org>, "citycouncil" <citycouncil@menlopark.org>, "ibain"
<ibain@redwoodcity.org>, "fred124c41" <fred124c41@gmail.com>, "stephanie"
<stephanie@dslextreme.com>, "Paul Bains" <pbains7@projectwehope.com>, "dennis r burns"
<dennis.r.burns@gmail.com>, "mary constantino" <mary.constantino@cityofpaloalto.org>, "minka
vanderzwaag" <minka.vanderzwaag@cityofpaloalto.org>, "roberta ahlquist"
<roberta.ahlquist@sjsu.edu>, nklippen@scscourt.org, dryan@scscourt.org, bwalsh@scscourt.org,
"sscott" <sscott@scscourt.org>, "mharris" <mharris@scscourt.org>, "rpichon"
<rpichon@scscourt.org>, jsylva@scscourt.org, aflint@scscourt.org
Sent: Sunday, August 12, 2018 11:09:43 AM
Subject: Re: An L.A. County deputy faked evidence. Here's how his misconduct was kept secret in
court for years


A simple fix would be the elimination of the police officers special bill of rights:
https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Law_Enforcement_Officers%27_Bill_of_Rights



                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:17 AM
You wont find anyone, anyone outside of law enforcement willing to discuss to hot topic... police
officers are notoriously known to receive unprecedented witness protection... by DA’s.

Secondly, the first rule of discover asked in any criminal case involving the police? Prior misconduct.
This should be explored first, during Pre-Trial Conference...and should be reviewed and confirmed
independently....

Unfortunately, police are known to lie cheat and steal at the cost of being innocence. Including, but far
from limited, exculpatory evidence withheld.

Mark


Sent from my iPad

On Aug 10, 2018, at 1:37 PM, Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com> wrote:


       http://www.latimes.com/local/california/la-me-brady-list-secrecy-court-20180809-
       htmlstory.html


       An L.A. County deputy faked
       evidence. Here's how his misconduct
       was kept secret in court for years




       They were at the tail end of their overnight shift when they spotted Gerald
       Simmons near a vacant lot in Inglewood.

       The two Los Angeles County sheriff’s deputies said they saw the 43-year-old
       toss a plastic baggie of rock cocaine to the ground.

                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:17 AM
       Their testimony would become the backbone of the 2009 criminal case against
       Simmons.

       After a six-day trial, the verdict was swift. Guilty.

       But jurors made their decision without knowing a crucial detail.

       Jose Ovalle, one of the deputies who also booked the evidence, had been
       suspended five years earlier for pouring taco sauce on a shirt to mimic blood in
       a criminal case. He nearly lost his job.

       Ovalle’s past was kept secret for years from prosecutors, judges, defendants and
       jurors, even though he was a potential witness in hundreds of criminal cases that
       relied on his credibility, according to a Times investigation.

       The deputy took the stand in 31 cases before the district attorney’s office found
       out about his misconduct. Once his credibility came into question, prosecutors
       offered some career criminals generous plea deals in pending cases or dropped
       charges altogether. Some went on to commit serious crimes.

       Ovalle is not an isolated example. Misconduct by law enforcement officers who
       testify in court is routinely kept hidden by California’s police privacy laws.

       The U.S. Supreme Court requires prosecutors to inform criminal defendants
       about an officer’s wrongdoing — but the state’s laws are so strict that
       prosecutors cannot directly access the personnel files of their own police
       witnesses. Instead, California puts the burden on defendants to prove to a judge
       that an officer’s record is relevant.

       Times reporters reviewed documents from hundreds of criminal cases in which
       the district attorney’s office identified Ovalle as a potential witness after he was
       caught faking the bloody evidence in 2003.

       Few defendants tried to obtain information about Ovalle’s past. A handful of
       those who did weren’t given information about the deputy’s discipline. Judges
       never gave them a public explanation for why it wouldn’t have been relevant.

       By the time the district attorney’s office learned about Ovalle’s misconduct, he
       had been a potential witness against 312 defendants. More than 230 were
       convicted.
                                                     3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:17 AM




                                                     4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:17 AM
       The California Supreme Court will decide whether law enforcement agencies
       can tell prosecutors if a police witness has a record of serious discipline. Justin
       Sullivan / Getty Images

       A Times investigation last year identified Ovalle and others on a secret Sheriff’s
       Department list of deputies whose misconduct included falsely testifying in
       court, pulling over a motorist and receiving oral sex from her while on patrol,
       and tipping off a drug dealer’s girlfriend about a narcotics bust.

       Los Angeles County Sheriff Jim McDonnell wanted to disclose the so-called
       Brady list of about 300 officers to prosecutors, but the deputies union went to
       court to stop him.

       The state’s Supreme Court will soon decide whether McDonnell and other law
       enforcement agencies can tell prosecutors if a police witness has a record of
       serious discipline. An appellate court has ruled they cannot.

       Ovalle now works as a sergeant in the Sheriff’s Department’s Century station in
       Lynwood. Last year, he was paid $240,000 in salary, overtime and other
       earnings.

       When reached by The Times for comment, Ovalle said: “I don’t understand why
       the L.A. Times is so interested about me.” He declined to comment further and
       asked not to be contacted again.



       ‘It was stupidity’
       Ovalle’s troubles began in August 2003.




                                                     5
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:17 AM




                                                     6
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:17 AM
       Los Angeles County Sheriff's Deputy Jose Ovalle. (L.A. County Sheriff's
       Department)

       Several gang members at the Pitchess Detention Center in Castaic had slashed
       an inmate’s neck and head with razor blades.

       A 26-year-old deputy with just three years on the job, Ovalle was responsible
       for collecting the evidence and writing the incident report.

       When he realized a bloody shirt from one of the suspects had gone missing,
       Ovalle took a clean one from the jail laundry, topped it with taco sauce and took
       a photo, according to court and law enforcement records.

       A custody assistant watching Ovalle warned him not to do it, but the deputy
       went ahead and booked the photograph into evidence. The custody assistant
       reported him to a supervisor, according to court records.

       Confronted by sheriff’s investigators, Ovalle confessed.

       “It was stupidity now that I look back on it,” he told the investigators, according
       to a transcript of his interview obtained by The Times. “This uniform means
       everything to me, this badge and gun, it’s my life. … I’m embarrassed.”

       Sheriff’s Department officials told Ovalle he would be fired but then relented,
       noting that he had cooperated with investigators and accepted responsibility,
       according to internal documents. Ovalle was instead handed a 30-day
       suspension. He was ordered to serve 10 of those days and the remainder only if
       he committed a similar offense within the next five years.

       In testimony he gave years later, Ovalle blamed poor training for his conduct
       and downplayed the significance of what he had done, insisting he hadn’t
       fabricated evidence because the bloody shirt had once existed.

       “I don’t consider myself a liar,” he said.

       The Sheriff’s Department never notified the district attorney’s office about
       Ovalle’s actions to see if he should be charged with a crime, according to law
       enforcement records. As a result, prosecutors handling cases in which Ovalle
       was involved had no way of knowing about his past actions.


                                                     7
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:17 AM

       ‘Trying to hide misconduct’
       Two years after his suspension, Ovalle was transferred to the Sheriff’s
       Department’s Lennox station in South Los Angeles, where he made arrests for
       drug possession, theft and assault and later testified in court.

       Defendants who faced him had only one method of possibly learning about his
       misconduct, a procedure that is itself cloaked in secrecy.




                                                     8
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:17 AM




                                                     9
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:17 AM
       "They are trying to hide misconduct, and everyone should be against it," said
       David Kanuth, a former Los Angeles County public defender, regarding
       California's police privacy laws. Genaro Molina / Los Angeles Times

       Under California’s so-called Pitchess laws, defendants can ask a judge to
       examine an officer’s personnel records for allegations of excessive force,
       dishonesty, theft or other acts of “moral turpitude.” Few go through the trouble.

       By the spring of 2008, Ovalle had been listed by prosecutors as a potential
       witness against 125 defendants. Only five tried to delve into Ovalle’s
       background, according to a review of court records.

       If a defendant’s Pitchess motion is granted, a representative from the officer’s
       law enforcement agency meets with the judge in private to go over relevant
       complaints. Neither the prosecutor nor the defense attorney is allowed in the
       room.

       If a judge decides to turn over anything, it is usually only the name and contact
       information of someone who made a complaint against the officer within the
       last five years.

       It is then up to the defense attorney to figure out what happened.

       Supporters say the Pitchess laws prevent accused criminals from fishing for
       information about police witnesses that is irrelevant in their cases.

       David E. Mastagni, a Sacramento-based attorney who represents police unions,
       said most defendants don’t file Pitchess motions because “in the vast majority of
       cases, the officer’s credibility is not an issue.” If an officer has a history of
       dishonesty, he said, a judge will almost always disclose it through Pitchess.

       “It’s a pretty perfect balancing,” he said.

       But defense lawyers complain that the laws make it difficult for people facing
       criminal charges to ask for the information. Many of their jailed clients, they
       say, don’t want to spend weeks or months trying to find out whether a law
       enforcement witness has a history of complaints, especially if they could accept
       a plea deal that would speed up their release.



                                                     10
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:17 AM
       “It isn’t a defeatist attitude as much as it is a realistic understanding of your
       client’s life,” said David Kanuth, a former L.A. County deputy public defender
       who is sharply critical of the state’s police privacy laws. “They are trying to
       hide misconduct, and everyone should be against it.”

       Inside a secret 2014 list of hundreds of L.A. deputies with histories of
       misconduct »

       One of the defendants who tried to dig into Ovalle’s background was Lamar
       Dotson. He had been returning to the Acacia Inn in Inglewood from his job as a
       security officer when Ovalle and his partner ordered him out of his car with
       guns drawn.

       The deputies said they smelled marijuana and found two baggies with the drug.
       When they discovered a stolen gun in the trunk, Dotson explained he had
       confiscated it from someone at one of the clubs where he worked.

       In court records and an interview with The Times, Dotson insisted the deputies
       lied about him having marijuana in the car to justify the search. He said he had
       kept the gun because he had been worried about getting into trouble if he turned
       the weapon into authorities.

       “I was 29 years old, never been in handcuffs, never been to jail,” Dotson told
       The Times.

       Dotson’s attorney filed a Pitchess motion asking for the deputies’ history of
       misconduct, including fabricating evidence. The judge denied the motion. The
       case file and related transcripts have since been destroyed.

       Dotson, who had no criminal history, ended up agreeing to a deal in which he
       pleaded no contest to carrying a loaded firearm and was placed on summary
       probation for three years. The misdemeanor conviction, he said, prevented him
       from obtaining a firearm permit for 10 years, hurting his efforts to find work as
       a security officer and bodyguard.

       If he had known about Ovalle’s past misconduct, Dotson said, he would have
       fought harder for his case to be dismissed. But as months slipped by, his family
       members urged him to acquiesce.


                                                     11
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:17 AM
       “I was trying to get out of the situation as opposed to making it worse,” Dotson
       said. “It really upset me, to tell you the truth, but what can you do about it at
       that point? I did what I had to do to keep going forward.”



       Can you win in a system set up to protect officers? »




       Word about Ovalle’s misconduct began to spread after he arrested 18-year-old
       Sergio Martinez on suspicion of possessing methamphetamine in May 2008.

       Martinez challenged Ovalle’s account of his arrest. His lawyer filed a Pitchess
       motion seeking any complaints accusing the deputy of fabricating or planting
       evidence.

       Superior Court Judge Hector M. Guzman reviewed Ovalle’s personnel records
       and saw the Sheriff’s Department’s internal report about the taco sauce incident.

                                                     12
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:17 AM
       In an unusual move, the judge gave the records to the prosecutor and suggested
       the district attorney’s office decide whether Ovalle should be added to the
       agency’s database of problem officers to alert future defendants.

       The prosecutor in the case, William Frank, told The Times he informed a
       supervisor about Ovalle’s misconduct soon after the hearing — just before he
       started a new job with the state attorney general’s office.

       “I understood the seriousness of the material even though I was a relatively new
       lawyer. I knew what it meant for the case,” Frank said. “I felt I had done what I
       was supposed to do.”

       A district attorney’s spokeswoman blamed “a miscommunication among
       prosecutors.”

       The charges against Martinez were thrown out.




                                                     13
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:17 AM




                                                     14
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:17 AM
       (California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation)

       Juan Alvarez
       • Suspected gang member known as “Demon,” arrested Aug. 10, 2008, by
       Deputy Jose Ovalle

       • Accused of assault with a gun, facing more than a decade in prison

       • Filed a Pitchess motion asking for allegations of misconduct against Ovalle

       • Not informed that Ovalle had been suspended in 2004 for using taco sauce to
       mimic blood on evidence in a criminal investigation

       • Filed another Pitchess motion saying Ovalle’s discipline was disclosed in a
       different case

       • Accepted plea deal and released from prison eight months later

       • Convicted in 10 cases since then, for domestic violence, drunk driving,
       violating a court order and drug possession

       A month later, Ovalle took the stand at a preliminary hearing for Juan Alvarez, a
       suspected gang member known as “Demon.”

       At 31, Alvarez had amassed a criminal record that spanned three states and
       included arrests for assault, drug possession, driving under the influence and
       domestic violence, according to court records.

       Responding to a report of an armed assault, Ovalle said, he witnessed Alvarez
       toss a gun from his waistband, then flee down Lennox Boulevard. The deputies
       recovered a handgun from the scene, Ovalle testified. His misconduct never
       came up.

       Alvarez’s defense attorney, Deputy Public Defender Ethna Burns, filed a
       Pitchess motion that accused Ovalle of lying in court about the arrest and asked
       for complaints against the deputy. Superior Court Judge Mark S. Arnold said he
       would turn over only information related to perjury or planting evidence.

       After looking at Ovalle’s file, the judge initially determined there was nothing
       to disclose.
                                                     15
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:17 AM
       Burns objected. She demanded evidence about the taco sauce incident, which
       attorneys had been discussing in the Torrance courthouse.

       At a later hearing, Arnold ordered the information be given to Burns and Paul
       Guthrie, the prosecutor handling the charges against Alvarez. Guthrie notified
       his office that Ovalle should be added to the district attorney’s database of
       problem law enforcement officers.

       Alvarez was facing up to nearly 16 years in prison. A probation officer
       recommended he serve the maximum sentence if convicted.

       “His criminal activity appears to be escalating and he does not appear to have
       been appreciative of the leniency afforded to him in the past,” she wrote in her
       report.

       But after Alvarez learned of Ovalle’s wrongdoing, he struck a deal on Sept. 22,
       2009, in which he pleaded no contest to carrying a loaded firearm. He was out
       on parole eight months later.

       Alvarez has since been convicted in 10 additional cases, for domestic violence,
       drunk driving, violating a court order and drug possession.




                                                     16
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:17 AM




                                                     17
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:17 AM
       (Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department)

       Gerald Simmons
       • Arrested Jan. 22, 2009, by Deputy Jose Ovalle on suspicion of drug possession

       • Filed a Pitchess motion asking for allegations of misconduct against Ovalle

       • Not informed that Ovalle had been suspended in 2004 for using taco sauce to
       mimic blood evidence in a criminal investigation

       • Convicted at trial on Aug. 18, 2009

       • Judge threw out Simmons’ conviction after learning about Ovalle’s
       misconduct

       • Convicted in 2013 of intentionally infecting a girlfriend with HIV

       • Still in a Nevada prison

       A day after Alvarez’s plea agreement, another Ovalle case was rapidly
       crumbling in the same courthouse.

       Gerald Simmons, the Inglewood man who had been convicted of cocaine
       possession after Ovalle and a partner said they spotted him dropping a baggie of
       drugs, was requesting a new trial.

       Months earlier, his attorney, Jennifer Cheng, had filed a Pitchess motion. She
       alleged that the deputies “intentionally lied about their observations in order to
       create a case against Mr. Simmons.”

       Her motion was granted, but the information she was given about the deputies
       did not mention the taco sauce incident.

       Simmons’ criminal record dated back two decades and included assault with a
       deadly weapon, drug possession, attempted robbery and burglary. He had
       violated parole and probation several times.

       After the jury found him guilty, he faced up to 12 years in prison.



                                                     18
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 9:17 AM
       But before sentencing, Cheng and the prosecutor learned of Ovalle’s
       misconduct, according to court records.

       The judge threw out the conviction. He ruled Ovalle had been a “significant
       material witness” and that his fabrication of evidence in 2003 went to “the very
       heart of this case.”

       Less than two years later, Simmons was in Las Vegas when he intentionally
       infected a girlfriend with HIV, court records show. He was sentenced to up to
       12 ½ years in prison.

       The 53-year-old was recently denied release. The parole board said his crimes
       were becoming increasingly more serious.

       corina.knoll@latimes.com | Twitter: @corinaknoll

       ben.poston@latimes.com | Twitter: @bposton

       maya.lau@latimes.com | Twitter: @mayalau


       Sent from my iPhone




                                                     19
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:19 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com>
Sent:                              Friday, August 17, 2018 9:27 PM
To:                                Palo Alto Free Press
Cc:                                dcbertini@menlopark.org; Jonsen, Robert; Kilpatrick, Brad; Carnahan, David;
                                   mdiaz@redwoodcity.org; HRC; Council, City; Minor, Beth; Van Der Zwaag, Minka;
                                   Keene, James; council@redwoodcity.org; ibain@redwoodcity.org;
                                   gkirby@redwoodcity.org; Binder, Andrew; stevendlee@alumni.duke.edu; Tony Dixon;
                                   jrosen@da.sccgov.org; molly.o'neal@pdo.sccgov.org; sscott@scscourt.org;
                                   mharris@scscourt.org; jalcaraz@cityofepa.com; apardini@cityofepa.org;
                                   cromero@cityofepa.org; wilpf.peninsula.paloalto@gmail.com;
                                   stephanie@dslextreme.com; roberta.ahlquist@sjsu.edu; chuckjagoda1@gmail.com;
                                   apierce@pierceshearer.com; Stump, Molly; swagstaffe@smcgov.org;
                                   michael.gennaco@oirgroup.com; aflint@scscourt.org; dryan@scscourt.org;
                                   rpichon@scscourt.org; Perron, Zachary; Lee, Craig; Kan, Michael;
                                   allison@padailypost.com; Cullen, Charles; jseybert@redwoodcity.org;
                                   bwalsh@scscourt.org; acisneros@CApublicrecordslaw.com; griffinam@sbcglobal.net;
                                   Bains, Paul; dprice@padailypost.com; denkafer1@yahoo.com;
                                   emibach@padailypost.com; tom.dubois@gmail.com
Subject:                           Re: Bid to open California's secret police misconduct files takes major step forward


Hi Mark,

Sadly the powerful police lobbies, here in California, continue to wage a war against full transparency of police records,
body‐worn camera footage, taser investigative reports, etc.,

As long as law enforcement continues to fight the full transparency that is required of other public employees‐
communities, particular the poor‐and communities of color —will continue to distrust the police —all to the determent
of a truly robust, vibrant and enlightened democracy.

Progressive members of law enforcement acknowledge all of the above. Unfortunately the progressive members of law
enforcement are greatly out numbered by those in law enforcement that trace their heritage and mentality‐to the slave‐
catcher era. This bill, if passed ‐will be a very very small step in holding law enforcement to the same standard of
accountability‐ that applies to other public employees. Much more work is necessary if law enforcement is to gain the
trust of the people of this state.

Best regards,

Aram

P.S. There was a horrific death by Taser in Redwood City, on Tuesday, August 14, 2018. The Daily Post ran an article ‐
front page ‐August 15. The article‐that gave only brief details‐describes 4 RWC police officers struggling to arrest a large
suspect ‐with an apparent mental heath history‐known to the RWC police. Despite the known risk of tasering an
individual in such a circumstances‐the police‐ apparently ignored all of the warnings listed by the manufacturer, Axon,
formerly known as Taser International ‐and in essence sentenced this man to execution by Taser ‐without a trial. I
predict that a wrong death suit will be brought against Redwood City ‐which will result in huge financial judgment,
against the city. I will keep you updated on the case.


                                                              1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:19 AM
P.S.S. The views expressed above are those of the writer, Aram James

> On Aug 17, 2018, at 8:09 PM, Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com> wrote:
>
> Hi Mark,
> I’m not h
>
> Sent from my iPhone
>
>> On Aug 17, 2018, at 7:43 PM, Palo Alto Free Press <paloaltofreepress@gmail.com> wrote:
>>
>> I hope the impossibility becomes the reality... With the passage of this bill, transparency and accountability will no
longer become the shadow in which police hide....
>>
>>
>> Mark Petersen‐Perez
>> Editor: Palo Alto Free Press
>> Ticuantepe, Nicaragua 🇳🇮
>>
>>
>> Sent from my iPad
>>
>>> On Aug 16, 2018, at 10:57 PM, Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com> wrote:
>>>
>>> http://www.latimes.com/politics/la‐pol‐ca‐police‐records‐bill‐advanc
>>> es‐20180816‐story.html?outputType=amp
>>>
>>>
>>> Sent from my iPhone




                                                             2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 9:56 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                      Gina Goodhill <ggoodhill@tesla.com>
Sent:                                      Monday, August 20, 2018 9:46 AM
To:                                        Council, City
Cc:                                        Press
Subject:                                   Re: Consumer Complaint regarding Tesla/Solar City


Dear Mayor Kniss and Councilmembers,

We are responding to Ms. Mehta’s email below in which she contends that her $500 deposit is refundable because she
did not proceed with the site survey.

By way of background, Mr. Satish Bisht signed the Solar Purchase Agreement associated with the address that Ms.
Mehta provided Tesla Energy on March 7, 2018. Mr. Bisht subsequently requested to postpone his site survey on April
4th, 2018 and first requested a refund of his deposit on May 18, 2018. Pursuant to Mr. Bisht’s Purchase Agreement, he
had ten (10) business days after signing to cancel the Agreement at no cost to him. As confirmed by the aforementioned
timeline, Mr. Bisht did not request to cancel his Agreement within this explicit cancellation period. As such, Mr. Bisht is
not entitled to a refund of his deposit, as was first communicated to him back on May 18th.

Despite the Agreement’s unambiguous cancellation timeframe, Tesla Energy agrees to refund Mr. Bisht’s $500 deposit
as a gesture of good customer service. Tesla Energy now considers this matter closed.

Please let me know if you have any questions.

Gina Goodhill | Sr. Policy Associate | Business Development and Policy
p 213.447.8583 | ggoodhill@tesla.com




The content of this message is the proprietary and confidential property of Tesla Motors, and should be treated as such. If you are not the intended
recipient and have received this message in error, please delete this message from your computer system and notify me immediately by reply e-mail.
Any unauthorized use or distribution of the content of this message is prohibited. Thank you.




Please consider the environment before printing this email.




          From: Apurva Mehta <mehta.apurva@gmail.com>
          Date: Friday, August 17, 2018 at 11:00 AM
          To: "city.council@cityofpaloalto.org" <city.council@cityofpaloalto.org>
          Cc: Press <press@tesla.com>
          Subject: Consumer Complaint regarding Tesla/Solar City

          To
          Honorable Members of the Mayor and City Council of Palo Alto
                                                                           1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 9:56 AM

       Regarding: Consumer Complaint

       Dear Members,

       I contacted Tesla for a Solar System Installation in my home in San Jose. On an initial consultation, they
       charged a refundable $500 for the site survey that was to happen at a future date. We later decided to
       not proceed and so the site survey never happened and requested for the refund back.

       It's been more than 5 months and I have been bounced between the Sales Engineer and the Support
       Department.

       I would really appreciate if the City Council of Palo Alto where Tesla is Headquartered can help or
       provide me with guidance with the next steps.

       Thanks
       Apurva Mehta




                                                            2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/23/2018 7:45 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Palo Alto Free Press <paloaltofreepress@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Wednesday, August 22, 2018 6:10 AM
To:                              aram james; bjohnson@paweekly.com; bjohnson@embarcaderomediagroup.com;
                                 Council, City; Jonsen, Robert; Perron, Zachary; swebby@da.sccgov.org; Kniss, Liz
                                 (external); sdremann@paweekly.com; gsheyner@paweekly.com;
                                 acisneros@CApublicrecordslaw.com; Keith, Claudia
Subject:                         Re: First community meeting on Cubberley set for October


Great comment Aram..... Unfortunately, the Weekly has decided to ban our participation and comments. Stating alleged
unknown violations....but, as you know, their record on spinning and censorship is undisputed.

Saludo,

Mark Petersen-Perez
Editor: Palo Alto FREE Press
Ticuantepe, Nicaragua 🇳🇮




                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/23/2018 7:45 AM




Sent from my iPad

> On Aug 21, 2018, at 3:09 PM, aram james <abjpd1@icloud.com> wrote:
>
> Mark,
> See my comments towards end of comments -sorry for some typos....love if you comment —-I remember your
photojournalism article on Cub -well done. Maybe you can post that piece.
> Aram
>
> https://www.paloaltoonline.com/square/index.php?i=3&t=38832#.W3x-qoJOThw.mailto
>
>
> Sent from my iPhone



                                                        2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/23/2018 7:39 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                   Linhai Qiu <lqiu@alumni.stanford.edu>
Sent:                                   Tuesday, August 21, 2018 5:44 PM
To:                                     Scharff, Greg; Fine, Adrian
Cc:                                     Council, City
Subject:                                Re: From Charleston Meadow residents



Thank you all! We are looking forward to seeing these options go off the table soon.


On Tue, Aug 21, 2018 at 7:15 AM, Greg Scharff <gregscharff@aol.com> wrote:
 I don’t support the options, that will raise the rails. I expect that we will dispatch of them soon.

 Greg

 Sent from my iPhone
On Tue, Aug 21, 2018 at 8:09 AM, Fine, Adrian <Adrian.Fine@cityofpaloalto.org> wrote:

 Thank you Linhai

 Adrian

 On Aug 20, 2018, at 11:40 PM, Linhai Qiu <lqiu@alumni.stanford.edu> wrote:

           Hi Cory, Greg, Lydia, Adrian,

           I am a resident living in the Charleston Meadow area with my family. We are very surprised to learn that the
           options that will raise the rails (including MCL) are still on the table, given our community is so against it. Here is
           why we are so against it. With the current height of the train tracks, we can already see through the windows of the
           caltrains in our backyard and even in the living room. We cannot imagine if the train tracks are raised another 14
           feet (almost twice as high as our fence). The question now is not how it will impact the privacy of the caltrain
           neighbor residents. From our direct experience (before seeing any 3D simulation), we can testify that there will be
           no privacy at all. Let's forget about the noise (especially the freight trains) for a moment. Just think about trains
           passing over the head every day. Just think about that kind of feeling and how much stress that will cause "every"
           day. People have been so anxious about the decisions on your hands that they cannot even fall asleep sometimes.
           For us it is not just discussion and analysis, it is our life, daily life! We have been keeping mentioning the
           constraints, but I think no elevation of the rails should be the most basic constraint.

           (I agree with one point from one of you that we should factor in the cost of all the necessary mitigation such as
           insulation, sight blocking, etc. into the cost analysis, although I also think much of the long-term damage caused by
           elevation will be so costly that can't even be measured.)

           Thanks.




                                                                     1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/23/2018 7:46 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                               Kniss, Liz (internal)
Sent:                               Wednesday, August 22, 2018 10:20 AM
To:                                 Cheryl Lilienstein
Cc:                                 Council, City
Subject:                            Re: Thank you


Thanks, Cheryl!
Liz

> On Aug 21, 2018, at 9:41 AM, Cheryl Lilienstein <clilienstein@me.com> wrote:
>
> Dear City Council,
> Please accept my gratitude for standing up for the wildlife, the rivers, and the beauty of California. Your vote to
support the Bay Delta Plan was the right one, and it’s particularly heartening to see a 9‐0 vote on this issue. It’s so
important to us all.
> Sincerely,
> Cheryl Lilienstein




                                                              1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/23/2018 7:43 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Peter Broadwell <peter@plasm.com>
Sent:                              Tuesday, August 21, 2018 9:17 PM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           Regarding the vote on the Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan


City Council folk ‐

I was in the chambers last night for the first half of the discussion about "Item #5", formerly on the consent calendar
about the Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan.
Fate made it so I had to leave before most the public members got a chance to speak.
By the time I could tune in to the KZSU live broadcast you were onto other agenda items so I missed some points of view
and the vote.

Just learned you all vote 9:0 to go with the Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan that will give the fish a fighting chance!

I couldn't be happier.
You have restored a bit of my faith in government bodies.

Thank you!

;;peter ‐ Peter Broadwell,2325 Cornell Street, Palo Alto




                                                              1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/21/2018 2:33 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Annette Ross <port2103@att.net>
Sent:                            Tuesday, August 21, 2018 7:30 AM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         Road Sharing



I am writing to urge you to use your influence with residents and the SVBC and Stanford to encourage
bicyclists to honor the rules of the road. This may be as simple as educating the cycling community about what
a cyclist’s obligations are. I leave my car at home when I can, availing myself of ride-sharing, use of the
Embarcadero and Tech shuttles, cycling, and walking. When I am on the Oregon bike/pedestrian overpass or in
the Cal Ave tunnel I marvel at how many cyclists ignore the WALK YOUR BIKE and DISMOUNT ZONE
signs. And I am convinced that cyclists think STOP signs apply only to cars, trucks, and motorcycles. One
intersection that is ripe for an accident is California/Columbia. I have seen many cyclists leaving the new
Stanford housing development zoom right past the STOP sign as though it wasn’t there. I presume that
residents of Stanford housing can read, so can only conclude that they choose to ignore the sign.

It’s clear that the transit behavior you want to drive (pardon the pun) is that people not drive. The last few times
I have gone out on my bike I have found myself thinking that I should have driven because it is
safer. Promoting bicycling has got to include promoting bicycle safety and enforcing the rules. A few tickets
here and there might do the trick.

Please do what you can.

Thank you.

Annette Portello Ross




                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 4:41 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                               Janine Bisharat <janine@karunaadvisors.com>
Sent:                               Thursday, August 16, 2018 3:19 PM
To:                                 Council, City
Cc:                                 Beacom, Becky; Selora Albin; Fred Bisharat
Subject:                            Running through our stop sign


Dear Council Members:

I am a CPA and work at home a few days a week. I have lived at 621 Hawthorne Avenue for 25 years now and the
cars running through our stop sign on Byron and Hawthorne has increased to about 3 cars out of 10 that I watch
each day. I have meetings here and my employees are shocked to watch how many cars blow through our stop sign
driving on Hawthorne crossing Byron to get to Middlefield. I have copied my neighbors because they are also aware
of this.

I have called the police and talked with them about coming out but I know that they are too busy to enforce on that
side. They are on our street in the morning ticketing the illegal right turn from middlefield onto our street between 7
– 10 a.m.

I hope you can please figure out what to do about this as it is only a matter of time when one of our seniors from the
neighborhood doesn’t make it fast enough to beat the speeding cars. Next stop is the Palo Alto Weekly.

Thanks
Janine




Janine Bisharat, Principal



1550 El Camino Real, Suite 250
Menlo Park, CA 94025
Phone: 650‐328‐2758| Cell: 650‐248‐1335
janine@karunaadvisors.com| www.karunaadvisors.com/

This email and any attachments may contain private, confidential and privileged material for the sole use of the intended
recipient. If you are not the intended recipient, please immediately delete this email and any attachments.




                                                               1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:24 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com>
Sent:                             Saturday, August 18, 2018 3:14 PM
To:                               rabrica@cityofepa.org; cromero@cityofepa.org; drutherford@cityofepa.org;
                                  cmartinez@cityofepa.org; allison@padailypost.com; emibach@padailypost.com;
                                  apardini@cityofepa.org; mbuell@cityofepa.org; paloaltofreepress@gmail.com;
                                  wilpf.peninsula.paloalto@gmail.com; jalcaraz@cityofepa.org;
                                  stevendlee@alumni.duke.edu; myraw@smcba.org; Jonsen, Robert;
                                  dcbertini@menlopark.org; Keene, James; ibain@redwoodcity.org;
                                  council@redwoodcity.org; gkirby@redwoodcity.org; mdiaz@redwoodcity.org; Council,
                                  City; Binder, Andrew; molly.o'neal@pdo.sccgov.org; jrosen@da.sccgov.org;
                                  chuckjagoda1@gmail.com; essenceoftruth@gmail.com; Stump, Molly;
                                  acisneros@capublicrecordslaw.com; Kilpatrick, Brad; Lee, Craig;
                                  michael.gennaco@oirgroup.com; stephanie@dslextreme.com; Van Der Zwaag, Minka;
                                  bwalsh@scscourt.org; sdremann@paweekly.com; dryan@scscourt.org;
                                  rpichon@scscourt.org; sscott@scscourt.org; swagstaffe@co.sanmateo.ca.us; Minor,
                                  Beth; Bains, Paul; fields.randal@gmail.com; jgreen@dailynewsgroup.com; Holman,
                                  Karen; nklippen@scscourt.org; roberta.ahlquist@sjsu.edu; judyblueeyes1@gmail.com;
                                  Perron, Zachary
Cc:                               Carnahan, David; Tony Dixon; tom.dubois@gmail.com
Subject:                          Shock Tactics: Inside the Taser, the weapon that transformed policing




        August 19, 2018

        Dear East Palo Alto City Council members et al:

        Over the next few weeks I will be sending you a number of articles on the extraordinary danger
        Tasers pose to our communities . The first article I am sending you is the award winning- 7 part
        series- published by Reuters. The series was 18 months in the preparation stage and the seven
        articles stretch from August 2017- February 2018. Some of the separate articles are interactive
        and will allow you to pinpoint Taser related deaths-now at 1005 deaths and climbing -in different
        states, cities, etc...I consider this series to be extraordinarily well researched and documented .
        But I will leave it up to each of you- to decide for yourself the quality of the series.

        Best regards,

        Aram B. James
        State-bar # 80215
        415-370-5056
P.S. I will send out the 7th part of the series in a separate e-mail


        https://www.reuters.com/investigates/section/usa-taser/
                                                           1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:24 AM



       Sent from my iPhone




                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 4:01 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Beth Bondel <bondel585@gmail.com>
Sent:                             Monday, August 20, 2018 3:44 PM
To:                               Council, City
Subject:                          Small business difficulties


Dear Mayor Kniss and Council Members:

I am writing to let you know how difficult it is to be a small business owner in Palo Alto. I am a psychologist and have
had my office in 550 Hamilton for 31 years. When it came time to renew my lease this spring, the management company
would only offer me a 4 month lease, not extendable, at double the rate I am currently paying. Every lease that is
expiring in the building is only being extended for one year. Each time a lease ends, the walls of the space are removed
and the interior becomes one large room suitable for high tech workers. What this means is that a building that had
many individual offices occupied by accountants, lawyers and mental health professionals is being converted to hi tech
use . The occupancy of the building is increased and there is no place for small business owners to go in Palo Alto
because entities like Amazon and Palentir can pay so much more rent. What is puzzling to me as well is that the building
directory does not reflect the changes in tenancy. Names of tenants who have left long ago remain on the directory.

What could not be accomplished from the outside is taking place from within. The owners of 550 were not allowed to
tear down the building and rebuild because of neighborhood objection. Nevertheless, the tenancy is being transformed
and the occupancy substantially increased. In the same way the City is considering how to help renters who are being
evicted, I would ask that the question of how to support the small business owner in Palo Alto become a matter the
Council addresses.

Sincerely,

Beth Rosenthal, PhD




                                                           1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/21/2018 2:29 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Julianne Frizzell <julianneasla@sonic.net>
Sent:                         Tuesday, August 21, 2018 12:11 PM
To:                           Council, City
Subject:                      State BAy Delta Plan



For the members of the CPA City Council,

I send my heartfelt thanks for the eloquent and thoughtful comments that many of you made in
support of the State Water Resources Control Board Bay Delta Plan. I hope that our CPA
unanimous vote for the resolution in support of the Plan will stimulate other communities to have the
courage to follow suit.

Regards to all

Julianne Frizzell

Julianne Adams Frizzell / ASLA

julianneasla@sonic.net

650-325-0905




                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/21/2018 5:17 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Paul Collacchi <pjcoll@comcast.net>
Sent:                             Tuesday, August 21, 2018 4:46 PM
To:                               Council, City
Subject:                          Support Bay Delta Resolution


Mayor Kniss and Council Members,

Thank you for your unanimous support for the undiluted Bay‐Delta Plan as proposed by the State Water Board. The
sincerity of your voice and action dispels the empty rhetoric of "voluntary settlement" to support a fairer and saner
distribution of water in California. The Resolution is a breath of fresh air, and it is heartfelt.

Thank you.

Paul Collacchi
Redwood City, CA



           Virus-free. www.avast.com




                                                            1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:29 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Saturday, August 18, 2018 9:02 PM
To:                             gkirby@redwoodcity.org; mdiaz@redwoodcity.org; council@redwoodcity.org;
                                paloaltofreepress@gmail.com; ibain@redwoodcity.org; Jonsen, Robert;
                                dcbertini@menlopark.org; stevendlee@alumni.duke.edu; Keene, James;
                                myraw@smcba.org; Council, City; michael.gennaco@oirgroup.com;
                                apardini@cityofepa.org; cromero@cityofepa.org; rabrica@cityofepa.org;
                                wilpf.peninsula.paloalto@gmail.com
Subject:                        Tasers 1042 dead and counting-see Reuters series interactive tracker for confirmation
                                .....cites pay high cost for Taser deaths ..manufacturer’s warnings —now at 4500 words
                                —7-8 page —often ignored by police officers due to lack of training—payout from...
Attachments:                    Aram James (DJ-1-12-18).pdf


Assistant Chief Gary Kerry:

As promised, I am continuing to send out relevant articles re the extraordinary risk of death and injuries caused
by Tasers. I will share this piece, No excuse for Tasers in our jails with you and other members of the
Redwood City government—et al: I request you and others read the piece, and the decide for yourselves
whether its past time we ban Tasers. Other relevant Taser related articles will follow in the near future.

Best regards,

Aram James



Sent from my iPhone




                                                         1
                                                        WS ANGELES & SAN FRANCISCO



                                  ~ail y                               dfourrrgJ
                                                              FRIDAY, JANUARY 12, 2018



There's no excuse for laser use in our jails
By Aram James                                                                       232, resulted in judgments or        at all after having reviewed the
and Richard Konda                                                                   settlements for the plaintiffs:      extensive warnings. Ed Davis,
                                                                                    220 settlements and 12 judg-         former Boston police chief from
            atchdogs across ~e

W
                                                                                    ments. Reuters was able to de-       2006-2013, in ultimately declin-
            country are orgamz-                                                     termine payouts in 193 cases,        ing to purchase Tasers for his
            ing to oppose police                                                    totaling $172 million paid by cit-   department said the following:
practices that run contrary to                                                      ies and their insurers. That dol-    The warnings "made the weapon
community values and our con-                                                       lar figure does not include three    impractical to use, and it gave a
stitutional rights. In Santa Clara                                                  dozen cases in which settlements     lot of us the impression that we
County in the spring of 2017,                                                       remained confidential or were        weren't getting the full story. I
Sheriff Laurie Smith, a longtime                                                    unavailable." (Emphasis added.)      didn't want to take the risk. The
                                                       New YOf'k Times News Service
opponent of Tasers, in a surpris-                                                     These findings regarding the       potential litigation costs abso-
ing shift of policy, announced                                                      cost of litigation should trouble    lutely were a factor."
her plan to introduce Tasers into       Taser, the Weapon that Trans- any law enforcement agency,                           The tragic death of Everette
the Santa Clara County jails.           formed Policing") and the Bar city or county contemplating the                   Howard, a young African-Amer-
Local civil rights organizations        Association of San Francisco.               purchase of Tasers.                  ican student, is a case examined
immediate]y began organizing to                                                                                          in the Reuter's series. One Taser
resist the sheriff's call for Tasers.   Taser-Related Deaths and Lit-           Taser Warnings                           blast by University of Cincinna-
   One of our first strategies was      igation                                    Historically the manufactur-          ti police officer Richard Haas, a
to ensure that members of the              Critically important to con-         er had very few warnings re-             certified Taser instructor, result-
community were as fully in-             vincing our sheriff of the inap-        garding the safety of its weap-          ed in Everette Howard's death.
formed as possible regarding the        propriateness of bringing Tasers        on. Increasingly and in order            "Haas fired his stun gun. One
risks that Tasers pose to human         to the jails is Reuter's recent         to shift liability to cities and         electrified dart hit below How-
life. We reviewed materials on          finding that the death toll associ-     police departments, Taser now            ard's lower left chest, the other
Tasers and got ourselves cur-           ated with Tasers is substantially       has a 4,500-word, seven-page             near his waist. The 18 year-old
rent on the nuances of the issue.       more than previously reported by        warning. The warning advises             collapsed, unconscious, and was
Next, we scheduled meetings             mainstream civil rights organiza-       users not to deploy the Taser in         pronounced dead at the hospi-
over a seven-month period with          tions like Amnesty Intemation-          the area of the face, eyes, neck,        tal." Haas subsequently said, "I
key elected and non-elected of-         al. Using rigorous journalistic         chest, heart and the genitals. And       did not in my wildest dreams ex-
ficials who we felt could influ-        standards, Reuters documented           not to Taser a variety of popula-        pect this kid to die."
ence the sheriff's decision. This       1,005 deaths related to Taser use       tions including the frail, mental-          As part of his role as a certified
included members of the Santa           by law enforcement.                     ly ill, pregnant women and those         Taser trainer, Haas acknowledged
Clara County Board of Supervi-             In addition, Reuters complet-        with heart problems. By warning          that he had studied the Taser
sors who ultimately will vote to        ed a thorough examination of the        police departments regarding             safety warnings over a 10-year
decide whether the sheriff will         monies paid out by cities across        the risk of death and serious            period and noted that they had
be allowed to purchase Tasers.          the country in Taser related lit-       injury when a Taser is improp-           become more complex over the
We also met with the elected            igation. Reuters identified and         erly used, the manufacturer has          years. Ironically, the Taser blast
Santa Clara County district at-         reviewed 442 wrongful death             effectively shifted liability from       that killed Everette Howard was
tomey, the Santa Clara County           lawsuits in which Tasers were           itself to police departments and         the first time Haas had deployed
public defender and the county          a factor that may have caused           municipalities.                          a Taser in the field. He ultimate-
counsel. And most importantly,          death. "In 120 of the 442 cases            Reuters also explored in detail       ly concluded, "it seemed like it
we met with the sheriff and her         or 27%, the Taser was the only          the progression of Taser warn-           was getting harder and harder to
staff to open up a dialogue on          force alleged in the claim; in the      ings that includes a comprehen-          use the Taser." The University of
this critical issue.                    remaining 322 cases, the stun           sive interactive guide.                  Cincinnati ultimately settled the
   Here are some of the argu-           guns were alleged to have been             The progression of increasing-        Howard's family wrongful death
ments and information we pro-           part of a broader array of police       ly restrictive warnings issued by        lawsuit for $2 million. Taser was
vided much of which came from           force. More than three-fifths of        Taser has led some police agen-          not sued in the matter.
a recent fivepart series by Reu-        the 366 of the concluded law-           cies to either shelve Tasers all            In another case explored by
ters ("Shock Tactics: Inside the        suits against governments, or           together or not to purchase them         Reuters, Linwood Lambert was
tasered some 20 times by South           ports 47% efficacy, but LAPD                    eluded the purchase price, main-                be it the use of Tasers, inhumane
Boston, Virginia, police officers.       far exceeds the size of SFPD.                   tenance, training and oversight.                jail conditions, unconstitutional
He died. There was substantial           The OPD which is closer in                      Assuming a department size of                   surveillance tactics, racially dis-
evidence that the three officers         size to the SFPD, reported that                 2,200 officers, the cost is be-                 criminatory police enforcement;
involved ignored the manufac-            in 2015 Tasers were deployed                    tween $17.6 million and $22                     be confident that there is a way to
turer's warning regarding the            on just 37 occasions and 32                     million." Clearly, the sheriff and              organize your community to ef-
risk of repeatedly tasering vic-         times in 2016. Oakland reported                 the Santa Clara County Board of                 fectively challenge these issues.
tims. In addition, the officers ig-      for each year, the efficacy was                 Supervisors need to consider the                Meet early and often with the
nored other warnings issued by           50%." Other studies have con-                   cost factors raised above before                community and with your local
the manufacturer. Under oath at          firmed that where warnings are                  expending millions of tax payer                 elected officials. Provide them
a deposition, one of three offi-         complied with the use of Tasers                 dollars on a weapon that is in-                 with the necessary information
cers involved, Corporal Tiffany          drops dramatically. Similarly,                  creasingly seen as impractical to               to fully educate them on the is-
Bratton, acknowledged that she           numerous studies have con-                      use.                                            sues. Call on your local district
was aware of the manufacturer's          firmed that Tasers have an unac-                                                                attorney, who is the chief, law en-
warnings. In a chilling statement,       ceptably high failure rate putting              Final Argument                                  forcement officer in every com-
she said, "If I read and abided by       both the officers and intended                     Tasers kill on the average of                munity, to support your efforts to
every single warning ... I would         victim at risk.                                 one person per week in the Unit-                challenge and end police practic-
not Taser anyone."                          Moreover, Tasers are not effec-              ed States. According to the Re-                 es that diminish public trust for
                                         tive. Michael Leonesio, a retired               uters series, nine out of 10 who                local law enforcement. Remem-
Catch-22                                 Oakland peace officer, provided                 die are unarmed. Tasers are un-                 ber police practices are not some
   More and more attention is            answers to questions posed by                   safe to use in jails because of the             obscure body of knowledge that
being paid by commentators to            the Bar Association of San Fran-                substantial risk of injury or death             we the community need sit back
the fact that the use of Tasers is       cisco. "Given the warnings is-                  to both inmates and correction                  and passively accept. We can in
a Catch-22. Failure by police de-        sued by Taser International, does               officers. The strongest single                  fact make a difference.
partments to follow closely the          this diminish the weapon's effi-                piece of evidence of this lack of
ever growing restrictions on the         cacy and/or circumstances other-                safety is the 1,005 Taser related              Aram James is a retired Santa
use ofTasers issued by the manu-         wise warranting Taser use[?] ...                deaths reported in the Reuters                  Clara County deputy public de-
facturer has resulted in unneces-        Answer: The latest manufacturer                 fivepart series on Tasers. Equally             fender, a member of CJA and a
sary deaths and a huge increase          warnings and trainings, as well                 powerful evidence of why Tasers                co-founder of the Albert Cobar-
in the costs of litigation borne         as the Courts and current case                  should be banned is the ever                    rubias Justice Project (ACJP), a
by municipalities. On the other          law decisions, have absolutely                  growing list of restrictions/warn-             grassroots legal advocacy orga-
hand, where police departments           limited the circumstances when                  ings issued by the manufacturer                 nization located in San Jose.
are closely complying with the           a TASER, can and/or, should be                  themselves regarding the serious
manufacturer's complex warn-             used. Combine this with the fact                risks of injury and death related               Richard Konda is an attor-
ings, they are finding it increas-       that the new generation weap-                   to the use of Tasers.                           ney and executive director of
ingly impractical to use Tasers.         ons are generating only half the                   The millions that would be                   the Asian Law Alliance and the
The Oakland Police Department            electrical output of the previous               spent in arming the correctional                 Chairperson of the Coalition
has over 700 police officers on          generations, and I question the                 officers in the jails with Tasers               for Justice and Accountability
their force, all are armed with          current weapons' ability for con-               would be better spent on hiring                 (CJA). Konda and James have
Tasers. The Bar Association of           sistent, reliable, subject incapac-             more and better trained correc-                 challenged the use of Tasers by
San Francisco Criminal Jus-              itation."                                       tional officers. Finally, given the             law enforcement for more than a
tice Task Force, Committee on                                                            recommendations of the Santa                    decade.
Tasers contacted the Oakland             Worth the Cost?                                 Clara County Blue Ribbon Com-
Police Department to determine             In June 2017, Taser expert Mi-                mission on Improving Custody
how frequently Tasers were de-           chael Leonesio, was called as an                Operations, the purchase and use
ployed.                                  expert witness before the San                   of Tasers in the jails runs counter
   "To help answer some of               Francisco Police Commission on                  to the community's loud and re-
the questions, the BASF also             the potential costs of outfitting               peated calls for a more humane
reached out to the Oakland Po-           all members of the SFPD with                    approach to incarceration.
lice Department (OPD) to deter-          Tasers. ''During his testimony,
mine how often Tasers are used,          he estimated the first year in Call to Action
and how often they are effective.        costs to San Francisco at $8,000   When your community is faced
It is well known that LAPD re-           to $10,000 per officer which in- with a questionable police practice




                  Reprinted with permission from the Daily Journal. ©2018 Daily Journal Corporation. All rights reserved Reprinted by ReprintPros 949-702-5390.
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:19 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Friday, August 17, 2018 11:31 PM
To:                              gkirby@redwoodcity.org; paloaltofreepress@gmail.com;
                                 wilpf.peninsula.paloalto@gmail.com; council@redwoodcity.org;
                                 mdiaz@redwoodcity.org; Jonsen, Robert; stevendlee@alumni.duke.edu; HRC; Council,
                                 City; dcbertini@menlopark.org; ibain@redwoodcity.org; Kniss, Liz (internal);
                                 michael.gennaco@oirgroup.com; myraw@smcba.org; nklippen@scscourt.org;
                                 molly.o'neal@pdo.sccgov.org; jrosen@da.sccgov.org; stephanie@dslextreme.com;
                                 Keene, James; chuckjagoda1@gmail.com; Stump, Molly; Perron, Zachary;
                                 swagstaffe@smcgov.org; Kilpatrick, Brad; dprice@padailypost.com; Binder, Andrew;
                                 Van Der Zwaag, Minka; Minor, Beth; Carnahan, David; sscott@scscourt.org;
                                 rpichon@scscourt.org; dryan@scscourt.org; emibach@padailypost.com;
                                 allison@padailypost.com; jgreen@dailynewsgroup.com; bunnychiba@icloud.com;
                                 Lewis. james
Subject:                         Tasers extraordinarily dangerous -the death toll continues to grow—1042 and climbing
                                 -almost all unarmed people of color and the poor ......



August 17, 2018

Dear Assistant Chief Garry Kirby:

In light of the recent, August 13, 2018, death of a RWC resident, Ramsey Saad, after being tasered by a yet to
be named member of your department- I am requesting that you—and members of your staff- read the below
linked to article: No Excuse for Tasers in our Jails. The article was co-written by Aram James & Richard
Konda.

I will also share the piece with members of the RWC city council and your city manager. I am hopeful that once
you have read the piece( and the Reuters 7 part series on the danger of Tasers) that you will strongly and
consciously consider urging your department to shelve Tasers permanently.

Sincerely,

Aram James

State-bar # 80215

P.S. in the next few days I will send you and the city council other articles on the taser issue.


http://ccin.menlopark.org/att-17785/Aram_James__DJ-1-12-18_.pdf

Shared via the Google app


Sent from my iPhone


                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/21/2018 2:34 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Martin Gothberg <martin.gothberg@gmail.com>
Sent:                         Tuesday, August 21, 2018 7:09 AM
To:                           Council, City
Subject:                      Thank You All



...for finding the courage to be the first city in the SFPUC/BAWSCA scheme to break
from the herd and endorse the Bay Delta Plan! I am so impressed with you all. I live in
Santa Clara but I volunteer on weekends in Palo Alto along the San Francisquito Creek. I
do so because of Palo Alto's legendary concern for the environment writ large and the
fact that my local creek is fenced off and lined with concrete.

Thank you all!

Martin Gothberg
2159 King Ct.
Santa Clara, CA 95051




                                                     1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/21/2018 2:36 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Sue Purdy Pelosi <sueppr@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Monday, August 20, 2018 11:24 PM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        Thank you for a great decision on water rights!




Sue Purdy ☮ Pelosi

Be kind whenever possible. It is always possible.
Dalai Lama


https://www.linkedin.com/in/suepurdypelosi/




                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/21/2018 2:34 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Hank Edson <hank.edson@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Tuesday, August 21, 2018 1:59 AM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        Thank you for endorsing the Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan



Dear City Council,

Thank you for listening to feedback from your constituency asking for due process and an opportunity to be
heard on the Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan, and thank you for then listening to what people had to say
in favor of it and in opposition to the alternative plan that would only pursue the same ineffectual course taken
since 1995 during which fish populations have greatly fallen.

I believe the people of Palo Alto are committed to supporting a longterm vision that uses the sophistication of
our community to design and implement ecologically sustainable plans at every level of civic
planning. Tonight you've earned the praise of this community!

Sincerely,

Hank Edson




                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/21/2018 2:29 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Gerald Hunt <gwhunt97@comcast.net>
Sent:                         Tuesday, August 21, 2018 12:07 PM
To:                           Council, City
Subject:                      Thank You for supporting the Bay Delta Plan

Importance:                   High




                                                      1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/21/2018 2:33 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Virginia Tincher <vatincher@gmail.com>
Sent:                          Tuesday, August 21, 2018 7:11 AM
To:                            Council, City
Subject:                       Thank You for Your Support of the Bay Delta Water Quality Plan



Dear Palo Alto City Council,

Thank you for the opportunity to have a public discussion about the updates to the Bay Delta Water Quality
Plan. Thank you for your unanimous support of the California State Water Resources Control Board’s
proposed changes to the December 13, 2006 Water Quality Control Plan for the San Francisco
Bay/Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta Estuary.


Given the politicization of the plan it was impressive how you focused on the facts and the opportunity
to partially restore the ecosystem knowing we can also have a reliable water supply. It is my hope that
other cities will follow your lead.


I was also impressed by how many council members mentioned Palo Alto’s focus on using recycled
water. That will go a long way toward reducing use of potable water.



Regards,
Virginia Tincher
879 Garland Drive
Palo Alto




                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/21/2018 2:28 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Annette Isaacson <annetteisaacson@comcast.net>
Sent:                         Tuesday, August 21, 2018 2:11 PM
To:                           Council, City
Subject:                      Thank you for your thoughtful responses



Dear City Council Members,



I was at last night's City Council Meeting, and I was so impressed with how thoroughly you had
prepared for the tasks before you. Your questions and statements were so thoughtful and well
informed. Thank you for listening to all sides of the Bay Delta Plan and then for voting to send a letter
to the State Water Control Board giving them your support on the plan to protect the delta.



"This Is What Democracy Looks Like."



Sincerely,

Annette Isaacson

2550 Webster St

Palo Alto, CA 94301




                                                     1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/21/2018 2:32 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Cheryl Lilienstein <clilienstein@me.com>
Sent:                              Tuesday, August 21, 2018 9:41 AM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           Thank you


Dear City Council,
Please accept my gratitude for standing up for the wildlife, the rivers, and the beauty of California. Your vote to support
the Bay Delta Plan was the right one, and it’s particularly heartening to see a 9‐0 vote on this issue. It’s so important to
us all.
Sincerely,
Cheryl Lilienstein




                                                              1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/21/2018 2:30 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                               terryt1011@aol.com
Sent:                               Tuesday, August 21, 2018 10:13 AM
To:                                 Council, City
Subject:                            thanks for supporting a healthy Central Valley river system


Councilmembers-
thank you for doing the right thing last night. you usually do.

Terry A. Trumbull




                                                                  1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/21/2018 2:32 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Debbie Mytels <dmytels@batnet.com>
Sent:                           Tuesday, August 21, 2018 9:29 AM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        Thanks for supports By Delta Water Plan



Dear Palo Alto Council Members,

Thanks for your support of the Bay Delta Water Quality Control Plan. We who are concerned about protecting
the health of the aquatic life in the Delta ecosystem — as well as benefitting ourselves by enjoying the
wonderful water of the Tuolumne/Hetch Hetchy system — appreciate your wisdom in recognizing the
importance of the hard-won compromises in the Bay Delta Plan.

Thanks for your vote which will hopefully sway other jurisdictions to support this important plan.

— Debbie Mytels

Debbie Mytels
2824 Louis Road. Palo Alto, CA 94303
(650) 856-7580
dmytels@batnet.com
"Remembering the Future in our Actions Every Day"




                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/21/2018 2:32 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Pat Kinney <pkinney@ix.netcom.com>
Sent:                              Tuesday, August 21, 2018 8:24 AM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           Thanks for your vote last night.


Thank you so much for endorsing the Bay Area Water Quality Control Plan.
I very much appreciate your willingness to listen to the facts of the matter and vote your conscience, Patricia Kinney
Wildwood Lane




                                                            1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                                 Jeff Hoel <jeff_hoel@yahoo.com>
Sent:                                 Thursday, August 16, 2018 1:04 PM
To:                                   UAC
Cc:                                   Hoel, Jeff (external); Council, City; CAC-TACC
Subject:                              PART 1 -- TRANSCRIPT & COMMENTS -- 08-01-18 UAC meeting, Item IX.1 --
                                      transformers in UUD 15 (Greenacres I)


Commissioners,

Here's a transcript of Item IX.1 of your 08-15-18 meeting, the item that discussed refurbishing the electric distribution system in
Underground Utility District #15 (Greenacres I). The main issue was whether the transformers should be moved from underground to
above ground.

I have added my comments (paragraphs beginning with "###"). The transcript is in two parts, because of limitations of the system I'm
working on.

I don't know what advice UAC should give Council on this issue. I'm glad Greenacres I residents caused the issue to be brought to
UAC so that it can be considered as a citywide issue.


Jeff

-------------------
Jeff Hoel
731 Colorado Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94303
-------------------

#######################################################################################

08-01-18 staff report:
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/66025

08-01-18 UAC meeting video:
http://midpenmedia.org/utilities-advisory-commission-31-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2/

0:14:16:

Chair Danaher: With that, we'll turn to agenda item number 1.

0:14:23:

**: (unamplified) Can I have speaker card for number one?

0:14:25:

Chair Danaher: Yeah, I have a bunch here.

0:14:26:

**: (unamplified) OK.

0:14:29:

                                                                 1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM
Chair Danaher: All right. I'll just set the stage. Then we'll have the community comments. And staff will present.

### It's more traditional to let staff set the stage with a presentation and then have public comment.

And then we'll have the discussion. Just to set the framework, beginning -- what -- about 50 -- 45 years ago, the City
started undergrounding power lines for different neighborhoods. And so far, about 25 percent of the City has been
undergrounded. Right now. And those installations are aging. And the City's been starting to replace the transformers in
chronological order of when they were installed.

### Ideally, the staff report -- and staff presentation -- would have documented what the order is and would have given
the rationale. I had the impression that likelihood of failure in the short term was at least one significant factor. And I'd be
interested in how staff estimated these likelihoods.

So, one neighborhood's already been done. And the one that's the subject of discussion tonight is the second one. And
others will be scheduled in chronological order. When they were initially put in, in the early years, the City -- the
neighborhoods that participated paid 25 percent of the cost of the installation. In later years, the City did away with that
requirement.

### The staff report says that, in general, how much the residents of a Palo Alto neighborhood paid for undergrounding
their neighborhood depended on whether the undergrounding was deemed to be a general public interest benefit,
primarily a local benefit, or neither. It also says that for the primarily-local-benefit category, the split used to be 25/75, but
at some point became 50/50 (and it doesn't say when or why). The 09-07-11 staff report
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/30141
says the City pays for undergrounding the electric distribution system that goes down the street, but the homeowner pays
for undergrounding the service connection from the street to the home. And the homeowner is responsible for
determining the price, by hiring the contractor to do the work, so the price for each homeowner could be different.

### At some point -- maybe the next staff report -- it might be nice to document how undergrounding costs to customers
have been determined over the years, since 1965.
* for general public interest benefit / primarily local benefit / neither;
* for going down the street / service connection;
* as a fixed percentage / contracted by homeowner.

But there was this cost-share element early on. The City is going at a very SLOW pace on undergrounding the rest of the
City. Maybe one neighborhood every 3 to 5 years. I'm sure a lot of us would like that to go faster. But it's a very
expensive process.

### The 09-07-11 staff report (cited above) says, "Historically, approximately 2% of the annual electric revenue has been
used for funding an undergrounding program in an underground district, which typically takes three years to complete." In
the 10-04-95 verbatim UAC minutes, Larry Starr says, "... we spend approximately 3 percent of our gross sales every
year" on undergrounding.

### Is there a current policy about how much the City should be spending on undergrounding? And on whether re-
undergrounding costs should be included?

Staff sent us pictures of transformers on Monday. Some of us were driving around this evening looking at neighborhoods
that have then out there. So we're conscious of this. I'm also conscious of the benefit of not having the overhead lines,
which I think is lovely when you don't have that. And I'm blessed to be in a neighborhood that doesn't have those. And I
don't know when mine comes up for replacing transformers.

### If it's chronological, UUD #23 is fourth on the list.

So, those are sort of the framework for this. One thing that came up in discussion was -- since there's a big cost delta
between undergrounding and overgrounding, whether that should be treated as a cost-share. And so, if people care to,
when they make their comments, indicate if they feel their neighborhood or they would be willing to participate pro rata in
the extra cost of undergrounding. I think that would be interesting data for the commission as we discuss this report.

0:16:44:



                                                                 2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM
With that in mind -- these were handed to me in different areas. I've just shuffled them. So, if there's any particular
reason for anyone to come first, speak up. Otherwise, I'm going to start off with Nina Bell.

0:16:59:

Ed Shikada: If I might, Mr. Chair, members of the Commission, as Ms. Bell comes up to the microphone, if I could make a
comment also.

0:17:04:

Chair Danaher: Please.

0:17:04:

Ed Shikada: I definitely, on behalf of staff, would like to acknowledge the level of anxiety and somewhat unanticipated
stress that this has caused, really, to the neighborhood. And also, quite frankly, with staff. This is certainly not a project
that staff has undertaken in order to create any anxiety among residents. And, in fact, is purely a project that was
undertaken based upon staff's commitment to our mission to deliver safe, reliable, and cost-effective utility services. So,
while recognizing that -- you know, undertaken for the best of intentions, that the communication hasn't gone all that well
in some instances. And some of the interactions with some residents have gotten fairly contentious. We really wanted to
emphasize the fact that staff is not in any way attempting to do this over the objections or in -- out of any expectations
that, you know, this is something that is to be done over the -- outside of the will of the community. So, I just really wanted
to share that perspective as we get started. Once community members are able to comment, we do have a pretty
comprehensive presentation, that I think will provide some additional context and some options that could be helpful for
the Commission's discussion.

0:18:32:

Chair Danaher: All right. Thank you very much.

0:18:35:

Nina Bell Is it on? There we go. Ah, Nina Bell. And I'm the person who sent you all those photographs with all the mock-
ups. And I just want to make a correction. I think in my write-up about it, I said that I used 20-gallon cans. They were 32-
gallon cans. I just felt like I want to get it correct. And hopefully you got all the photographs. Yes? Thank you. As I was
walking in tonight, I was chatting with someone, and asked about the blue trees out front. And a word popped out from
that person, who said it was a desecration. And it really started me thinking about the word "desecration." Because after
45 years of living in this neighborhood, with fully underground utilities, people who have bought in -- some people recently
paid a million and one over the asking price -- to buy into our little neighborhood. And to have an expensive house that
you've just built, with a four-foot cube placed in front of your living room window is a desecration. And I would like to
quote the Comp Plan, that says the City strives to complement neighborhood character when installing streets or public
space improvements. And to preserve neighborhoods. The character of a neighborhood. We have lived 45 years with a
character in our neighborhood of all substructure. And I thank -- the cue into the word desecration. So -- Because it is a
desecration to our neighborhood.

### The word "desecration" connotes treating something sacred as if it were not sacred, and perhaps even causing it to
become not sacred. I don't like religious arguments. Aesthetics, reliability, safety, and cost are all important.

0:20:20:

You asked a question about are we -- would I personally be willing to pay in, to have -- And my response to that is, I want
to see the budget. I want see the accounting. I want to understand where the figures came from. So if -- We have asked
those questions before, of Mr. Shikada, and Greg McKernan. We have gotten zero answers to all our questions. So,
answer that one, and then maybe be can honestly say, yes, you know, I'll pay on the line. We need some answers,
please. So, thank you all for your time and your listening.

0:21:08:

Chair Danaher: (unamplified) Thank you ** By the way, I don't know what the numbers were communicated before **
presentation ** Jeff Hoel.
                                                               3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM

0:21:22:

Commissioner Trumbull: (unamplified) While Jeff's coming up, I just want to (amplified) reflect the Councilman Filseth is
with us.

0:21:29:

Councilmember Filseth: Apologies for being late.

0:21:30:

Chair Danaher: (unamplified) That's all right.

0:21:33:

Jeff Hoel: So, I think I will touch on matters other than aesthetics versus safety, and so forth. When I read the staff
report, I thought there were a lot of documents that were referred to that I couldn't find online. And if I had had time, I
could have come to City Hall and asked for them and had them printed out at some time and -- But I didn't do that. One
of those documents was Resolution 7580, which is the thing that Council voted on that says, heck yes, we want to put
these transformers above ground. Council did that on April 22, 1996. So I tried to find the minutes of that meeting, and I
couldn't do it. I could find the week earlier, but not this particular meeting. Also, I couldn't find the staff report. And I
couldn't find out if UAC had heard this issue before Council considered it, and, if so, when that was, and what the staff
report was, and what UAC said about it. So, all of that stuff might have been made more accessible by a more complete
staff report for tonight.

### In response to my comment, staff sent me an email with a 90-page attachment, comprising:
* the 04-22-96 staff report to Council (6 pages)
* Resolution 7580 (2 pages)
* the 10-04-95 staff report to UAC (2 pages)
* a 08-07-95 memo from Mike Beanland to Larry Starr (4 pages)
* Exhibit 1 -- a PG&E document about screening padmount transformers (12 pages)
* Exhibit 2 -- a document about equipment siting (6 pages)
* RR #1 (1 page)
* RR #1-3 (1 page)
* the 01-04-95 UAC verbatim minutes (14 pages)
* the 11-02-95 ARB verbatim minutes (14 pages)
* the 11-08-95 PTC verbatim minutes (17 pages)
* a blank page
* an environmental checklist form (10 pages)
This was very helpful. Thanks very much. But it doesn't make the information accessible to the public.

Also, I have a question. Are -- Is staff proposing to re-use the existing conduit in doing this refurbishing? You know, what
was the lifetime expectation for conduit in 1973, when they put the stuff in? What's the lifetime expectation for the conduit
now? If the conduit's going to fail before everything else, maybe you should replace the conduit now, too. But that might
involve digging stuff up. Which would be more expensive and make things uglier for a time. But if you dig stuff up, the
City is working on a "dig-once" ordinance that says every time you dig stuff up, put in conduit for fiber. Which I would
encourage you to do, if for no other reason -- I mean, suppose we never get to fiber-to-the-premises ...

0:23:41:

Chair Danaher: (unamplified) I'd have been disappointed if you (amplified) hadn't mentioned fiber. So, thank you.

0:23:43:

Jeff Hoel, Well, you're welcome. My pleasure. But SCADA for the transformers might be real interesting. Because the
claim is that the reason they fail is because, over a period of time, they run hotter than they wish they could run. And so, it
would be like -- it would be nice to be able to measure this over time. I think that's all I'll say tonight. Thanks.

0:24:09:
                                                               4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM

Chair Danaher: Thank you, Jeff. Alice Sklar.

0:24:28:

Alice Sklar: Can you hear me? My name is Alice Sklar. I live at 632 Fairmede in Greenacres. I'm also the President of
the Greenacres Improvement Association. I'm here tonight to represent myself. And when I want to speak for the
association, I'll let you know. The question about what to do about updating the utilities in Greenacres is of some urgency
because, as has already been mentioned, the utilities are over 45 years old, therefore in danger of breaking down,
causing damage, injuring citizens, as well as interrupting our service for unknown periods of time. We are therefore eager
to conclude the conversation with the commission tonight, and leave with a decision. My personal preference is for the
conclusion to be to allow the Utilities Department to restore our service, which has always been entirely underground. I'd
like to add, I was one of the families that helped pay for the undergrounding the first time around.

The Utilities Department told Greenacres I that the department needed direction from you people, the Utilities Advisory
Council [sic], since existing regulations did not allow them to place utilities entirely underground, as they had done many
years ago. So, we've waited to hear what you will suggest. Meanwhile, Greenacres residents have been meeting,
talking, and researching the issues, and coming to their own conclusions, which you will hear in no particular
order. Please be aware that the Greenacres Association Board does not necessarily endorse the opinions that are
expressed here tonight. What the GAA board wants from this evening is to have -- to leave, knowing what evidence there
is that (quote) "having our utilities fully undergrounded is dangerous to us or the community." [unquote] We understand
that there are self-imposed regulations by which the Utilities Department operates. But that is not what we are
asking. We want to know the actual science involved in the question. We want to know about safety and not
regulations. Regulations can be changed, but science can't. Please don't disappoint us.

In answer to your question about -- would I personally be willing to pay a cost-share, yes, I would. I'd like to be convinced
that that number is $3,600. But if that's what it was, I'd be happy to do that and move on. Thank you.

0:27:32:

Chair Danaher: Thank you very much. By the way, everybody's been very good about this. I am just -- That was my
clock going off. There's generally a three-minute limit. We're not going to hold fast to it, as long as we keep moving
along. But I'm keeping an eye on it, just in case. Eugene Lee.

0:27:54:

Eugene Lee: Chairman Danaher, members of the commission, my name is Eugene Lee, and I'm a resident of
Greenacres. Actually, I was here with my wife a few months ago, as well, at the meeting, to express our opinions
regarding the plan by -- that's proposed to install the padmounted equipment. You know, obviously, our community has
shared a lot of our concerns with Utilities regarding this issue. And I'm not going to rehash them, since there's a three-
minute limit. So, I figured what I'd probably do is just share a personal reason why. When I was a kid growing up in
Pacifica, you know, my brother and I played outside, in the fog. And we used to have a pole-mounted transformer, right
outside of our house. You know, on foggy days, we'd hear a lot of these little hissing noises, you know. It sounded really
fun and friendly, and very, very exciting sometimes to little kids. We were just like 5 and 6. You know. Then, in 1980, my
mother was diagnosed with cancer. Now, she underwent treatment for a number of years. And, obviously, it was a very
painful process. That was also the time when the science started the issues about EMF and what effects it could have on
human health. So, at that time, being young, we didn't get involved in that kind of issues. But my father -- my parents,
nonetheless -- You know, at that point, 1985 -- five years after my mother was diagnosed with cancer -- decided to move
to a home. And when we moved, we made sure the home did not have anything overground. Everything was
undergrounded. This was in San Francisco. We found a place. So, we lived happily afterwards. And when I got married
in 2000, my wife and I settled in Palo Alto. And one of the key criteria that we selected -- why we selected our home in
Greenacres -- was because everything, including the transformers, were underground. And so, for the last almost 18
years, we've lived happily in nirvana -- in Greenacres. And then, one day this spring, we received a letter saying, you
know, basically, there's going to be a discussion -- I think a few days afterwards, just in March -- that, you know, we'll
discuss the installation plan, you know, in August. This year. For boxes. And, as you know it, there's a box right in front
of my house.

### Later (1:33:18), we learn that staff's map of the proposed design (see page 6 of Nina Bell's message)
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/65979
was not intended to show exactly where the transformers would be located.
                                                              5
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM

### In the verbatim minutes of the 10-04-95 UAC meeting, Larry Starr says, "... all the sites are negotiated. We do not go
out there and say, you get one and you get one. There is quite a bit of flexibility as to where they go, so we try to
negotiate with the neighbors and see who has an area that would not be too objectionable." Commissioner Chandler
asks, "Do you pay for an easement?" Starr replies, "That is correct."

And, actually, one other thing I forgot to mention is that my in-laws own the home next to me. So, actually, it's right in
between our homes. And so, you know, the funny thing is that I've been Palo Alto for over 18 years. I've always
wondered -- I never knew this chamber existed until this year. And I've always wondered what it would take to get me
here. Well, the answer is, there's going to be a box, that's probably about four and a half feet wide, and very tall, and
something that creates -- cause childhood fears. It's going to be installed within 20 feet of one of our bedrooms. If the
plan is proposed. So, members of the commission, this is the reason I am here today. To share with you my personal
story. And to urge you to ask the commission -- ask the public utilities -- to please reconsider their current
proposal. Thank you.

0:30:50:

Chair Danaher: Mister Lee, thanks very much. Xiaoqian Shi. OK.

0:31:10:

Xiaoqian Shi: Hello, commissioners. My name is Xiaoqian Shi. And I live in the Greenacres area, as well. I want to say
that I feel the same -- share a sentiment -- Nina's sentiment -- although I live in the area for 10 of the years that she enjoy
for 40 years. And I feel like this plan that has been proposed is to modify my house without an agreement from me. And
also, it was not -- I was not given the compelling reason why it was done so. So it is -- if the proposal was adopted, I
would feel very violated.

As to the cost of the cost-sharing of the undergrounding of the -- keeping the transformer underground, I feel, over the
years, the City should have budgeted for maintaining the equipment underground, since it's already underground to begin
with. I think the analogy is almost like, you build a subway station, and you have to plan a budget to maintain a subway
station, instead of maintaining a bus station. And certainly not replace a subway train, at the end of 40 years, with some
above-ground buses. And I just want to share my sentiment with the commission -- commissioners. And thank you for
your attention.

0:32:27:

Chair Danaher: Mr. Shi, thank you. Garbo Lee.

0:32:48:

Garbo Lee: Good evening. My name is Garbo Lee. We're -- My husband and I -- Winston Lee -- we're slated to have
one of these lovely boxes right in front of our home. Which is actually less than 20 feet from our bedroom. So, -- but,
anyway -- so, I wanted to let you know, we paid top dollar to move into that neighborhood. Our previous home had one of
those telephone pole things, like Eugene's home had. And when we found our next home, in Greenacres, we were so
thrilled. Just like you said, you felt blessed ...

0:33:17:

Chair Danaher: Yeah.

0:33:17:

Garbo Lee: ... to have an underground utilities, we felt the same way. And we would like to maintain the current quality of
neighborhood that we have. And the current, you know, utilities plan that we have. Because, honestly, we got like a
notice the day before that, you know, there was going to be this padmount construction coming up. And then, fortunately,
our neighbors notice it. Like, oh, they're supposed to do this on Monday. What? Today is Friday. That's like two days
from now. And so, we were quite surprised to find this letter. But, anyway, so, we're very grateful to our neighbors to
have pointed it out. And since then, the core people, that are supposed to have all these 8 boxes -- or however many
there are -- and the switch boxes -- we have all come together. And we have met in my home -- in our home. Twice now,

                                                               6
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM
at least. And we've talked on other occasions. We've maintained communication about this. And we really would prefer
to stay blessed, as you have said. We really like it a lot.

And I think we -- you asked if we'd paid -- how we felt about paying. Well, I know -- I understand, Ms. Sklar said she paid
$500. But in -- There was another. We had a meeting with Mr. Shikada -- I can't remember when it was, but there was
another party there. They said, we've already paid the $500. Why are we paying again? You know, we've paid for
utilities. When we purchased the house, we -- When you buy a house in Palo Alto -- We spent years searching for the
house. And when you spend years searching for the house, not only are you spending that time searching for the house,
you're also spending top dollar to even get a house. Which we did. OK? I mean, I think everybody who buys a house in
Palo Alto does that. And when we paid for that, I think we're paying for whatever the previous owner -- they paid for that,
and that was part of our purchase price. So, when we -- when you're asking us, like, do we want to pay another
$3,500? And we pay a lot of taxes to be in Palo Alto. We're wondering, where is the money? We pay you a ton of
taxes. We've been -- I've been living in Palo Alto -- I don't know -- like 20-something years. We've paid our taxes. Why
do we need to pay to replace light substructures. I don't understand that. So, if you're going to ask, me, personally, my
family, we would prefer not to pay. And we would prefer to maintain our current quality. And, as you say, to stay
blessed. And enjoy the neighborhood, just like you have. So, thank you.

### In Palo Alto, utility costs are paid for by ratepayers, not taxpayers.

0:35:39:

Chair Danaher: Thank you. Michael Maurier.

0:35:46:

Michael Maurier: (unamplified) My card came in last. I'm happy to have others speak ...

0:35:50:

Chair Danaher: All right. Then we'll put you at the bottom of the pile. So, Frankie Farhat

0:35:55:

Frankie Farhat (unamplified) I think there are some other owners who have had boxes at their house that would like to **
first. **

0:36:04:

Chair Danaher: Well, I have cards from Yu Fang, Stuart Kreitman, Frankie Farhat, and Michael Maurier. And I think
there's one other in here. Lin Lu. Yeah. And which one are you? OK. Great. Yu Fang. OK. Great.

0:36:23:

Yu Fang: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. And the committee [sic] members. So, my name's Yu Fang. My family
live on Los Palos. In Greenacre neighborhood. So, I just want to share a few thoughts from me and my family on this
issue. And we really would like the committee [sic] to support us, to maintain the underground utility that we have. So,
about ten years ago, my family move into this neighborhood. Right? So, as you all know, the reason that we move into
that neighborhood is because, you know, it's so beautiful. It's to quiet and tranquil. And we feel really safe for the kids to
live in that neighborhood. Right? And about five years ago, our family we remodel our house. Right? As part of the
architecture review phase, the City has went through the very extensive review of the plan. And one of the very important
criteria is that we have to maintain, basically, the characteristic of the neighborhood, when we're remodelling. Right? And
we're very happy to comply with that. So, therefore, we're, honestly, very shocked when we heard that the City -- the
utility -- wants to dramatically change it. Right? By moving this utilities only above ground. Right? So therefore, that's
something that we felt very disappointed about. And we hope that that decision can be reversed. Right?

Secondly, this underground utility was installed 45 years ago. And over that period of time, it has operated without any
major incidents. Right?

### Perhaps there were no major incidents in Greenacres I (UUD #15), but there were incidents elsewhere in the City.

                                                               7
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM
So, we are -- And, also, we are in this new age where you have subways everywhere. Right? So, we're wondering why
suddenly there's a reason that we have to move everything above ground. The technology has evolved so much that
something that we can do 45 years ago, why we cannot do it today? Right?

### What staff would probably say is that, in hindsight, the City didn't have the technology to implement an all-
underground electric distribution system that was safe enough, reliable enough, and cost-effective enough.

So, we've felt that there's no strong reason to move it. Or change it. Right? There should be a way to preserve what it
is. If we can do it 45 years ago.

So, lastly, just about the procedural side. As some of the neighborhood mentioned earlier, that, you know, about two days
ago, we got informed that the utility wants to make this change. And they're going to start the work. Which is absolutely a
shock to all of us. Right? So, in the last couple months, we have some dialog with the utilities. And we were promised
that this is not something that will be forced upon us. There is going to be discussion. There is going to be
dialog. However, when we see the report, we didn't find any representation of what we are thinking, in that report. And
what our opinions are, in that report. And we also have not received any real data to back up the recommendation from
that report. Right? So, therefore, because of that, I think, you know, we are all very united to -- on this issue. And we
really hope that the committee will support us on this. Thanks very much.

0:39:23:

Chair Danaher: All right, Mr. Fang. Thank you very much. Let's see. Lin Liu. Is it OK now? Oops.

0:39:38:

Lin Liu: Thank you. My name is Lin Liu. I moved to Palo Alto a few years ago. Moving to Palo Alto is definitely a dream
come true for me, my family, my children. We love the City, love the neighborhood, love the street view. Basically
everything. So, when we heard about the project, we were very concerned. So we wrote a lot of letters. We met -- tried
to meet -- in person with the City, to express our concerns. We ask questions. We would like to see some data
analysis. I was in those meetings, and we were promised that the City won't force it on us. But from the proposal as it is,
that's what -- the City is just doing that. So I'm very surprised, and very disappointed. So -- And, also, none of the
questions have been answered. We haven't seen any research, any data -- You know, just --We have their safety
concern, just to name one. You know, it's -- We all have children. We are next door to Terman Middle School. The
marching band march in our street all the time, you know. It's just a lot of things. Just --

In terms of the costs, I literally paid millions to buy the house and rebuild the house. I don't think it's fair for me to pay
before the questions we ask got answered. Then I cannot answer that question. I don't know what I'm paying for. I think
the City should have budget to cover this, you know. Again, you know, I would like those questions we asked to be
answered before we answer that question. Better understand what we are paying for. Why we need to pay for
that. Thank you.

0:41:23:

Chair Danaher: All right. Ms. Liu, thank you very much. Stuart Kreitman. OK. Great.

0:41:39:

Stuart Kreitman: Give me a second. Good evening, commission. My name is Stuart Kreitman. Resident of Greenacres
since 1991. I'm trying to be neutral and objective about this issue. As an engineer, I defer to the experts in the matter --
the power engineers. But I would like to be able to correlate the documents I'm reading for accuracy. And we received a
letter from Ed Shikada about a week ago. And there's a cons- -- Backtrack a little bit. There is a recurring theme here
that the neighborhood -- the neighbors are not getting their questions answered, or not getting a clear understanding of
issues of safety, or capacity. You know what the technical aspects of this decision are. They're also not getting a firm
understanding of the costs involved. Whether it's their obligation to pay. That -- those sorts of things. So, I read Ed
Shikada's letter pretty carefully. And I read the documents -- the -- I forget what "RR" -- I was abbreviating myself. But I
read the resolution 7580 and the RRs from 1 to 20. And there -- I would like to assure that future conversations about
this are done with the i's dotted and the t's crossed. One small example of a potential disagreement or inaccuracy that I'll
give you is a reference to a special facilities fee in Ed's report, on page 5. In RR20.J.1, I read, "Special Facilities are
facilities requested ..." blah, blah, blah "... by an Applicant ..."

                                                               8
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM
### RR20:
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/8208

Just to be brief, "Special Facilities" do not refer to transformers or infrastructure that is shared by people. "Special
Facilities" refers to utility point of entry, at a person's house. So, it doesn't seem like raising that is -- that dot connects to
the cost of transformers. Basically, in a conversation longer than three minutes, we could discuss how accurate the
information given to us is. And I would like to just hone it so that the things that are said verbally correlate precisely to the
things that are written. That's it. Thanks.

0:44:45:

Chair Danaher: All right. Mr. Kreitman, thank you. Frankie Farhat.

0:44:57:

Frankie Farhat: Hello. To members of the commission. My name is Frankie Farhat, and I'm a resident of Greenacres
I. Although no transformer is supposed to be installed in front of my house, I'm very concerned by this project, as some of
you already know. And I'd like to propose maybe a solution, to reduce the friction between the City and the Utility
Department and our neighborhood. Nina mentioned that we fully embrace the Comp Plan. I don't think I need to state it,
but, basically, you are trying to provide us with functionality, capacity, and at the same time, you're also considering the
beauty of our environment, and the character of the neighborhood. And this is all great. And we also appreciate the
proactiveness that the Utility Department is showing by considering our neighborhood. However, I would like everybody -
- I think you understand by now, but our neighborhood is very different from most neighborhoods in Palo Alto. Most
neighborhoods have poles, they have wires, they have cables that go through trees. They have all kinds of issues. And,
certainly, those kinds of improvements that you're trying to bring to the City would be great improvements, from a
functional standpoint, as well as an aesthetic standpoint. We at Greenacres I are totally different. We don't have poles,
we don't have lines between the trees. We are happy. And the -- we have the capacity that we need. So far. We don't
have any reliability problems. I mean, it's almost paradise for us. So, any change that would be implemented on us --
especially those that have been presented to us in documents -- would be negative. It would be a drawback, compared to
where we are. And so, what I would like to say is that let's not rush things. Don't -- Thank you very much for putting
Greenacres I at the top of your list in your heart. But -- You know, we are very honored of being there. But I'd like to take
a step back. We would prefer to see our upgrades implemented in some other neighborhoods before us. Neighborhoods
that would be able to benefit from the functional improvement and the aesthetics improvement. In the meantime, let's
wait. Put us back a little bit on the list. Give us some time to maybe get together so that we can find funding, one way or
another, to keep everything underground. Or maybe find us some time to look into some points that seem very important
to me. Points that were brought up by Stuart Kreitman and by Joel Hoel, if I'm not mistaken. I have not -- mispronouncing
his name.

### Jeff Hoel.

And get answers to many of the questions that have been raised today. So, thank you for putting us at the top of your
list. But let's take a step back. Let's find something that may work better for everybody. Thank you very much.

0:47:52:

Chair Danaher: All right. Thank you, Ms. Farhat. All right. Michael Maurier.

0:48:04:

Michael Maurier: Good evening, folks. I'm having a terrible time hearing, because I'm partly deaf. So, if you'd speak up a
bit. I'm Mike Maurier. I live at 646 Fairmede. The 27- or 30-page letter that you got

### The letter is available here (pages 2-31).
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/65979

was largely my fault, and I apologize for it. I hope you did read it. But I apologize if you did -- waded all the way through
it.

0:48:22:

                                                                 9
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM
Chair Danaher: It's in our packet **

0:48:22:

Michael Maurier: This is an odd one. Our little neighborhood is know as Fort Apache, in my own mind. If we don't have
something going on Arastradero, we have something in the creek. If it isn't the creek, it's Terman. If it isn't Terman, it's
the hotel. You know, the Apache circle us rather regularly, and we've been through several little outings. Some ended
well, some ended poorly. This one was a surprise, however. I don't think I've seen one that was as suddenly and
abruptly presented as this one -- let's put it that way. And it was a deep shock. In all the years I've been in various
aspects of government and consulting service, I've never seen anything communicated like this. Or, frankly, as
poorly. This -- That is a double shock. To date, pretty much, all of that served to encourage the waiverers, had they any
questions or doubt over trying to be fair or rational about the possibility of there being anything wrong with a problem they
didn't see. Because that has pretty well consolidated in the -- I wouldn't say unanimous. I got in trouble for saying that
once. Not unanimous. There's always a few. But really overwhelming opposition to this. Mostly because we didn't get
information, or questions answered in anything approximating a timely manner. At any stage of the proceedings. In fact,
it got worse, to the point that my confidence, at least, in what I was hearing in the information simply dwindled to
zero. And I think that has been shared by everybody.

0:50:09:

Were I -- There were several questions that didn't get answered, and one of which was, why us? We -- We don't have a
problem. How come we're first on the list? Everything's already underground. And I thought that was the general trend,
from what I've been reading, in the City. To underground or otherwise beautify, or whatever. Ultimately, what I came up
with is my rationale, in the absence of any other input was, maybe it's just convenience -- easier to drive it up in a truck,
rather than lift the grate and blow the leaves out. You know, they're opening gratings, and they got leaves in there. And
have a look, and shut up, and go off. Unfortunately, that didn't really take any of our considerations into account. That
might have been convenience. We really didn't hear any other rationale for the whole business, at any stage of the
proceedings. And pretty soon, we gave up trying, and went to the UAC. It seems to me that this whole proposal, which
came out of left field, and still hasn't been rationalized in any manner, shape, or form to anybody's satisfaction that I've
heard, basically flies in the face of the Comprehensive Plan impetus to preserve the neighborhood character. Our
neighborhood character depends practically -- wholly -- our little ranch houses -- depend on undergrounded
utilities. That's it. That's all we've got. Otherwise, we've just have a bunch of little ranch houses on the south side of
Arastradero. When that goes, urban blight and ranch houses. So this kind of struck at the nature of our identity. And the
intent of the Comprehensive Plan to preserve the character and integrity of the neighborhood, I thought. What we didn't
get at any stage of the proceedings, in the way this has all gone down, is any indication of any flexibility, unless we fought
very hard and complained vigorously. We're hoping you'll show more flexibility with respect to this particular
neighborhood. We don't know why we're on the list.

0:52:05:

Were it I, I would look for one of three outcomes, as a way we can all back off from this.

* Take us off the list. Until we have a problem, just take us off the list. I don't get the sensation from the Utilities
Department that's probably going to be something they'd be very thrilled with.

* The second option might be, take us off the list until you can find a way to pay for it. The question of paying for it came
up this evening. And my answer would be, we have received no cost justification for the numbers we have seen. There
has been no breakdown, no discussion. We just -- We're presented with a number, out of the air. Under duress, when it
became apparent that maybe -- We were initially told, we can't replace these things underground. It has to be above
ground. That's it. One size fits all. We're outta here. Then it developed, well, maybe if we paid for it, maybe we could do
that. But it was going to cost us. 3,500 bucks a house was the number we heard ** about. But from where? Never
heard anything. So, we -- I'd be very reluctant to pay for it. I'm capable of paying for it. Might be willing to pay for it, if I
see any justification.

* The third option, then, might be, take us off the list until we can figure out a way to pay for it. I've heard nobody, other
than the -- a few possible suggestions from budgeting people, saying, if we have to pay something, AGAIN -- which goes
against the grain of those who paid initially, and already purchased this -- and those of us who paid for it in the cost of the
homes we purchased -- if we have to pay for it again, how could we do it creatively and avoid a cash flow hit of a $3,500
lump sum? That feels to me a lot like an attempt to divide. Not everybody in our neighborhood, despite the myth ...

                                                                10
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM
0:53:55:

Chair Danaher: You're well over the three minutes. So, keep on, but wrap it up soon, if you ...

0:53:59:

Michael Maurier: Yeah. Not everybody is going to be able to pay $3,500 as a lump sum. Over time, stretched out over a
considerable distance, if we arrive at a figure that anybody believes, I think a number of people in the neighborhood would
pay it. But as things stand, would you pay? For a pig in a poke? We have no idea what we're paying for.

So, that would be the issue of paying. I hope that the third way out of this morass is to take us off until we have had a
series of discussions and negotiations -- with credible parties, one would hope -- and we can find a way out of it. And I
hope you will be flexible enough to embrace one of those three options: * Take us off the list, * Take us off the list until
you can find a way to pay for it, or * Take us off the list until we get some answers. And we have had none. Thank you.

0:54:49:

Chair Danaher: All right. Thank you, Mr. Maurier. And we had one last one that came in from Debbie Chausow.

0:55:02:

Debbie Chausow: I'm not good at speaking. My name's Debbie Chausow. And I lived -- can you hear me?

0:55:05:

Chair Danaher: Yes. Yes.. You can pull the mike down a little bit.

0:55:08:

Debbie Chausow: Oh, here it is. Um, I've lived -- We bought into Greenacres I in 1986, I think. Have raised our kids
there. So, I'll try and get this all in quickly. Give some time back to Michael, who -- I appreciate what everybody
said. But Michael, you were really -- I can't find you -- I think he spoke to a lot of things impressively. OK? My
background: I'm an epidemiologist. I have worked at the Electric Power Research Institute. I don't know generation,
storage, or even modern technology, so I do want to say that. However, I worked in health effects. OK? So, what we are
is a living, historical cohort. As if a study were conducted. We have 45 years that show no neighbor health effects. When
we first met with Mr. Shikada -- thank you for your time -- at Alice Sklar's house, we asked, has any employee been
hurt? And you guys said no. We've also had incredible service, thanks to the utilities. And we've had unbelievable
equipment durability. OK? So, I'll stop with that point. We have -- A neighbor and I walked down Donald, which -- it's
Greenacres II -- and they have padmounts. And I saw a very big warning label -- sign -- on the front of it that says, danger
-- I don't know -- get off, keep off. And it has a stick figure being electrocuted, falling off a stair. OK? And then there's
something else, keep out, a separate sign. So ...

0:57:07:

Chair Danaher: I drove down Donald this evening. I missed that one. Yeah.

0:57:10:

Debbie Chausow: OK. It's 4177 Donald. OK? If you want to write that down. OK. So, in terms of safety, you want a
comparison. So, we've got 45 years of safety. And, as far as I can tell -- and I did ask the utilities staff -- there's no data
on the safety of padmount transformers. OK? I couldn't find any. Maybe I didn't search the right journals. OK? But I
found no information. OK? Next, we just got the conclusion from Cal Fire, in terms of, I think, the 11-12 fires in the North
Bay. And they found PG&E extremely -- highly, whatever -- financially liable and potentially criminally liable for violations,
and for vegetation growth. And I guess it was the pole and wire type of electric power delivery. OK? So, it got me
thinking. I mean, we're all at risk of fire. I think fire has replaced earthquakes as the number one fear, in natural
disasters. Or unnatural. It just makes sense that the safest type of location of a transformer is underground. OK? I'm not
-- I don't believe, in these kind of fires, that a padmount would be any safer than a pole and elevated
transformer. OK? I'm sorry.

### This article identifies the cause of five fires involving PG&E equipment.
                                                              11
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM
https://sf.curbed.com/2018/6/8/17443508/santa-rose-napa-fire-wildfire-pge-report-findings
Trees touching power lines mostly. I don't see how that could happen in Greenacres I with underground power lines,
even if transformers were above-ground.

0:58:59:

All right. You're well over the three-minutes.

0:59:00:

Debbie Chausow: Oh. I'll stop.

0:59:00:

Chair Danaher: So, bring things -- you can finish up. But, ...

0:59:02:

Debbie Chausow: OK. We pretty recently learned that there are 17 other districts, or neighborhoods, that apparently
have underground utilities, and are slated for padmount. So, my question to the staff is, are they apprised of the
padmounts? I mean, do -- You know, it was way too late for us to even try and communicate with them. We don't know
who they are. But we were told that what happens for us will happen for them. And I -- you know, it's too late to -- we
can't communicate with them. And that's my only question. Other than that -- Ed -- and Greg's here. And we've
appreciated you guys. You've had grace, in terms of all the questions we've put at you. And we don't -- as far as paying -
- I'd be willing, once I see a cost analysis. OK.

1:00:03:

Chair Danaher: OK. Great. Ms. Chaseau, thank you very much. All right. We've heard from everybody in Fort Apache, I
think. So, delighted. I really appreciate all that. And also, although people feel emotional about this, everybody's been so
courteous. I really appreciate that as well. Ed, why don't we let your group present. And then we'll have time for
discussion.

1:00:28:

Ed Shikada: Great. Well, let's get to it, and lead off with Debbie Lloyd, our acting assistant director for
engineering. Would be followed by Greg McKernan, our senior engineer involved.

1:00:42:

Debbie Lloyd: Good evening, Chair and commissioners. Vice Mayor. OK, so I'm going to start off our presentation
here. And Greg and I are just going to kind of tag team. Because when we start talking about the engineering stuff, I'll let
him take over. So, I'll take it from here.

So, the outline of what we're going to talk to you -- I'll show you this evening. We'll do some history of the underground
districts, and -- including Greenacres. Just walk through some of the current status of undergrounding in the City. And,
again, in Greenacres. We'll talk about our current design practices and standards, and explain some of the reasoning
behind those standards. There is, you know, an alternative, that we can think of here, that would take a policy
change. And, also, we've got just some basic numbers on cost comparison. We've heard a lot about wanting the
breakdown. But, at this point, we don't have designs. So, we were just trying to get rough estimates. And, of course,
those estimates will depend on, you know, what the construction costs are when we finally get there.

1:02:00:

So, something about the history. Chair Danaher gave some kind of background at the start here.

### The presentation slide shows a map of the City's underground districts, also available here (page 4).
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/50531


                                                              12
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM
But the project actually started in 1965. So it has been going on for quite some time. We currently have 43 underground
districts completed. Since '65. the latest one is actually #46. We've kind of skipped some order in the last few
projects. So they don't always -- things don't always go kind of timely -- that they go in chronological order of their
numbering. We are currently waiting for a few customers to finish their connections for District #47. And we've just
started construction on District #46. The undergrounding also includes all the electric, fiber, cable, and telephone
systems. And to do this, we coordinate jointly with AT&T and Comcast. So, that coordination with outside utilities is kind
of like some of the reasons that we might have delays. They also participate in the cost for that.

### Not always. This 01-13-16 staff report says,
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/50531
"The underground tariff under which AT&T operates, California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) Rule 32 (A)1, does
not require AT&T to pay for telephone substructure work in most residential neighborhoods." Also,"In the past, AT&T
funded its substructures in a small number of residential areas even though AT&T was not strictly required to under the
tariff. However, AT&T has indicated in discussions with Staff that it will strictly follow the tariff in all future undergrounding
projects."

And it is still funded jointly between the utilities and property owners. So, property owners do pay for their own
underground connection costs. And then, depending on how the district is formed, they may share the cost of the --
undergrounding the system also. Still.

1:03:32:

Commissioner Forssell: Sorry to interrupt, but can you give us some sense of the cost associated in -- with -- when a
district is undergrounded today? What it costs the residents for each of the items?

1:03:44:

Debbie Lloyd: Um, I'm trying to think. #47, I think they were around $4,000.

1:03:47:

Greg McKernan: (unamplified) Between $3,000 and $5,000.

1:03:48:

Debbie Lloyd: Between $3,000 and $5,000 for the customer's service connection.

### In this 04-16-12 FAQ, the City says,
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/gov/depts/utl/projects/faq/electric.asp
"... the homeowner can spend from $3,000 to $8,000, or more in some cases, to make their home ready for underground
service. The actual cost a homeowner incurs is due to a variety of factors such as the distance from the City's electrical
service box in the sidewalk or street to the homeowner's meter panel, whether the trenching work is under a paved
walkway or driveway versus in the lawn, the variations in price provided in written bids from licensed electricians or
contractors, and which installer is selected by the homeowner."

1:03:56:

Commissioner Forssell: And then possibly additional for the ...

1:04:00:

Debbie Lloyd: Oh. Yeah. Actually, I don't know. Do you know the budget for the -- #47? It was in the area -- It would
depend on -- I mean, it would be a -- Well, take it back. So, for #47, there was no other cost associated to the
customers, to the residents.

1:04:19:

Commissioner Forssell: But that's on the order of $4,000 per resident, all in -- to take the wires that were previously up on
poles, dig out ...

                                                                13
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM
1:04:27:

Debbie Lloyd: No, no, no.

1:04:27:

Commissioner Forssell: ... putting everything underground. No?

1:04:28:

Debbie Lloyd: No. That $3,000 to $5,000 is just for their service connection. From the utility system to their property.

1:04:39:

Commissioner Forssell: And they don't share -- Sorry. And they don't share in the cost of digging up the street and
putting the poles underground? The wires that were previously on poles underground?

1:04:48:

Debbie Lloyd: Not for #47.

1:04:50:

Commissioner Forssell: OK.

1:04:50:

Debbie Lloyd: If we had another district like Greenacres, where it was deemed to be not of wide public benefit but local
benefit, then there would be some cost sharing for the actual undergrounding of the system.

So, we are -- we touched on that. So with Greenacres. So, this was one of those districts that was petitioned by the
residents back in January 1972. And at that time -- So we can see what's happened with the costs. It was around $300
for their service connection. And their share, which was 25 percent of the cost, was $310 per lot. So that was the -- the
25 percent of the, you know, of full cost of -- the actual utility undergrounding portion -- 25 percent assigned to the
residents. And at that time, our crews did the construction. And, as everyone has pointed out, they still have that original
equipment there. And it has been working for the past 45 years.

### According to this inflation calculator, $610 in 1973 is equivalent to $3,677.35 in 2018.
http://www.in2013dollars.com/1973-dollars-in-2018?amount=100

1:06:16:

So, where are we on the status of undergrounding? So, I hear a lot of numbers around, that the City is 20 percent
undergrounded, or 25 percent, or 50. Um, it really depends on, you know, what you're looking at. So, if you look at the -
- If you look at our distribution lines -- so, our primary distribution lines -- we're actually just over 60 percent of the City's
primary distribution lines is undergrounded. And that is mostly -- the majority of that is in commercial areas -- commercial
districts of the City. Approximately 2,500 residences are in districts or areas that are undergrounded. And so, they went
from the conversion from the overhead to the underground system. And, going -- moving forward, all new developments -
- so, all new housing subdevelopments or subdevelopments will be built with the underground utilities. That leaves about
14,000 homes -- residences -- in Palo Alto that are still -- that remain to be undergrounded. So they're still served by the
overhead lines. And they have the poles and the wires in their neighborhoods. So, I think -- I hope that kind of helps with
-- is it 50 percent or 25 percent? It's a much smaller percentage if you just look at it about residences that are served by
an underground system.

1:07:54:

Commissioner Johnston: (unamplified) Could I ask a question? (amplified) When you do new construction -- and you
say it's underground -- the deal is, you put underground with new construction -- are the transformers padmounted in that
situation, or are the transformers also underground?

                                                                14
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM
1:08:10:

Debbie Lloyd: They're padmounted. Unless -- unless it's, you know, just infeasible. Which -- I don't think for residential
areas we've -- Have we ever had an issue where we needed to -- Yeah. So, in some of the really built-up commercial
areas, there might just be no physical space to have a padmount.

1:08:35:

Commissioner Ballantine: In the commercial areas, though, you have like a fully solid concrete vault, generally,
right? When you go underground?

1:08:45:

Greg McKernan: Chairperson, when we do our underground design for our distribution system, there's the conductors,
which carry the power to the transformers. The transformers are padmounted. Yet we still have vaults, that allow us to
splice the cable, and make the -- pull the cable, and splice it. So that's what we use.

1:09:03:

Commissioner Ballantine: Yeah. I think I -- Just sort of thinking of it from the point of view of the -- of the large number of
people here tonight, and eleven that spoke to us. If I'm trying to imagine why -- why I ought to take on board that in a
densely-situated commercial instance, you might put a transformer underground, and yet, in all the other residential
instances, and most of the commercial ones, you put them above ground. What I've encountered in modern commercial
construction is, it is a VERY significant concrete vault, where you do elect to install a transformer. One that could be
significantly larger than anything we've seen in any picture here tonight. And so, I'm wondering if - When you've put
transformers underground in commercial buildings, whether that's where you've elected to do it, and how that's ended up
being permitted. Or whether, yeah, you've snuck some transformers into smaller vaults on an exception basis.

1:10:07:

Dean Batchelor: So, I think the thing is that -- your point is well taken -- is that if it goes to an existing like -- say like out
to the Research Park. All right? So, we're going to take that for instance. There's property out there that we're going to
put a padmounted transformer -- a large one -- in place. And then we'll underground it going into whereever the demarc is
to the building. Now, we take the downtown area, where we don't have that space, then, at that point, there's nothing we
can do except put it in a large vault that's going to be undergrounded, in the street, then, at that point. They're fully
concreted, at that point.

1:10:38:

Commissioner Ballantine: Right. And I think it might be helpful for everyone to understand how big those vaults can
be. In terms of a -- Because we've talked a lot about where has the world come to in 2018. Those vaults, in my mind,
are much bigger than they used to be, to help address a number of safety concerns around access.

1:10:59:

Dean Batchelor: Yeah. Those vaults are sometimes 6 by 4. Six feet by four feet. We also have larger ones out
there. We've got switches AND transformers. That could be probably anywhere -- 8 to 10 feet?

1:11:10:

Greg McKernan: (unamplified) 10 **.

1:11:10:

10 by 13? So, yeah, you're talking -- as -- you know, a large room, then, at that point, in the downtown areas.

1:11:24:

Debbie Lloyd: So, going back to the Greenacres area. So, that was installed -- Or, our equipment there was installed in
1972-'73. So that is 45-year-old infrastructure. Our expected life for the infrastructure that is in the ground there is 35 to
                                                                15
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM
40 years for the cable and 15 years for the transformers. So we are, you know, quite a way past the expected life in this
community. We understand that they have not had issues and outages yet. But that's not -- I mean, we run our system --
we manage our system -- we design it -- to replace before failure. So, we don't wait for things to start failing before we
replace them. We do it based on expected life, experiences with similar equipment in similar areas, to give, you know,
priority when we see we have old equipment -- assets -- out in the system. Generally, what engineering experience is the
-- Sorry, did you have a question?

1:12:41:

Commissioner Ballantine: Well, I -- I think -- I don't know if it's better to sort of interrupt as we go, or whether I ...

1:12:48:

Chair Ballantine: (unamplified) That would be fine.

1:12:48:

Commissioner Ballantine: But I think, again, I just ticked off points where I think some of the questions I can relate
significantly to, that I'd be asking as well. Like, well, my transformer's made it 45 years. What's the problem? Let's go for
60.

1:13:03:

Debbie Lloyd: Um hum.

1:13:04:

Commissioner Ballantine: And so, maybe some things that might be available are -- What's the average lifetime of an
underground transformer, compared to the average lifetime of a padmounted or a pole-mounted transformer?

For what it's worth, the transformer in my back yard, up on a pole, very clearly got very hot once. As -- you know, things
that have gotten hot that are metal -- we all know what they look like. Transformer failures aren't any fun. Now, I'll wait --
I have a few thoughts to share about that a little later. But, related to that, it might also be important to think about: are
transformer lifetimes and failures proportional to the load, or how hard we make them work? I'm pretty sure that it is. And
I think that a problem we all have to think about is, as we add EVs in our neighborhoods -- because we all are, here and
there -- we're increasing the loads on all those transformers. And so, it could be that our statistics on transformer lifetime
today will not represent our statistics on lifetime on transformers in a fairly short amount of time.

1:14:21:

Debbie Lloyd: Correct. And, absolutely, on the loading as well, which probably explains why this equipment has lasted as
long as it has in this neighborhood. It hasn't been fully-loaded, or highly-loaded at all.

### In principle, the City has billing data about how heavily loaded each transformer was, averaged over each
month. Does the City use this data? After the City implements smart meters, it will, in principle, have data about how
heavily loaded each transformer is, averaged over each sampling interval, which could be every 15 minutes, or even more
frequently. Should the City be planning to use this data?

And so, going back -- yeah -- so -- I mean, we can't say when it's going to fail. I mean, that's the thing we're talking about
-- probabilities -- here. And all we know is that the longer past you go -- the longer you are past the expected life, the --
you know, the probability of failure increases. And experience -- engineering experience -- is when you start to get
equipment failure, it's not going to be like a one occurrence. There will start to be many occurrences. So, it -- you know,
it's -- That's just what we try to prevent from happening.

1:15:17:

Commissioner Ballantine: But do you have a -- I think we've talked before about -- The ones mounted above ground last
-- I think we had it in an old report, maybe six months ago, where you had some nice numbers on -- A pole-mounted
transformer, typically -- you know, an average lifetime will be 50 years. An underground transformer, an average lifetime
would be 15 years. And I forget the exact numbers.
                                                                 16
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM

### There was a 04-12-18 staff report about transformers, but I don't think it talked about transformer lifetimes.
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/64445
The 08-01-18 staff report says, "The expected longevity for subsurface equipment is approximately 15 years for
transformers, and 35-40 years for high-voltage cable."
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/66025
(This staff report used to be 6 pages, but it has recently acquired the staff presentation (most of it), so now it's 14 pages.)

### In the verbatim minutes of the 11-02-95 ARB meeting, Larry Starr says, "The connectors and actual equipment itself
that we have been placing in vaults in the underground system have not lasted the 30 years that they should have. We
are getting a little more than 20 years out of some of them, ..." Here, he doesn't say what the expected life of above-
ground transformers should be.

But I remember we had those in one of our reports. I think that would be a very useful set of data. Because I think that if
it is the case -- The Greenacres transformers have lasted longer because the load in that neighborhood happens to be a
little on the light side, relative to the capability of those transformers. If they were up on poles, and they were the same
size, they would last even longer. And maybe what happened, if we go back and look at the engineering drawings, is --
maybe the ones we put underground were really big. And then, it just so happened that those vaults never flooded
out. And so they've never failed. But I think that -- I think that might be a nice set of data. Maybe that's a -- like, might
take a little time to kind of pull it forward. But I remember we had some nice numbers maybe six months ago.

1:16:35:

Debbie Lloyd: Yeah. And I do believe that was in the presentation that we did for the community. Do we have that
table? I think we have that table.you're referring to, that does the comparison of underground, padmounted, and pole-
mounted.

1:16:49:

Commissioner Ballantine: Right.

1:16:51:

Debbie Lloyd: So, yeah, we could definitely share that again.

Just to pull this back up to the system, again. This actually is not the first underground district that we have rebuilt. We've
rebuilt many of them over the years. We actually started this back in 1995, with the Old Adobe / Old Trace area.

### In UUD #7.

So we have been replacing underground districts. And I think the most comparable to District #15 would be Districts #6
and #7, which were also residen- -- primarily residential, and went from the all-underground equipment to the
padmounted. So, when -- you know, it's -- we have been doing this. This may feel like it's something quite new. But
we've been doing it since '95.

1:17:50:

Commissioner Johnston: But could I just ask, how many of the underground utilities districts have you rebuilt at this
point?

1:18:00:

Debbie Lloyd: So, I think it's the two that are just primarily residential. We've done a lot more of the commercial
rebuilds. I would say we've actually been collecting this data together, but I would say we've got at least a dozen.

1:18:17:

Commissioner Johnston: OK. But you say there are two that are primarily residential. #6 and #7.

1:18:23:
                                                               17
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM

Debbie Lloyd: Yes.

1:18:24:

Commissioner Johnston: Just where are those, generally?

1:18:25:

Debbie Lloyd: #6 and -- Actually, you can go back to -- yeah -- Oh, sorry, I was coming up to it. Yeah. [displays slide of
the underground districts] Can we spot -- So, #6 is close to District #15. You can see it just in the lower ... Oh. #7's not
on this map.

1:18:59:

Commissioner Johnston: I'm sorry. Where -- I didn't see #6.

1:19:01:

Debbie Lloyd: So, #6 is ...

1:19:03:

Commissioner Johnston: OK, I see ...

1:19:04:

Debbie Lloyd: So, right in the bottom, right-hand corner, there's #16.

1:19:07:

Commissioner Johnston: OK.

1:19:07:

Debbie Lloyd: And then - is that #6 or #4? #6. I cannot -- #7's not on this map.

1:19:13:

Commissioner Johnston: So, it ...

1:19:13:

Debbie Lloyd: It's a little bit further south.

1:19:16:

Commissioner Johnston: And did I understand you correctly to say that in all of the rebuilds, you put the transformers --
they're padmounted? They're -- none of them were replaced with ...

1:19:29:

Debbie Lloyd: In some of the COMMERCIAL districts, where it was not possible -- there was no space available for
padmounted, we may have replaced them with -- Yeah.

1:19:40:

Commissioner Johnston: But everything else had been padmounted.

1:19:42:
                                                             18
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM

Debbie Lloyd: Yes.

1:19:44:

Commissioner Forssell: But just to belabor the point a little bit longer. In District #6, which is -- um --

1:19;51:

Ed Shikada: That's Douglas, where you visited earlier tonight. Or, those of you who did.

1:19:55:

Commissioner Forssell: OK. And ...

1:19:56:

**: Donald.

1:19:58:

Ed Shikada: Donald. Sorry. Donald.

1:19:58:

Commissioner Forssell: ... they went from having subsurface-mounted transformers to padmounted transformers. And
when did that happen?

1:20:06:

Ed Shikada: Several years ago.

1:20:08:

Commissioner Forssell: Several years ago?

1:20:09:

Debbie Lloyd: Ah. Sorry District #6 was -- Well, I've got 2003, but they're saying 2001.

1:20:16:

Commissioner Forssell: Oh. So, quite some time ago.

1:20:17:

Debbie Lloyd: Yes.

1:20:18:

Commissioner Forssell: OK. And when that happened, there -- was there similar controversy, or -- Does anybody here
...

1:29:29:

Ed Shikada: I don't think any of us were around at the time.

1:20:32:

Commissioner Forssell: OK. And was the number of pads required similar.
                                                               19
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM

1:20:38:

Ed Shikada: I'm sure it must have been.

1:20:40:

Commissioner Forssell: Right. Because for Greenacres, it was like 8 pads for approximately 140 houses, if I have that
right.

1:20:45:

Debbie Lloyd: I don't have the numbers for -- But it looks -- I mean, just looking in the area, it looks like a similar size
area.

1:20:52:

Commissioner Forssell: OK. And the technology hasn't changed enough that the configuration would be significantly
different between now and 2001 or 2003 -- whenever it was?

1:21:01:

Ed Shikada: Correct.

1:21:03:

Chair Danaher: (unamplified) So, the pad it sits on ** tonight seems smaller than you described. What are the
dimensions? ** I don't want to ** The question I want to get ** What are the dimension of the smaller **?

1:21:19:

Debbie Lloyd: We can ...

1:21:20:

[multiple speakers]

1:21:22:

Ed Shikada: We'll get into it, certainly.

1:21:23:

Debbie Lloyd: We can get into it. Um. Remind me if we don't cover that exactly. Um. So, let's see. I -- sorry -- jumped
over here. So, this was just to give you -- So, as we've said, there have been rebuilds going on, including a couple in
residential areas. Coming up, we've identified thirteen districts for rebuilds.

### A presentation slide identifies them as UUDs #15, #16, #20, #23, #24, #26, #28, #29, #30, #31, #32, #33, and
#34. (But this presentation slide was not among those that were recently added to the 08-01-18 staff report.)

Now, obviously, you know, in a few years time, there will be more coming up. But these are, basically, the districts -- the
remaining districts that will reach end-of-life of the equipment by 2024. That represents about 1,700 properties, many of
which are residential, but some commercial and multi-residential buildings as well. And about 270 transformers that will
be replaced. We've identified seven districts in our current five-year CIP. And that's about 860 properties, again, primarily
residential, and 120 subsurface transformers. And we currently have five that are in design, which includes District
#15. So, we've got #15, #16, #20, #23, and #30. #30's kind of like jumping ahead a little bit, because in this area we're
also doing a 4- to 12-volt conversion.

### No doubt, a 4- to 12-kilovolt conversion.

                                                               20
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM
So it makes sense to put that work together. So, those five that we have in design -- we're looking around 785 properties,
and about 100 subsurface transformers to be replaced. With that, I will turn it over to Greg.

1:23:20:

Greg McKernan: Thank you. So, when we put together a design, our design for a new or rebuild of underground districts,
we look at a couple key features. Number one is safety. Employee safety is one of the one things we look at very
importantly, for our operations group. Safety comes into play when we have working clearances on subsurface -- or
below-ground -- equipment. Some of the boxes are 4 by 6 [feet]. We have high-voltage cable in there. And to operate
those, our crews use hot sticks that are insulated to remove elbows, connections that are energized, sometimes. We
need a lot of clearance. We usually need -- Those sticks are about eight feet long. And so, in order to get that clearance,
depending on how we get the load break elbows in there, the switching units, it doesn't give us a lot of clearance for our
crews. In addition, the padmounts, they have clearance in front, because we can operate from a safe distance. The
reliability of this system is that when we have subsurface equipment, if it's in vaults that are not ventilated.

### The vaults for the City's undergrounded transformers are open to the air, but there's no fan.

Whereas, when we have padmounts, they're passively cooled by just being in open air.

1:24:32:

There's also the purchase and maintenance of the equipment. Subsurface transformers approximately cost 20 percent
more. But it's due to the fact that there's only about two manufacturers that supply subsurface transformers to the utility
right now. As opposed to the padmount equipment. Which is -- we have more manufacturers -- approximately four.

### This 11-30-15 staff report (to City Council) names four manufacturers of transformers that are prequalified by the
City. There's a table on page 2 that says what kinds of transformers each manufacturer makes.
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/49927
Two manufacturers, ABB Inc. and Howard Industries, make underground residential transformers. Two manufacturers,
ABB Inc. and HD Supply Portland, make padmount transformers. In other words, this staff report doesn't seem to support
the narrative that there are more suppliers for padmounted transformers than for underground transformers.

The capacity of the system, for the transformers, is -- it allows us to -- When we have padmounted equipment, we're
allowed to look at the nameplate rating of the transformer and run it a little bit warmer, because we know it's going to have
cooling. But when we have subsurface transformers, we generally give them about 80 percent rating, because the hotter
we run them, the shorter the lifespan. The other issue --- The other thing we look at is industry standard. We look to
PG&E, Southern California Edison, San Diego Gas & Electric, Los Angeles Department of Power & Water -- four of the
largest utilities in California, not only in size but in customer service. All four of these agencies do not use subsurface
transformers. They're swapping over to padmounted equipment.

### If they're swapping over now, it must mean that they've been using subsurface transformers up to now.

### Private-sector monopoly electric utility companies don't necessarily have to prioritize the values of the communities
they serve. What other municipal electric utilities are we watching?

1:25:43:

In this picture, we can illustrate the difference between subsurface equipment and padmounted equipment. On the
picture on the left, we have a transformer and switching units. We -- You can see from the transformer, in the box, is that
it's actually in water, and it's about 2 feet deep. So, when our crews go out to either make a service connection, swap out
the transformer, or make switching, they have to work in that environment. Whereas, when we work on the padmount
equipment, we have -- even though there's still shrubs encroaching, we still have a clear distance behind us to operate
and get access to the equipment.

1:26:21:

Commissioner Forssell: Sorry, can I ask a question?

1:26:22:

                                                             21
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM
Greg McKernan: Of course.

1:26:22:

Commissioner Forssell: Because these two photos side-by-side bring it to mind. Will the location of the padmounts be
where previously there were subsurface vaults? Or are the padmounts in different places than the subsurface vaults
were?

1:26:37:

Greg McKernan: We have the flexibility to adjust those transformers. Not a great range. But they don't have to be
directly behind where the existing subsurface vaults are. We have some flexibility in where we can place them.

1:26:50:

Commissioner Forssell: You can move them a few inches, a few feet, a couple houses down?

1:26:52:

Greg McKernan: About 100 feet. What happens is, the farther we move the transformer, then we have to look at the
loading on the transformer. Because we have to supply a certain voltage to each customer. The farther we move the
transformer, the lower voltage. And so that's one of the key -- another key factor when we look at moving transformers for
our design.

1:27:13:

Commissioner Forssell: So, the existing design that would have -- that has certain properties -- as the places that --
there's -- theoretically, there's some flexibility there, that the pads could be mounted someplace else.

1:27:24:

Greg McKernan: We have some flexibility.


1:27:27:

Commissioner Ballantine: But you're not necessarily putting the surface-mount transformers exactly where the vaults are
today.

1:27:34:

Greg McKernan: No. Most of the service vaunts in Underground District #15 are inside sidewalks. So we would not put
the padmount transformers there.

1:27:44:

Debbie Lloyd: And, just to add on, you know, the difference between these two, as well, in terms of our safety
requirements. Obviously, on the left, in the vault there, we have confined space requirements. For safety.

1:27:57:

Commissioner Ballantine. Yeah. It might be interesting just to note that OSHA has requirements for clearance around
electrical gear. And I'm not certain that an underground vault situation like the one in the picture on the left meets today's
OSHA requirements. In any way, shape, or form. Because I think it's something like two feet of clearance around switch
gear. Isn't it? That might be another ...

1:28:28:

Greg McKernan: I think the term is "working space," And so, if you can't operate the equipment, or you have to step on
energized parts to get to it, we would look at that as not functionable.
                                                              22
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM

1:28:37:

Commissioner Ballantine: Yeah.

1:28:42:

Greg McKernan: So, in addition, there's higher maintenance costs for subsurface equipment. In the top picture, with the
blue, that's one of our switched -- our elbows that we use for switching. There's corrosion on it. A lot of these vaults
accumulate water and heat, which adds to the corrosion. So, that's something that we would have to replace -- that
accelerates our overall cost. The picture on the bottom right has standing water. When we do inspections, we need to
pump that water out. But a lot of the times, when the vaults accumulate water, it's not just water. It's debris, oils, other
chemicals, that we then need to dispose of in a special way. We can't just drain it. We have to oil-separate it. And that's
a process and cost that the utility incurs.

1:29:29:

Councilmember Filseth: (unamplified) ** ** (amplified) I'm sorry. Just real briefly. You don't have to go back to the
previous slide, but earlier this year, we had a lot of discussion on cell towers, and undergrounding versus pole-mounting
of cell phone equipment. And there was some discussion that if you put it underground, they would actually put pumps in
there. Is that something that we do, too?

1:29:49:

Greg McKernan: We do not put pumps in our subsurface vaults.

1:29:51:

Councilmember Filseth: OK. For the water. OK.

1:29:55:

Ed Shikada: (unamplified) We use portables, right? We would use portables -- (amplified) We would use portables to
evacuate the water when necessary to work in this space. We wouldn't have a stationary pump in the vault.

1:30:07:

Greg McKernan: Correct. And in the picture ... -- Yes?

1:30:10:

Commissioner Forssell: Sorry. I had just another question, perhaps naive.

1:30:14:

Greg McKernan: No.

1:30:14:

Commissioner Forssell: But the electrical equipment doesn't suffer from being submerged in water / oil when it's not
being inspected? That strikes me as a surprise.

1:30:25:

Greg McKernan: The water and the oils can corrode the tank on the transformer. So, that's something that we're also
concerned about. Yes.

1:30:34:

Commissioner Forssell: That said, it hasn't happened for the last 45 years. In Greenacres.
                                                             23
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM

1:30:38:

**: That's correct.

1:30:39:

Greg McKernan: Well, the elbow in the top right -- the green -- the blue one -- that's Greenacres. And the picture on the
left is Greenacres -- is the equipment. And the picture on the right -- I think that's a different vault. But ...

1:30:53:

Commissioner Ballantine: What if we ask the question this way? In Palo Alto, has a submerged transformer failed? And
was it pretty catastrophic? Yeah. I think that's like -- If water gets into that can, it's all over for that transformer. And it's
going to be a significant failure. And a significant power outage. And if there were people nearby -- like, working on it --
that would be a significant safety hazard. Is that right?

1:31:28:

Greg McKernan: Correct. And when we look at it, we're just talking about Underground District #15 for the residential-
size transformers.

### At some point, that size (i.e., that capacity) should be identified. In a 10-04-95 staff report to UAC, staff seemed to
be saying that a typical transformer for residential was about 50 kVA. In the verbatim minutes of UAC's 10-04-95 meeting,
Assistant Director of Utilities Larry Starr said such a transformer would "probably serve 25 homes." But that was before
the era of electric vehicles. What does staff say now?

But we have much larger transformers that feed commercial customers in downtown. So, when we talk about the broad
scope of things, that is -- that's all.

1:31:45:

Commissioner Ballantine: That little guy right there -- how many kVA is that?

1:31:47:

Greg McKernan: I think that one there on the left is 50 [kVA]. I think there's a "50" on the top of it. So, it's a 50 kVA.

1:31:53:

Commissioner Ballantine: OK.

1:31:54:

Chair Danaher: So, I'm surprised they can't make vaults that are waterproof. Or -- Has that not been the standard?

1:32:01:

Greg McKernan: Well, if it's waterproof, then it's vent-proof, and we can't get any cooling. And so, if we run -- so, it'll heat
the transformer and the conductors, which will cause failures. So, even if we can prevent the water, we still have to deal
with the heat.

1:32:13:

Chair Danaher: All right. Thanks for answering a uneducated question.

1:32:17:

Greg McKernan: No, no. There's no uneducated questions.

                                                                24
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM
1:32:18:

### In the verbatim minutes of the 11-02-95 ARB meeting, Larry Starr says, "They had a program a few years ago of
trying to seal the vaults, but nothing ever lasts. You can keep the water out for a few years, but the seal eventually
fails." I assume this was an attempt to waterproof the sides and bottom of the vault. In principle, it shouldn't be
impossible to have vaults that are this kind of waterproof. Are the vaults in UUD #15 this kind of waterproof?

### In the verbatim minutes of the 10-04-95 UAC meeting, Edward Mrizek says, "The closer you get to the bay, the more
brackish the water is." Maybe this is why they wanted to waterproof the sides and bottom of the vault.

### In the verbatim minutes of the 11-02-95 ARB meeting, Larry Starr says, "We have been tracking where the outages
have been, and this shows where they have been. They are literally all over the city, and especially on San Antonio
Way." It would be nice to be able to view this data. I don't know exactly where San Antonio Way is (because Google
Maps doesn't know), but UUD #18 (1977) is on San Antonio Road. (UUD #36 (1996) is also on San Antonio Road, but
Starr is probably not talking about it.) Starr also says, "... there has been a rash of outages in the San Antonio
area." Note that UUD #18 is closer to the Bay than UUD #15.

### In the verbatim minutes of the 11-08-95 PTC meeting, Larry Starr says, "I can show you a graph in the slides where
we have had 10 or 12 outages a month. So it is really not acceptable." Right.

### The 4Q14 Utilities Quarterly Update (page 47) shows that SAIDI (the System Average Interruption Duration Index)
was 15.78 minutes in FY 2014. In other words, the average customer experienced 15.78 minutes of outage.
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/44272
There were only 20 outages in that fiscal year (much better than 1995), and only 2 were underground-
related. Incidentally, this way of presenting the data doesn't allow you to tell what portion of SAIDI is due to above-ground
wires vs. underground wires, or what is due to underground vs. padmounted transformers. It would be nice to report a
SAIDI for the all-above-ground, all-underground, and underground-with-padmounted-transformers cases separately, as
well as a SAIDI for the entire network.

### The 4Q15 Utilities Quarterly Update (page 47) shows that SAIDI was 46.85 minutes in FY 2015.
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/49576
There were 19 total outages; 6 were underground-related.

### The 4Q16 Utilities Quarterly Update (page 60) shows that SAIDI was 39.48 minutes in FY 2016.
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/54470
There were only 26 outages in that fiscal year; 7 were underground-related.

### According to this 05-02-18 budget-related report, last year, SAIDI was 63.73 minutes in FY 2017.
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/64785
Further details weren't available. The 4Q17 Utilities Quarterly Update contained no SAIDI information.
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/62831
UAC should advise Council to direct staff to publish SAIDI information.

### This 04-09-15 document from Fort Collins, CO, "2014 Fort Collins L&P Equipment Failure Review," shows (page 24)
a graph of their SAIDI information each year from 1984 to 2014.
https://www.fcgov.com/utilities/img/site_specific/uploads/Reliability_and_Outages_04.09.2015.pdf
It also shows (page 4) a "Typical Submersible Transformer installation." The photos seem to show that the underground
transformer's vault is not open to the air. How is this possible?

### Incidentally, this source says, "Typically, the total losses for a 75 kVA transformer are about 1,000 W at 35% loading
or 1.3%. The actual losses when the transformer is fully loaded can be more than 3,000 W for linear loads and 7,000 W
for nonlinear loads."
https://www.schneider-electric.us/en/work/insights/transformer-efficiency-minimizing-transformer-losses.jsp
What does staff say the losses for the City's transformers are? For example, for 50 kVA? Are the loads in Palo Alto
nonlinear? This is the heat that must be dealt with.

Councilmember Filseth: You're saying it's water cooled.

1:32:20:

                                                             25
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM
[laughter]

1:32:23:

Greg McKernan: We hope not, but ...



CONTINUED IN PART 2




                                                     26
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                                Jeff Hoel <jeff_hoel@yahoo.com>
Sent:                                Thursday, August 16, 2018 1:05 PM
To:                                  UAC
Cc:                                  Hoel, Jeff (external); Council, City; CAC-TACC
Subject:                             PART 2 -- TRANSCRIPT & COMMENTS -- 08-01-18 UAC meeting, Item IX.1 --
                                     transformers in UUD 15 (Greenacres I)


Commissioners,

This is Part 2 of my message.

Thanks.


Jeff

------------------
Jeff Hoel
731 Colorado Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94303
------------------

#######################################################################################

08-01-18 UAC meeting video:
http://midpenmedia.org/utilities-advisory-commission-31-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2/

1:32:33:

Greg McKernan: So, we'd also like to talk about some of the -- some of the other options that we have available to
us. So, the placement and visual screening of the transformer. The utility -- like you asked about -- relocating the
transformers. How much flexibility do we have in that. We have some leverage in that. And in addition to that, we also
have the ability to screen some of the transformers by placing initial plantings to try and hide it, so that people don't see it
from their front yard as they're driving by -- to help protect it. In addition, ...

1:33:09:

Chair Danaher: (unamplified) ** Does aesthetics take into account where you were proposing the things in the past **

1:33:18:

Greg McKernan: For our initial design, we never got to the point where -- We were just showing that we were placing
them where the subsurface are currently. But that is -- after discussions with the community, that is something that we're
con- -- we want to do, is -- we want to find locations for these transformers that will help screen them, make them less
noticeable. And so, when we look at some of the vaults, when we talk about Underground District #15, we have all the
secondary connections, all the transformers, all the switching in one box. And what we would need to do for our new
current design standards is break them up individually. So that if someone is making a service connection, they're not in a
situation where they are exposed to high voltage And if they're changing a transformer, they're not exposed to other
switching issues. Some of the cables are very thick because of the insulation, which doesn't allow much bending. So, the
more confined the space, the less ability we have to work with it. So, we need to break it up into different parts.

1:34:20:



                                                               27
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM
In addition, when we talk about placing padmount transformers, there's ways we can use larger transformers to daisy-
chain the transformers, to minimize the outages. So it acts kind of like a switch and a transformer. So that if there's any
issue, we can switch the transformers, isolate an outage, to keep the maximum amount of customers in power as
possible, while we're fixing the issue. So if there's -- say there's a cable failure, we can treat that cable failure while
keeping our customers in power. So that's why we had some of the larger transformers proposed for the site. But we
also have some smaller ones. Like -- Even though the ones on Donald Drive are smaller, they're about 15 inches less
wide. Which is still a significant size difference.

1:35:11:

Commissioner Johnston: Can I -- Can I have a question about it. There's a map that Ed sent around to us today.

### He holds up a map of UUD #6. Can it be part of the next staff report? It's similar to a map of UUD #15, which is
available on PDF page 3 of Nina Bell's email message to UAC.
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/65979

And it has a whole bunch of black squares on it. And I'm interested in what the black squares are. But there's also -- and
I went out and drove around -- there are also some boxes with triangles in them. And those are above ground now.

1:35:34:

Greg McKernan: Correct.

1:35:34:

Commissioner Johnston: And so, what are the black squares.

1:35:37:

Greg McKernan: OK. So, there's going to be -- the black squares are either boxes -- they're going to be physical boxes in
the ground that will have service connections to the residents. So, they'll be what we call just connections. So, the
conductors from the meter and the panel of the residents will meet in the street there, but will also carry conductors back
to the transformer. So, that's sort of -- Yes?

1:36:00:

Commissioner Johnston: (unamplified) So, are these -- black squares -- are these underground, or are they above?

1:36:06:

Greg McKernan: Those are underground. Our conductor -- our wire -- is all underground.

1:36:10:

Commissioner Johnston: (unamplified) OK. So, the black boxes are all underground. And the boxes with the triangles
on it would be the padmounted.

1:36:19:

Greg McKernan: Correct. The boxes are -- the lid is flush with the sidewalk. So we can open the box and get access to
the connections. So, the black boxes are the flush-mounted boxes in the street. So, you might notice one in front of your
house, in one corner or the other.

1:36:36:

Chair Danaher: (unamplified) So, that district, you **.

1:36:40:


                                                             28
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM
Greg McKernan: Well, we would do the same with Underground District #15 as we would do with all our underground
districts. Because we have to make a final service connection. And we make that final service connection in the street,
usually in one corner of the lot. And the other portion runs to the customer's meter and electric service panel.

1:36:57:

Commissioner Johnston: (amplified) Again, maybe I didn't understand this map. But where would the new padmounted
...

1:37:07:

Greg McKernan: OK. So, that was Underground District #6. And that's the one ...

1:37:10:

Commissioner Johnston: Oh.

1:37:10:

Greg McKernan: ... where we put the padmounted equipment in. This is not ...

1:37:12:

Commissioner Johnston: OK. This is not ...

1:37:13:

Greg McKernan: That is not the Greenacres ...

1:37:15:

Debbie Lloyd: Sorry. That was put out today, because a few commissioners had asked to be able to get addresses and
go and see what these padmounts look like. But, no, it's not this district.

1:37:29:

Commissioner Johnston: OK.

1:37:31:

Commissioner Forssell: But, still, AC's question -- you know -- For this map, which is District #6, which is of interest for
people trying to understand the situation, what on those maps showed padmounted switch and transformer boxes? It's
not the black boxes on the map. So, what is it on the map?

1:37:50:

Commissioner Johnston: (unamplified) It's the boxes with the triangles. **

1:37:55:

Greg McKernan: Yes, it's the box that's a square with a triangle in it.

1:37:59:

Commissioner Forssell: So, there are five of them in District #6 -- at least that show up on this map.

1:38:03:

Greg McKernan: Yeah. Right. In fact, there's a little bit more, because it's not including Willmar -- one of the streets
below.
                                                              29
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM

1:38:10:

Commissioner Forssell: Great. Thanks.

1:38:11:

Commissioner Segal: But -- So, I did go drive. So, thanks for that map. And I just want to make sure I understand what
you just said about the size of those boxes and what's being proposed, or what flexibility you have. I thought you said
these were a little bit smaller. Did I misunderstand?

1:38:27:

Greg McKernan: No, that's correct. Some of the transformers that we've proposed allow us to eliminate some of the
switching units. Because we can use the transformer for dual functions. Because of that has a switching element, it's a
little bit wider. By about 15 inches. Compared to the ones on Donald.

### The box at 4177 Donald is 36.5 inches wide x 34.5 inches deep x 34.5 inches high. So I guess adding the switch
would make the box 51.5 inches wide x 34.5 inches deep x 34.5 inches high. Right?

Or the ones that you probably saw today.

1:38:48:

Commissioner Segal: And what gets removed then?

1:38:51:

Greg McKernan: I'm sorry. I didn't hear you.

1:38:52:

Commissioner Segal: What's removed? So, if those are bigger, where's the trade-off?

1:38:58:

Greg McKernan: Well, then we would, in some situations, need an additional piece of equipment to do that switching.

1:39:06:

Commissioner Forssell: So, another theoretical design possibility is more boxes that are smaller. Do I have that
right? You could ...

1:39:19:

Debbie Lloyd: Yes. So -- kind of, we'll get to it in the end -- I think we have like another four ...

1:39:26:

Chair Danaher: (unamplified) Why don't we let you continue ** presentation **

1:39:28:

Debbie Lloyd: OK. [laughs]

1:39:29:

Commissioner Ballantine: Let me just ask one more question about smaller. Inside that can, is it the classic, you know,
one big winding next to another big winding? Or is it some weird configuration?

                                                                30
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM
1:59:43:

Greg McKernan: Um. Well, I think there's a photo of one open. And it will show that there's two bushings for the -- It's
like a pole-top transformer. Have you seen one?

1:39:52:

Commissioner Ballantine: What's it look like inside a pole-top transformer?

1:39:55:

Greg McKernan: Oh, it's got -- it's -- yeah -- it's one winding ...

1:39:57:

Commissioner Ballantine: One winding, right. One big winding.

1:39:59:

Greg McKernan: Well, there's one winding, with a primary and then a secondary. So, it's just one winding.

1:40:03:

Commissioner Ballantine: So, I saw once someone wind a transformer in a hexagon pattern. It costs more. But it was
about half the size. As a three-phase transformer.

1:40:16:

Greg McKernan: OK.

1:40;18:

Commissioner Ballantine: Which -- Can -- You're using three-phase transformers, right? Or you're doing only a single
phase?

1:40:23:

Greg McKernan: Only -- For the residential areas, we would use the single phase. If we did a three winding transformer,
...

1:40:31:

Commissioner Ballantine: Yeah.

1:40:31:

Greg McKernan: ... then we would look at -- It would be a voltage conversion. Because it's -- It wouldn't be the same.

1:40:34:

Commissioner Ballantine: But that might be some to consider -- is a three- -- You can -- I'll find for you guys the name of
the company that makes hexagon-shaped transformers. It's escaping me right now, but it's got "hexagon" in it.

1:40:45:

Greg McKernan: OK.

1:40:46:

[laughter]
                                                                31
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM

1:40:47:

Commissioner Ballantine: Yeah. And they really are about half the size of the classic three-phase transformer, which just
has the three big windings.

1:40:55:

Greg McKernan: OK.

1:40:55:

Commissioner Ballantine: And then -- And then you'd have to do -- Well, I don't know why you'd necessarily have to do
voltage conversion, because I think you might be able to go straight to residential with that. And then -- what -- branch it
out.

1:41:07:

Greg McKernan: When we do -- use three-phase for commercial, ...

1:41:10:

Commissioner Ballantine: Uh huh.

1:41:10:

Greg McKernan: ... it's -- When we wind the core, it's different than how we wind the core for residential areas.

### I assume that the City doesn't actually wind the cores of transformers. It just buys transformers.

So, when the power to your home -- If it's ...

1:41:19:

Commissioner Ballantine: Right. I got -- I'm with you.

1:41:20:

Greg McKernan: OK. Right. So, generally speaking, ...

1:41:21:

Chair Danaher: (unamplified) ** I've got a (amplified) chairman thing. You're getting way over the heads of ...

1:41:25:

Greg McKernan: I know.

1:41:25:

Chair Danaher: ... most people in the room. So, let's take this part of the technical thing off-line.

1:41:31:

Greg McKernan: Sure. Absolutely.

1:41:31:

Chair Danaher: There may be an angle there to explore.

                                                               32
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM
1:41:32:

Commissioner Ballantine: It's got "hexagon" in the name.

1:41:35:

Greg McKernan: We can discuss it further, later, if you're interested.

1:41:39:

Debbie Lloyd: OK. So, [we've] kind of talked about some other options here. Again, what was -- There was just a
preliminary design. We had not got as far as looking at placement and size and options for screening. But I did ask to get
some examples of the screening. And so, the ** ** told me to go look at this one on Pena Court.

### The underground districts map (page 4 here) shows that Pena Court is just OUTSIDE of UUD #5.
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/50531
How many residences with undergrounded utilities are not in any underground district?

So I Google-Mapped it, and I was looking around. And then I marched down, and I said, I asked for one where there was
a padmounted. So, where is it? This is my game called "can you spot the transformer?"

1:42:32:

Chair Danaher: Behind the hedge.

1:42:35:

Debbie Lloyd: Yeah. It's right behind that mailbox. And, again, this -- you know, there's design options to use these
smaller cabinets.

1:43:02:

Greg McKernan: And just as a comparison, the transformer on the left is a 50 kVA transformer. The transformer on the
right is a 75 kVA transformer. They are very similar in size. So, when we look at designing capacity for the system, if
we're going to go through and rebuild a district, we look at, well, what's the future load expected? And how can we
prepare for that? And if the transformers are the same size, why can't we put in one that's a little bit more loaded -- or,
larger in size , more capacity for the residential. So, if there's the expected growth, we do expect with electrified -- with
the electrification -- then the capacity is already available for the residents.

### A larger transformer will have more core losses (incurred regardless of load). On the other hand, a larger
transformer should last longer, for a given load.

1:43:45:

Debbie Lloyd: So, as we have mentioned already, too, there -- an alternative here would maintain the underground
structures. That does require a policy change. Our current standards -- for all the reasons that we've mentioned in this
presentation, for the safety and reliability and cost -- that is our standard. So, it would require a change in policy to allow
for the underground placement of equipment in these rebuild districts. How -- you know, this raises questions. One, how
is it paid for? Because it is more costly. Is it going to be collected from residents? Is it -- do we use the Special Facilities
Fee structure? Is it collected from everybody? What if somebody doesn't want to participate in that? And, two, just, you
know, to bear in mind that if we do this, going forward, there is the reliability issues, for longer, larger outages when they
do occur. With any luck, they'll have another 45 years with no outages, but, as was mentioned, this is kind of like current
loading. And as we look at electrification -- of vehicles, and maybe even conversion from gas, we expect to see more
loading on the system. And it also will impact our ability to kind of get these projects out. It will take longer. Take more
resources to do it. So, we'll be slowing down our rebuild and our undergrounding programs.

1:45:42:

Greg McKernan: So, just to give a cost comparison between the padmount and the subsurface designs, the difference in
cost is about $345,000. The difference is, when we do the padmount equipment, we can utilize the existing vaults that are
                                                               33
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM
currently there to do our cable pulling and splicing. And the installation of a pad would allow us to have that separation
between the transformer and the splicing and the switching of the cables. Whereas, if we were to maintain it all
subsurface, it would require the installation of a new vault to house the transformer. So, that's an extensive project,
because vaults are quire expensive. And the excavation and labor to install it is also expensive. We would keep the
amount of transformers the same. But if we did the padmount, we could utilize some of the transformers that also act as a
switch. So we could remove some of the switches, which would be less equipment that we'd have to maintain and
operate. And -- Yeah, that's -- So, the main price difference between the two is the cost of the new vaults for the new
transformers, because, looking at the pictures showing the switches, the transformers, and low-voltage connections, it's
too much equipment to operate in one vault. So we'd separate it out, by adding a new vault.

1:47:03:

Chair Danaher: So, to be clear, the equipment costs in this are based quotes from the manufacturers?

1:47:08:

Greg McKernan: Correct.

1:47:09:

Chair Danaher: And then there's labor costs assessed for -- do you have an estimate of hours that you work with for
building a vault and doing a pad?

1:47:19:

Greg McKernan: I think the estimate for installing the vault was around $25,000, to get our crew to get out there,
purchase the vault, excavate, install, add the additional conduit.

1:47:33:

Chair Danaher: OK.

1:47:36:

Commissioner Forssell: And then, the subsurface proposal -- or, you know, potential design -- it's OSHA-
compliant? There are -- Are there still worker safety concerns with that version? Or does this design around those so that
the clearances are brought up to modern standards, and so forth?

1:47:59:

Greg McKernan: We would design it in a way that it's safe for our employees. However, our subsurface transformers will
always be a hazard because if there's a catastrophic failure, there's one way it goes. It's a confined space. Leaves
limited time for our employees to exit, or get out of the equipment. Or the vault, the confined area. That's our main
concern with the subsurface equipment, is in the rare event of a catastrophic failure. The transformers are filled with
oil. So when they get hot, they get very hot, and they cause scalding and burning.

1:48:38:

Chair Danaher: So, help us understand that. Somebody would be in there, because there's a problem with the unit?

1:48:44:

Greg McKernan: It generally happens under switching, when we're pulling elbows, or making connection on the high-
voltage side. There's an issue -- a fault with the equipment, or, for whatever reason, something -- the equipment doesn't
act properly, it will arc, energize, and, in rare instances, cause a transformer to explode.

1:49:09:

Commissioner Johnston: You say that's a rare instance. Have there been instances of that in Palo Alto?

                                                            34
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM
1:49:14:

Greg McKernan: Um. Not that I'm aware of. Not here.

1:49:22:

Chair Danaher: Palo Alto is a small data set, I guess. If we asked PG&E, they would have instances?

1:49:27:

Greg McKernan: There's been instances in PG&E, Southern California Edison. It's happened. It's why -- It's one of the
huge reasons why the industry has moved away from them -- is for employee safety.

1:49:42:

Commissioner Ballantine: And in those utilities, have there been fatalities?

1:49:49:

Dean Batchelor: I can speak to -- there has been in PG&E. And then, more recently, just to think about how violent these
can be, is that, there was an incident, maybe about 5-6 years ago where there some outages that were happening down
on Mission Street, in San Francisco, where these vaults are underneath a sewer main lid -- think how heavy that is. I
mean, these things are -- When these things went, they actually were blown up in the air, hundreds of feet. And landing
on cars. And, fortunate enough, there were no injuries to pedestrians. It wasn't that time of the -- time when pedestrians
were out. But -- how violent these things -- as they blow -- it's pretty dangerous.

### This 08-31-16 video says that in San Francisco, a manhole cover weighing 250 pounds flew 25 feet in the air.
http://www.ktvu.com/news/explosion-heard-in-downtown-san-francisco
This 08-20-05 article describes another San Francisco incident, where a manhole cover was tossed 30 feet.
https://www.sfgate.com/news/article/EXPLOSION-ROCKS-DOWNTOWN-SAN-FRANCISCO-BLAST-2615599.php
This 11-01-17 article says that in vault fire explosions, manhole covers can travel several hundred feet.
https://www.fireengineering.com/articles/print/volume-170/issue-11/features/a-collaborative-approach-to-electrical-vault-
fires.html

### This 08-18-15 article contains a video that shows an explosion where a manhole cover was blown 200 feet high.
https://www.nbcnews.com/business/energy/flying-manhole-covers-n411921
The article says some cities have better track records than others. It seems to say that explosions happen when the
insulation from overheated wires vaporizes and the volatile gases accumulate in a confined space until something makes
them explode.

### This 2014 analysis, "Analytics for Power Grid Distribution Reliability in New York City" (33 pages),
http://web.mit.edu/seyda/www/Papers/Interfaces_AwardPaper.pdf
recommends manhole covers with slots so that the volatile gases don't accumulate.

### Does Palo Alto have a problem with overheating the wires? Palo Alto's underground transformer vaults are open to
the air. But its vaults for switches and connection boxes are not. Right?

1:50:30:

Commissioner Ballantine: I've seen a 500-pound transformer that had a -- it was about this big. So it's -- That happened
to be about 200 kVA. So, four times bigger than the one in the can. It had -- That was a three-phase transformer. So,
slightly different design. But it suffered a phase-to-ground fault -- short. And, by the time that casualty was over, and you
went and looked it, phase A was gone. The copper had turned to vapor. Phase B was mostly gone. Most of the copper
had gone to vapor. And phase C was mostly still there. And so, you know, I think one of the things that -- we're used to
things being underground, and think of them as benign. Cable? It's more or less benign, unless somehow it gets cut,
because it doesn't store up energy. But the transformer -- those windings -- those are inductors. And they're going to
store up magnetic field energy.

### This magnetic field energy is significant. However, it goes to zero 120 times per second.

                                                             35
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM
And that -- you know, one of the things that I think was an important question we might want to come back to. Because,
obviously, the opposite -- you know, putting them above ground -- now you don't have to worry about them getting wet.

### Occasionally, parts of Palo Alto flood, and that could make an above-ground transformer get wet. Also, the box
containing an above-ground transformer can have cracks through which a small amount of water might leak, but I don't
suppose it's a problem.

When they get wet, the probability of having a, you know, phase-to-ground fault that's going to cause that transformer to
explode, in a worst case, I think increases.

1:51:48:

But I think one of the pieces of data that -- I know we've found studies. Because in our brief time here this evening, I
found one from Croatia. The probability doesn't make us feel any better. But in Croatia, you can have up to 10 microtesla
of magnetic field strength from a transformer and it's deemed to be acceptable by the government. And a very thoughtful
study of a transformer that doesn't look shielded to me -- meaning I don't think it was in any kind of enclosure, the way the
ones that are proposed are -- by the time you got to two meters away, you were at 1 microtesla. But that might be also an
interesting set of data. Certainly, when you think about -- we're going to put them 20 feet a bedroom. But, a transformer -
- you know, it's a serious -- it looks very passive, but it's stored up a lot of magnetic field energy, in order to do what it
does. And so, putting them in the safest possible place is really important.

1:52:56:

Chair Danaher: All right. We've had a lot of questions along the way. But why don't we continue with questions. And I
want to be mindful that folks from the neighborhood wanted to, you know, make sure we had specific data on cost,
specific data on safety, alternatives ** size -- Yeah.

1:53:15:

Ed Shikada: If I might add, Mr. Chair, members of the commission, just on that safety point, I think, in follow-up to the
neighborhood, I would note that we did look for published reports and statistics, and we were not able to find it. You
know, the information as presented is largely anecdotal. And, perhaps not surprisingly, the agencies have not published
much information on this. And, unfortunately, we were not able to provide more objective information.

1:53:52:

Commissioner Ballantine: Well, I'll try to summarize a few thoughts. For myself. I think, first of all, as an engineer, the
thing -- one of the things I find to be most frustrating is finding that what used to be a solid solution for me or team
members has become less of solution as time goes along, because there's new information. Even today, I saw that
there's video on the Internet of some poor person who was trying to charge their cell phone on an airplane, and got to
enjoy having the airplane be evacuated when that little set-up of wiring caught on fire. I don't think, five years ago, we
gave much thought to charging up cell phones on airplanes. And now, all of a sudden, we have to. I think we probably all
think about our neighborhoods the same way. Even though, of course, for you, yours is special. I think we all have
values, where we say, safety's number one. And aesthetics is right there, because these are our homes. And value, and
property value, is there as well, because these are also our investments. And maybe those move around a little bit. But I
bet safety always rises to the top for us. For me, you know, I think about engineering problems most of the day. And I
probably wouldn't choose to pay to have a transformer underground next to my house, because I know how much water
comes down Newell Street when it rains. And I would be very worried that what would happen next would be, the
transformer would flood, the transformer would fail or explode. And if it failed, one of the things that I think is -- is certainly
a growing concern for me -- is that more and more of us rely, for our own health and safety, on reliable power. And it
could be that my neighbor two doors down is an emphysema patient, relying on their oxygen equipment in their
house. And that's the moment when the power goes out. And they happen to be asleep. It fails, and they pass away in
the night. That's me.

1:56:06:

I can certainly imagine some schemes where those transformers might become smaller. And I'll happily follow up on
weird packages for how to wire up a transformer into a hexagon, where they become a little bit more compact, and
perhaps less of a concern. I certainly think there are federal standards for magnetic field strength from things that emit
electromagnetic radiation. I think that's one of the things we're very fortunate to have in our country. And certainly in the
                                                                36
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM
state of California. It will probably take a little bit of digging to find it. It's probably also going to take a little bit of digging to
get the two or three suppliers of transformers to cough up the data on what the magnetic field strength is coming off their
transformers. My personal gut feel is that the strength of the fields coming off those transformers, which I do think are
shielded, is probably signif- -- quite a bit lower than what we do to ourselves in other places in our houses. But that's not
data. And I think the data ought to be fairly easy to get to

1:57:13:

 And then, lastly, I do think it's sobering to think about what these -- what these casualties are like when they do
happen. You know, again, here I am, saying, yeah, I'll put the transformer in my front yard. But that doesn't help
you. When you have a person being electrocuted, It's often a very, very severe injury or a fatality. And so, you know, it's
sobering. None of these things are fun to think about. You know, like, well, then, why would I want to have it in my
yard? Yet this is the reality we have, and we're trying to figure out how to bring electricity to our homes. We're trying to
figure out how to do it in the safest possible way. So, those are my quick thoughts.

1:58:07:

Chair Danaher: AC.

1:58:10:

Commissioner Johnston: So, I think that -- the discussion, for me, has been quite illuminating. I've learned a lot during
this discussion. I'm im- -- I think I've -- am persuaded that the reasons that the City chose to make the padmounted
transformers the standard make sense. But it sounds to me like there is more work that could be done, working with the
community, to see if there are design alternatives. You know, Arnie brought up one: using a different kind of transformer,
that might be smaller. I have lived with a box -- a padmounted box in my front yard. Before. I hated it. But after a while,
you actually just don't notice it anymore. It's one of those things -- that when I asked how much it was going to cost to
move it -- because it wasn't even -- for historical reasons, it wasn't even on the lot line. So I wanted to just move it 10 feet,
to put it on the lot line, which would make it less obtrusive. But it was going to cost so much money that it was not worth
doing. But it's one of those things that is just a reality in a lot of places -- that these transformers are on padmounts. I
think that if the -- if the City is -- or, if the utilities are planning to do this in a number additional districts, I think this is a
question that is going to continue to come up. And so I think that answering some of the questions about safety that Arnie
was touching on -- answering questions about design -- are things you're going to be faced with. I think it does make
sense to pencil out, as you've started to do, what it would cost to do an underground. I think if you were going to do an
underground -- offer that as a possible option -- I think it would be reasonable to ask the residents to shoulder the
additional cost. Because you are being asked to deviate from the standard.

2:00:47:

Chair Danaher: Lisa, do you have any thoughts?

2:00:49:

Commissioner Forssell: Yeah. A few thoughts. I definitely appreciate what Commissioner Ballantine and Commissioner
Johnston have already brought up. The thing I'm still struggling to fundamentally understand is the size. I think it was
Nina who emailed us some mock-ups of -- based on the residents' understanding of the proposed size of the boxes. And
thanks for correcting -- it was 32-gallon bins. And I assume that you'd space them apart, to -- And those strike me as
significantly larger feeling than the photos that Commissioner Danaher just passed me of the boxes driving down Donald
Drive. And it seems to me pretty crucial to be -- have like painstaking accuracy on this size of the boxes. Because it is --
you know, if it's -- if it's 20 feet from your bedroom window, then whether the box is 6 feet long or 4 feet long, or 2 feet high
or 3 feet high or 4 high is, I think, really important. So, I don't know if it's possible to get that tonight. But it -- I just wanted
to call out that it seems really pivotal to have, like I said, painstaking accuracy on the proposed size, and on design
alternatives, if there are alternatives on that size.

2:02:18:

Ed Shikada: If it's helpful, perhaps I could provide a little bit of clarity on that.

2:02:21:

                                                                   37
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM
Commissioner Forssell: Sure.

2:02:22:

Ed Shikada: So, the photos from Donald Drive do reflect slightly smaller than, as Greg described, the maximum size that
had been proposed -- on -- in the Greenacres neighborhood. The boxes on Donald are 34 inches tall by 44 inches wide
and 33 inches deep.

### I measured the box at 4177 Donald, and it is 34.5 inches high, 36.5 inches wide, and 34.5 inches deep.

2:02:51:

Commissioner Forssell: 34" by 44" ...

2:02:52:

Ed Shikada: By 33".

2:02:53:

Commissioner Forssell: ... by 33".

2:02:53:

Ed Shikada: The boxes that have been proposed -- again, this is the maximum, that provide both the switch and the
transformer, are 38 inches tall by 48 inches wide and 39 inches deep. So, roughly 4 inches taller, 4 inches wider, and 6
inches deeper.

### This differs from Greg McKernan's description at 1:38:27. The next staff report should clarify.

Now, that said, I would note -- and with all due respect to Nina -- the vantage point by which the photos that she provided
largely reflect kind of a eye-level height of the cabinet. Which suggests that you have to be at 38 inches off the ground in
order to get that vantage point.

2:03:38:

Chair Danaher: You're saying she's a realtor?

2:03:41:

Ed Shikada: No. There is a vantage point from which those photos were shot. And I think that that does give the
impression of a box, again, that you're looking at at eye height. And so, unless you're 38 inches tall, you'd actually have
to be crouching a bit to get that angle.

### That is, the observer's eyes would have to be 38 inches above pad level to see what the photos show.

2:04:08:

Commissioner Forssell: Thanks for providing that. I think that it remains as an exercise for somebody like me to try to
figure out how to experience that in person. The other thing that I guess I wanted to point out was, it did say in the staff
report -- I mean, we haven't talked a lot about Section B.3 and Regulation #3. I thought it was interesting that Jeff Hoel
brought up in his comments, sort of trying to get into the mindset of City Council back in 1996, when this was
changed. But the report does point out that at the time that City Council made that decision, there was not an expectation
that the existing underground districts would need to be rebuilt.

2:05:05:

Ed Shikada: Correct.

2:05:05:
                                                             38
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM

Commissioner Forssell: So I just think it's worth pointing out that it doesn't necessarily feel like -- when that resolution
was made -- that this particular circumstance had been thought through. I think that's worth noting.

### In the verbatim minutes of the 10-04-95 UAC meeting, Larry Starr says, "It is not our plan to try and go back and
convert everything. We think that may be too difficult. What we are asking for is that all new construction be
padmounted." I assume that staff at that time knew that the transformers in underground districts would need to be
replaced eventually, but they didn't intend to change the location of the transformers when they were replaced. But later,
that policy was apparently changed. When was it changed? And can the public have access to the documents that
discussed the reasons for the change?

And then, also, I just was curious about -- the -- because, again, size is really important, and the -- I forget. In some of the
input that we got from residents, was sort of calling out the difference between easement and right-of-way. And I actually,
myself, don't know what the difference is there. But I'm curious about if anybody on staff can speak to sort of like what is
the mechanism by which the utility, or the City, sort of has the right to put stuff on residents' property. And are there any
limits to that? Either in size or -- You know, I can imagine other things that sort of encroach on people's property, like
sound. Or if it was a piece of equipment that the lights were on all the time. Or, you know, sort of disturbing people's
sense of ownership of their lot. And I'm curious if anybody can speak to that.

2:06:16:

Ed Shikada: Sure. Greg, do you want to speak to the specifics of the right-of-way in Greenacres?

2:06:22:

Greg McKernan: So, right-of-way is public right-of-way. So, that is land -- property -- owned by the City. And an
easement would be, the property owner -- private property owner -- would grant the utility access to place equipment on
there. So, in this situation, we're proposing to put the utility equipment in public right-of-way. Not on private property.

2:06:45:

Commissioner Forssell: OK. That's a super-huge distinction. Because in the mock-ups, aren't the 32-gallon bins with the
sheet over them like in the middle of somebody's lawn?

2:06:56:

Greg McKernan: Yes. That's .....

2:06:56:

Commissioner Forssell: Am I missing -- so the mock-ups are inaccurate, in that sense?

2:06:59:

Greg McKernan: We would place them behind sidewalk.

2:07:04:

Ed Shikada: There's a 5-foot section behind the sidewalk that is the right-of-way.

2:07:09:

Commissioner Forssell: It's not actually owned by the homeowner?

2:07:11:

Greg McKernan: Correct.

2:07:11:

                                                               39
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM
Commissioner Forssell: But it's -- They feel like it's part of their yard. They maintain it. They probably irrigate it, etc.

2:07:17:

Greg McKernan: Correct.

2:07:18:

Commissioner Forssell: But, technically, the City owns that.

2:07:20:

Greg McKernan: Correct.

2:07:20:

Commissioner Johnston: Lisa, the difference between -- Some neighborhoods, there's the street, and then there's a strip
of land, and then there's a sidewalk.

2:07:29:

Commissioner Forssell: Um hum.

2:07:29:

Commissioner Johnston: But in this area, there's no strip of land between the sidewalk and the street.

2:07:36:

Commissioner Forssell: Right.

2:07:37:

Commissioner Johnston: Right? And so, the right-of-way is on the property on the other side of the sidewalk.

2:07:39:

Commissioner Forssell: Is on the other side of the -- Ah, OK. All right. So, thanks for clarifying that. And how big is that
strip? How big is that right-of-way?

2:07:47:

Greg McKernan: Five feet. Behind the sidewalk. Five feet.

2:07:51:

Commissioner Forssell: I see. OK. Thanks.

2:07:56:

Chair Danaher: (unamplified) And you.

2:07:58:

Commissioner Segal: Yes. I second a lot of what you've already heard. And I will say, it's disappointing that we're having
a lot of these factual conversations today, after having had so much time with the neighbors. And some of these
questions, I feel, should have already been known to everyone. And especially the size of the transformers and maybe a
couple options, knowing that you have a group who is mostly concerned about aesth- -- not mostly, but very concerned
about aesthetics, that they don't even know what they'll be looking at is disappointing. And I think we could have saved a
lot of time tonight if some of that had been investigated and disclosed before.
                                                               40
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM

2:08:44:

Ed Shikada: Ah. I do want to address that -- that it was very clear in our conversations with neighbors that there was no
discussion -- or, no interest in discussion of, say, minimizing the size. It was, basically, looking for options that did not
involve above-ground cabinets.

2:09:01:

### The audio didn't pick up the objections from the audience very well, but I remember that there were some.

2:09:03:

Commissioner Segal: I don't want to bring up ...

2:09:04:

Chair Danaher: (unamplified) We're not going to ...

2:09:05:

Commissioner Segal: I don't want to -- I'm just noting that there's a lot of discussion that's going on, that I would have
hoped would have been resolved earlier. And then, I guess I'm also interested in different options, and sizes for the
padmounted transformers. My gut tells me that safety still have to be number one. But I think we can accommodate
some aesthetics, while still getting to those saf- -- or, I hope we can -- while still getting to those safety concerns.

2:09:36:

Commissioner Trumbull: I don't have much to add to what other commissioners have already said. Other than -- We had
a meeting to work with the residents. And it's pretty obvious from the comments we had today, we have a lot more to
go. I would hope that the staff shows a lot of flexibility to work with the residents to address their concerns in
implementing this.

2:10:00:

Chair Danaher: All right. So, I -- Thoughts come in buckets. And it's hard to trade them off, sometimes. Well, one
bucket is cost. Clearly it costs more. (Jeff, I'll speak up. Thank you for the signals.) But clearly it costs more. If that
were the only consideration, I'm conscious of the 85 percent of the residents who have overhead wires. And we're going
slowly on those. And if we were rebuilding things, and paying extra amounts, as a City, to keep it underground, I would
think -- and when it comes to my district, I would feel the same way -- that that's something that would be shared by the
residents, is the extra cost. And it can be done in some long-term payment -- I don't know,10-year or whatever
assessment -- That's how I would feel would be fair, given the other 85 percent of the residents in the City.

2:10:56:

But I don't think cost is the main issue. And, on aesthetics, these are not pretty boxes. I wouldn't want one in my yard. I
may have one at some point. I did go through Donald. It's a lovely neighborhood. It's lovely without all the wires
there. And the big streets. And there aren't that many boxes. It took me a while to find the first one. And I looked at that
and, gee, I'd rather not have that next to my driveway if I were there. But it didn't greatly diminish the quality of the
neighborhood, I thought. I think, if -- and we can talk about safety in a second -- if we end up having to do above-ground
boxes, there has to be real attention to the value of aesthetics. Which would be size, placement, screening, decoration,
anything that could be thought about. It can't be given short shrift at all. And -- Because these are beautiful homes,
beautiful neighborhood, high property values.

2:11:56:

If it were just cost and aesthetics, i would say, put it underground. The -- Commissioner Ballantine's comments about
safety kind of shook me. And I'm thinking about, if my nephew is an engineer, were working in one of those, with danger
of electrocution, or worse, I wouldn't take that trivially. And it mattered to me to hear that all the major utilities in the state
have treated above-ground as the standard now. And that some of them have had incidents. I think that's important, and
                                                                41
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM
maybe worth looking into. Get a little more data on that. The small data set represented by Palo Alto doesn't have
statistical significance. But the decisions by these major utilities -- I think is important. Were it not for the safety issue, I'd
want to put them below-ground, accept the extra cost, find a way to spread that over time, and do it in an equitable
fashion. Given the safety issue, and perhaps wanting to learn more, my inclination is for staff to work and see what are
the best possible solutions on aesthetics. All the different parameters of that. And I was reassured that District #15 was a
really lovely neighborhood.

### I think Chair Danaher meant to name Underground District #6, the one that already has the padmounted
transformers.

It didn't -- you know -- those things aren't pretty, but it didn't destroy the neighborhood. So, I don't know, for me, I think
safety may be the overriding thing. But maybe there's more to be heard on that. I also think, notwithstanding -- We could
talk about policy. This may be a policy that was adopted 22 years ago. Jeff, thank you for digging that up. We can
always count on you. I really appreciate that. If we have a lot of districts to be redone, and people have similar concerns
about aesthetics, maybe that could go back to the Council again, with -- time to revisit. You know, after 22
years. Knowing that it's going to affect another 12,000 house- -- well, I forgot how many houses.

2:14:20:

Ed Shikada: (unamplified) 2,500.

2:14:20:

Chair Danaher: 2,500 -- ah, so far, have to re-built. As we -- And, in the future, others, as we roll that out. Just to
reaffirm or change the policy. But I'm -- At the moment, I'm leaning towards safety being the key criteria. And, if that's
the case, then working really hard to find the best aesthetic situation. As I said, I don't know what order mine is on
there. But it looked like it might have been on your map for the redoing there. So I'm I'm thinking about if from that point
of view as well.

The -- Ed, without having to come to a resolution tonight -- Because you have scheduled to allow us more time to study
this, right? And think about it?

2:15:11:

Ed Shikada: Yes, certainly. You know, we can do some additional homework. Obviously -- as has been referenced --
any additional information we can glean on the safety issues might be helpful for the discussions. And -- again, to
commissioners points -- I'm more than happy to have staff look more specifically -- and work with the neighborhhoods -- at
the smaller options, as well as location and aesthetic treatments that can be undertaken.

2:15:39:

Chair Danaher: And there's two parts to the safety thing, as well. What's the -- Worker safety, which is important. And
then -- it came out somewhat around the edges in the comments -- is there a safety issue with having it above
ground? The risk of explosion, or something like that? I understand that it's cooled, so that doesn't -- it doesn't have that
problem. But maybe the vendors could provide data. Or maybe we could ask some of these other utilities what their
experience has been. And -- You know, I'm keeping in mind ...

2:16:12:

Commissioner Ballantine: And the magnetic field strength, too.

2:16:12:

Chair Danaher: Magnetic field strength.

2:16:15:

Commissioner Ballantine: I did, by the way, now find the limit in New York. Which, again, doesn't help us. But New
York's more permissive than Croatia.

                                                                42
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM
2:16:23:

[laughter]

2:16:27:

Chair Danaher: So, fellow commissioners, if we left it without a resolution, but request to hear a little more on the safety,
and perhaps a little more on the feedback from the other utilities, and on what might be done on aesthetics, is that the
best we could do for tonight, I think? You know -- I mean, we've spent nearly two and a half hours on this subject, so we
don't treat it as a light issue. And a lot of them were -- chance to talk about it further. Do I see assent on that? So, we'll
leave this as unfinished business. And I apologize for the staff. I know you've done a lot of work. And -- But I also know
that you care about how the residents feel, and want to make sure we get to a right decision.

### So, UAC didn't vote on this action item tonight, but it can vote on it later, when it comes back (presumably still as an
action item).

Councilmember.

2:17:25:

Councilmember Filseth: I don't think I have much to add, other than, my though process was pretty similar to Chair
Danaher's -- so -- I listened to this. I really feel like I learned a lot tonight, which I appreciate. Both the neighbors and the
staff. I mean, I think what you've got here is something of a constrained problem. And I think -- you know, I feel like I got
a better understanding of where the sides of the polygon are -- all right? -- that we have to work within. The only thing I
would say on the safety thing -- and I think, you know -- certainly it's useful to go get more data. But at some level -- I
mean, at some level, we're going to -- we're -- all of us together, in some way, shape, or form -- going to make a
qualitative decision on this, not a quantitative one. And, you know, certainly, to all indications, the likelihood of a
catastrophic accident that we're talking about here -- pretty remote. Right? I mean -- And so, there's that. But then, on
the other hand, if -- You know, if we were to proceed down here and actually somebody got hurt -- right? -- you know,
then we'd all feel terrible. And I don't know how you weigh that, when there's probably not a quantitative answer to it. So,
-- that's it.

2:18:42:

Chair Danaher: Yeah. Well said. All right. So, thank you, everybody, for coming and sharing your thoughts. There will
be another chance to address this issue. And commission members who have not had a chance to go through that
neighborhood, it's worth a few minutes, when you have an opportunity. All right. Great. And thank you, Debbie, very
much. All right.

So we took a lot of our evening for that.

2:19:23:

Ed Shikada: Boy. Yes.

2:19:23:

Chair Danaher: But it's an important topic. And I think it needs to be ...

1:19:25:

Ed Shikada: Yes.

1:19:25:

Chair Danaher: ... dealt with carefully.

2:19:27:

END
                                                               43
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/16/2018 1:41 PM




                                                     44
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:35 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                   Michael Harbour <dr.mharbour@gmail.com>
Sent:                                   Sunday, August 19, 2018 8:15 PM
To:                                     Council, City
Subject:                                Update for 429 University Ave Appeal
Attachments:                            Appellants' Objections to 429 University.pdf



Dear Mayor Kniss and City Council Members:

I am writing to update you regarding the appeal we pursued regarding the development of 429 University
Avenue at the intersection of Kipling Street. On February 6, 2017 the City Council approved Building Option
1 designed by Joseph Bellomo Architects on behalf of Elizabeth Wong. Included with that approval were
specific Council mandated rules which the applicant must follow. These included ARB approval of the
western wall design, landscaping, and exterior building materials, colors, and craftsmanship. Since that time the applicant
fired the architect who had designed the Council approved Option 1. Joe Bellomo has publicly "disavowed"
himself from the building and its design. The applicant did not return to the ARB within the one year time
frame as required in the permit process. The Planning Department granted her a one year extension.

After 18 months since the original City Council ruling, the applicant appeared before the ARB on August 16, 2018. This was the first time
that the ARB had seen Option 1. The ARB unanimously voted 3-0 against the submitted design plans and continued the meeting to a future
undetermined date. At the conclusion of the ARB meeting, the applicant vowed to obtain her building permit "prior" to the design being
approved. This is in direct violation of the City Council motion. (Please see the appellants' most recent opposition to the design comments
attached in a PDF).

Our original appeal was filed based on violations of municipal code 18.18.100 which specifically addresses design, context and
compatibility. It is unfair to the appellants and the citizens of Palo Alto to allow the applicant any special treatment to circumvent these
requirements. Your City Council resolution was clear that she must abide by the ARB design approval process. She has already won the
ability demolish Birge Clark buildings and construct a mammoth four story building with maximum FAR on this premier site adjacent to
Victorian homes. If the applicant was to begin demolition or construction before all design items were resolved, it would give her a "vesting
claim" to continue building the project without adhering to the council mandate. The responsibility of submitting the design plans to the
ARB lies solely with the applicant. It is not our fault that she exceeded her one year limit, applied for an extension, and then submitted her
first proposal to the ARB more than 18 months after the city's resolution. Given that she fired her architect and the ARB has not weighed in
on Option 1, I urge you to uphold your resolution and make the applicant abide to the Palo Alto design standards as guarded by the ARB.

Best regards,

Michael Harbour, MD, MPH
Lead Appellant for 429 University Ave
Property owner: 421 and 423 Kipling Street
Downtown North Resident: 480 Palo Alto Ave




                                                                       1
                                 Palo Alto ARB Quasi-Judicial Hearing
                     Appellants’ Objections to 429 University Ave Design Proposal
                                           August 16, 2018
History: This project was appealed by neighbors and community members. Project was NOT
approved by the Palo Alto ARB and the HRB. However, the project was narrowly approved by the city
council on February 6, 2017. The applicant has exceeded her 1-year time limit and was granted an
extension by the planning depart.

Today: Quasi-Judicial Public Hearing as mandated by the City Council decision

New Architect: Peter Tat-Ping Ko
Landscape Architect: Greg Ing

Reason for Quasi-Judicial Hearing:

   1. Evaluate Proposed West Elevation Wall Design
   2. Evaluate Landscape Details
   3. Evaluate Exterior Building Materials, Colors and Craftmanship

Objection to West Elevation based on Municipal Code Violation 18.18.110

   1. West Elevation Wall Design is out of character and context with rest of the building design. It
      is not consistent nor compatible with that which was originally proposed to this ARB Board or
      City Council by Architect Joe Bellomo.
   2. The side chevrons appear like some sort of tribal pattern and clearly stick out as an add on by
      a different person not related to the original project.
   3. When looking eastward down University Ave, the design is not compatible with the iconic
      Varsity Theatre architecture, Birge Clark former Apple building and the Hotel President.
It is Impossible to Evaluate the Expected Craftsmanship of the building or landscape because the
applicant has not provided any background information, experience or completed past projects of
either the new building architect, contractor, project manager or landscape architect.

   1. Joe Bellomo and associates have disavowed themselves from this design. In a phone
      conversation with Mr. Bellomo, he told Dr. Harbour that “the current design is NOT his” and
      he is “no longer affiliated with the building.” Therefore, the applicant is obligated to resubmit
      the entire plan to the ARB, Council and community in its entirety for evaluation. It these
      plans is not satisfactory, then the ARB must immediately notify the city council of such.
   2. The applicant previously praised her choice of architect for this project as the recipient of
      multiple awards including the Birge Clark Award. She told all of us at a past ARB hearing that
      it would be an “iconic” building that would anchor the existing building at 102 University Ave
      at Alma St. He has a known track record. Now that architect is no longer affiliated and
      disavows this building, this must be taken into consideration for the approval.
   3. The submitted Bellomo project is unique because of it’s construction materials and
      craftsmanship. The applicant and her designees must convince this Board and the appellant
      that they have the experience and capability to construct and manage such a project. What
      can they offer to convince us of this?
   4. It appears that the applicant has committed a “Bait and Switch” tactic to cut costs which will
      result in unknown quality and craftsmanship. This is too important and historic parcel to be
      left to chance without additional scrutiny and confirmation of quality. We must remember
      that Birge Clark designed buildings are to be torn down to construct this new building.
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/17/2018 4:27 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                                  Gloria Pyszka <gpyszka@yahoo.com>
Sent:                                  Friday, August 17, 2018 12:28 PM
To:                                    Council, City
Subject:                               What else? Liz Kniss's comment about traffic.



No, I will not let her comment go, even her last one.

Actually, driving down University is a good first start. But, be adventurous. Do you know where East Charleston is? (Or,
Middlefield, San Antonio Road, Louis, Loma Verde etc). Not all busy streets, but I imagine they're out of your driving zone. First of
all, they're all in the midtown area and southern Palo Alto, those outlying areas of Palo Alto. Charleston is where the huge Google
buses, the speeding BMW's, Teslas, and Audis, etc. drive like crazy, over the tracks, to make the Carlson light. then the Nelson light,
and then the Middlefield light.
C'mon over. I'll treat you to a glass of 2nd growth red and we'll sit out in our lawn chairs, watching and listening to the traffic. But,
we won't be able to talk much b/c during a good deal of the day we won't be able to hear over the traffic.

Best, just sign me the LOL on East Charleston

Gloria Pyszka
284 East Charleston




                                                                    1
                                                                                    Please Contact the Clerk’s Office
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:32 AM                             to View Additional Pages,
                                                                                    Attachments, or Images Related
                                                                                            to this Document
Carnahan, David

From:                            Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Sunday, August 19, 2018 3:27 PM
To:                              rabrica@cityofepa.org; cromero@cityofepa.org; cmartinez@cityofepa.org;
                                 mbuell@cityofepa.org; apardini@cityofepa.org; jalcaraz@cityofepa.org;
                                 fields.randal@gmail.com; paloaltofreepress@gmail.com; myraw@smcba.org;
                                 emibach@padailypost.com; dcbertini@menlopark.org; Jonsen, Robert;
                                 mdiaz@redwoodcity.org; council@redwoodcity.org; stevendlee@alumni.duke.edu;
                                 gkirby@redwoodcity.org; ibain@redwoodcity.org; wilpf.peninsula.paloalto@gmail.com;
                                 price@padailypost.com; Council, City; HRC; jrosen@da.sccgov.org; Kniss, Liz (internal);
                                 molly.o'neal@pdo.sccgov.org; michael.gennaco@oirgroup.com; chuckjagoda1
                                 @gmail.com; stephanie@dslextreme.com; allison@padailypost.com; Binder, Andrew;
                                 Stump, Molly; joe.simitian@bos.sccgov.org; cindy.chavez@bos.sccgov.org;
                                 anna.griffin@rda.sccgov.org; mike.wasserman@bos.sccgov.org;
                                 dprice@padailypost.com; Doug Fort; aflint@scscourt.org; bwalsh@scscourt.org;
                                 rpichon@scscourt.org; Kevin.Nious@nbcuni.com; jpk@pobox.com;
                                 jeffadachi@yahoo.com; essenceoftruth@gmail.com; citycouncil@menlopark.org;
                                 acisneros@capublicrecordslaw.com; rkonda@asianlawalliance.org;
                                 lgauthier@cityofepa.org; Lewis. james; bunnychiba@icloud.com; JIM MINKLER1
Cc:                              Van Der Zwaag, Minka; Constantino, Mary
Subject:                         Why the City of East Palo Alto -should just say NO to Tasers
Attachments:                     Aram James (DJ-1-12-18).pdf


August 19, 2019 ( Article # 2)


Dear East Palo Alto City Council:

In hopes that we can all become more fully informed on the extraordinary risks of injury and death, associated
with Tasers, I am sending members of the city council, and other government officials, et al: a series of articles
on both the moral and financial costs associated with the use of Tasers.

Yesterday (August 18), I sent each of you the awarding winning & comprehensive 7 part series on Tasers
published by Reuters ( August 2017-February 2018). If I missed someone on today’s list, re yesterday’s piece-
please let me know, and I will send it your way.

Today, I am sending, for your information, an article co-written by attorneys Richard Konda and Aram James,
in January of 2018. The article is titled: No excuse for Tasers in our jails ( see pdf below).

The arguments made against the use of Tasers in our jails, are equally applicable to the use of Tasers by law
enforcement, on the streets of our cities.

I believe that the below article provides a well reasoned road map re why cities that have Tasers, should shelve
them, and why cities like East Palo Alto- that have yet to purchase them, should decline to do so.

I look forward to any questions or feedback you have re the article. In a few days, I will be sending out another
article on Tasers, for your contemplation. In the end, I’m hopeful we can all stand united against the use of
Tasers by law enforcement, in our cities, and in our jails. Let the conversation begin.
                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:32 AM



Best regards,

Aram James
State-bar # 80215
415-370-5056




Sent from my iPhone




                                                     2
.




                                                CUBBERLEY
                                                CO-DESIGN



                                  Community Fellows
                                Volunteer Job Description

                                                 Role Overview


    Community Planning Fellows primarily act as the community's tour guide in the planning process. Our
    planning process is a "co-design" process, where the community is proactively engaged in planning and
    design decisions. In this co-design process, residents will work together to propose ideas, negotiate priorities,
    consider options, and give continuous feedback on master planning progress for the Cubberley site. The
    central venue for this co-design engagement will be at four public community meetings that will be structured
    around round-table discussions and activities. The fellow assists in guiding the community to a broad
    understanding of the general acti,,ities and goals of each meeting and helps recruit and spread the word to
    the community to participate at the meetings. Concordia will support fellows in understanding the project and
    process in order to recruit a broad representative group of community members to participate. Concordia
    will support fellows to have familiarity with the process so that they can explain it to their neighbors and
    other community members. Finally, the fellO\v collaborates with Concordia and the client to provide advice
    and feedback about the process to maximize community understanding, participation, and input. Fellows are
    not in a priYileged position when it comes to decisions about project outcomes. At meetings, when project-
    related data is being collected from the community, fellO\vs have equal voice as any other participant. Their
    role as fellows is to be a neutral party in helping others understand how to fully engage in the process. 111ey
    help give the community the tools they need to make informed and educated decisions throughout the
    planning process.
                                                                                                                                       .,..
                                                                                                                                   (




Duties of a Community Planning Fellow



The Community Organizer

As organi7.ers, the fellow's job is to recruit community members that have the capacity to participate over a period of months.
Because the planning process is iteratiYe, each meeting builds on the \vork done at previous meetings. , \lthough each meeting
will be designed to invite newcomers, continuity of participants \viii strengthen the process and help newcomers come
onboard. Finding participants at the outset who arc likely to participate throughout \\'ill return di\·idends to the process. As
an organizer, the fellow reaches out to their own networks and to new networks to reach diverse groups throughout the
community and inform them of the upcoming co-design process. This involves the abilit) to communicate with people of
varying professions, ages, and cultural groups to help people communicate \Vith one another, to convince people that it is
\\'Orth giving their time to the effort, and most importantly, to lead in such a way that encourages other~ to lead themsekes.
The effort of thi organizing will be greatest prior to the first meeting, but will repeat prior to each of the following meetings
to remind those networks of the upcoming event and share the results from the previous meetings.



The Educator

Throughout the process, fellows are educating community members about the co-design process and assisting them in
understanding tasks at meetings. These responsibilities require skills including the abilit)' to explain things clearly, active
listening, and patience. Prior to meetings, this education is part and parcel to the outreach and organizing effort, and im·okes
informing others about the goals of the project and how the process is unfolding in collaboration with the communit)·.
bringing people up to speed prior to the communit)- meetings.



Meeting Support Staff

The fellow is a support staff to the community to give them what they need to make the decisions for the planning process.
Fellows will also help with meeting set-up and take-down, \vhich may involve laying out meeting materials and refreshments
and generally preparing the space to be organized and accommodating to the community. The fellow's dedication to the
community is often best demonstrated through these acti,·ities.



Table Hosts

Fellows may be required to act as "table hosts" to assist meeting participants in follO\ving the agenda and completing activities
during the meetings. A table host is someone at the table who helps others understand the activities and ensures participation
from everyone at the table. Distinct from a traditional facilitator, the table host can also participate in the activity and give their
input like everyone else but ts tasked in making sure all voices are heard and reflected in the input collected on the table sheet.
As a table host, a feUow must be able to think on his or her feet and be a good listener. It is not the role of a table host to do
any tasks for others or push an agenda. The table host encourages the table group to work through questions in collaboration
with each other.
Leadership Qualities of a Fellow

1.   Respect: J\Iust be able to appreciate a diversity of viewpoints and treat everyone with respect and compassion.

2.   Active Listening: Being receptive to what others are saying and asking the right questions, rather than fulfilling
     expectations for answers.

3. Verbal Facilitation: Ability to speak confidently and with ease, in clear, simple language that e\•eryone can understand.
   Ability to direct attention to the tasks at hand, providing focus and structure to the conversation \vhile also nurturing
   creativity and easy flow of ideas.

4.   Team-Building: Interpersonal skills and experience in putting together working groups O\'er a sustained period of time.
     The ability to facilitate the development of a shared vision around a table and foster a sense of 'we' that feels inclusive and
     engaging to all.

5.   Mediation: Ability to clarify points of \·iew and shared or differing values in neutral terms. This doesn't mean papering
     O\'er disagreements, but engaging in them with a calm, constructive, and respectful way, so all views can be fully expressed
     and discussed in a spirit of learning and understanding.

6.   Openness: Being open and flexible with ideas and able to help others be creative. Especially at the beginning of th.i ·
     process, there are no foolish or unrealistic ideas. The space around the table should welcome creativity, imagination, and
     encouragement.



Expectations and Time Commitment


Community fellows will be expected to participate in a 1.5 day training session in early September (tentatively planned
between September 5th and September 8th) which will prepare tl1e fellows for the project and also provide general coaching
on community-based planning. .r\fter tl1is training session, fellows will be expected to ,-olunteer roughly 10-15 hours per
meeting, which includes time spent conducting outreach in the month preceding the meeting, communication, an activity
run-tlu-ough the day prior to the meeting (can be in person or by video-conference), and day-of meeting preparation and
participation.




Next Steps

If you arc interested in becoming a Community Fellow for the Cubberley Co-Design process or ha,·e an) questions, please
contact Bobbie Hill at bhill@concordia.com and 30-1-.5-H.2653.




                                                                       Q
                                                                           CI T Y O F

                                   ~ Palo J\lto                            PALO
                               -     Unifi ed '-clt•K>l   l.>1-rl!Lt       ALTO
                                                                                         concordia
                                                                            MEET~N~ 1:.· 8/lG/ 2018
                                                                          QUNCIL
                                                                        lM~~t ~ l 'ro1 tK , · __u--
                                                                          lPciCed Before Meeting .-;.;
                                                                          ] Received at Meeting  - ··.
                                                                                                         c:...++5
                                                                   '




                                                   CUBBERLEV
                                                   CO-DESIGN



A
WPALOALTO
               c1TY OF                                      Palo Alto
                                                            Unitinl s,·llllol   D1\ 1J Ill
                                                                                             concordio




                                                   Concordia: harmony and agreement among
                                                   people and things.

                                                   It's our one word mission statement.

                                                   We create authentic community-centered
                                                   processes and spaces shaped by the people
concordia
architecture   I planning I commun1ty engagement
                                                   who will use them every day.




                                                                                                                    1
                                                                        8/16/2018 '




      Where we've worked:                         How we think:




                                       ...
...                           . ...... .
                      ·.
                 .. ··.: ..
                                                      ORGAN IZAT ON



                                             NEXUS PLANNING FRAMEWORK




                                                                                2
                                                                8/16/2018




EMERYVILLE CENTER OF COMMUNITY LIFE
                       EMERYVILLE. CA
  Global Award of Excellence, 2017-2018, Urban Land Institute




                                                                        3
                                                        8/16/2018 .




PROGRAM OPTIMIZATION




      o office     Community   0   Additional Program
      •   School   Shared          Capability




                                                                4
                                                                                                                  8/16/2018




   INCREASED UTILIZATION                                    COST SAVINGS


                                            •
                                  • Conceptual Master Plan Program
                                             Program Right-Sized




         Qi
         u..
            (I)
                     250000


                     200000



                     150000
                              3
                                  I         j
                                                       • Highly Utilized


                                                                 t
                                                                  • Additional Program Added
                                                                  I
                                                                           i
                                                                            • Additional Optimization



            ...ca
            (I)


            :::::J
            C"
         en          100000



                      50000


                          0




                                                                                                  SPORTS FIELD

                                                                                                  K-8 SCHOOL

                                                                                                  LEARNING
                                                                                                  GARDEN

                                                                                                  TOWN HALL

 MULTI-PURPOSE
 THEATER
                                                                                                  COMMUNITY
                                                                                                  COMMONS

  LIBRARY
                                                                                                  SENIOR CENTER
HEALTH CLINIC




                                                                                                                          5
8/16/2018 .




        6
                 8/16/2018




Table#




         /   I




                         7
                                                                                                                   8/16/.2018 '




                                                   rr..m
                                                    I
                                                       .- r-I
                                                                I ''




                                                        - ~!. ~
                                                   ··-=:~~
                                                    --__- rI - - ,-




                                                                                ;;. II   l   --
                                                                            -.     ~ . ~-­
                                                                            .      w~~




         M icrobrewery                                                 Welcome Area
      Culinary Kitchen                                                 Cafe/Pub
    Recreational Rental




                                                                                                  Rooftop Lounge
                                                                                                  & Roof Deck




           Game Area
     Conference Room - -
             Play Area -     1-
                              ..Jj.J
                                 ""'_      ___..
Flexible/Multi-use space - - ""     -:.~




                                                                                                                            8
                                                                                                                                   8/16/2018




                                             CUBBERLEY
                                             CO-DESIGN



f t CITY                OF
                                                                 Palo.Alto
WPALOALTO                                                        Uniti,·d S.-h,Hll   Di~1 rict
                                                                                                              concordia




  PHASE 1
    PREP
    Dovelop workplan nnd
    cmgagt?mc:nt p1 oces;                                                                                -. -...-
                                                                                                         .,
                                                                                                          ~.
                                             ~ Assets, N•eds, and Programming Brainstorm
    L~ARN                                    V     (late Septemberi                                                       ... ..
    Engage wrth st~lcehold rs and
    Pvo11luc"te c'usting con munity
    assets
    PROC. RAM
    Est..Jbli~h pt"09ram mix: ;md
                                           // /8    Programming Vision


    dev.elop thr~e progJ.lm            /
    diag1ams


  PHASE 2
    DESIGN
    Develop conceptual designs
                                      ~---   S      Design Scenario Development                  [ '
                                                                                                       -~ .E!!i , .55- l
                                                                                                              ~;;;



    DOCUMENT
    Draft Master Plan Document
                                                                                                                     ,I ~,•


    COMMENT
    Public reviow and comments
                                      2----s        Draft Master Plan Evaluation
                                                                                                                     ~.       .




    FINISH MASTER PLAN


  ARCHrTECTURAL DESIGN TO FOLLOW




                                                                                                                                           9
                                                                                                                                                                      8/16/.2018 '




                                           Community Stakeholders
                                              Needs and Goals




                                     City of Palo Alto                        PAUSD
                       Constraints, Needs and Goals                           Constrrnnts, Needs, and Goals




                                                                                                       Secondary School Subcommittee

                                                                                                                 ---·...     ....,_
                                                                                                                           ""'

                                                      __ _____ . __.. ··-
                                                  ··--··
                                                  ...........   ,_.,.,       ,,_
                                                  - ··-·---·;.-
                                                  -·- ..·--·... ....... -·-·--···
                                                                                                                                      _+
                                                                                                                                       PALOALn>UttffDKotOCLDl&l'hCT

                                                                                                                                           9 1RATEOIC PLAN
                                                                                                                                           f.•• pl d   ••r n nn
                                                                                                       """""'"""'_,,,,,__ .,...,,.,
                                                  -_.__. ___             ·.• - _
                                                           ....,.. .,,_ .....~-
                                                                                 ,..,._,_n-.... _
                                                                               .....
                                                                                  ...· - - ..... . -

          ·-
                                                  ::.;:-:~:-.!=.;:--....;!::=:-




        ------w
"""""'-..~4   ....... --~--




                                                                                                                                                                             10
                                                                                                                                                                                  8/16/2018




                                                                                                                              Asset Mapping

        .                     "'
                                  •
                             . ..                                                                    -..

                                                                                     "
                ~-!'; ;            •                                                            :
       ... "'             · ·.
                    -~.....
                                       r.•
                                                                       •
. .·
~·               -=~                                   .
                                                                                          "·.
                                       .       .....
                                                                           ..
                       ..                  ~
                                                               •
                                                                           4
                                                                               •
                                                                                ~·
                                                                                     .:
                                                                                     ...
                                                                       •
                                                                                                1=
                                                           ~       "           ·.·
                                                                                                                                    ORGANIZATION




                                                                                                                                                                      ...
                                                                                                                                                          •
                                                                                                                              Asset Mapping
                                                                                                                                •
                                                                                                           :\
                                                                                                           \
                                                                                                                \
                                                                                                                    ..
                                                                                                                                                                            ...
                                                                                                                                                                            •
                                                                                                                                                                                .
                                                                                                                                •          ~
                                                                                                                                               ' r'~1
                                                                                                                                                   ii ~:\.,    .. ~
                                                                                                                         '\
                                                                                                                                               •    ~,,..f"-


                                                                                                                                                          '


                                                                                                                                       •


                                                                                                                                                      •




                                                                                                                                                                                         11
                                                                                                                                                                                                    8/16/2018




                                                                    TtNANfS                                      llOOMNUMIU
         Oty of Palo A'to                                           "~                                           ll rn.n<1
         Cubberley Community Center                                 ... ,   .. (dr,1unon
                                                                                  .... C.nter                    01
                                                                         T11it                                   E.FUwlnqs
                                                                    4,,.n,d,;i~                                  l buikl11111(uJJ'l4iuLB4,8S
                                                                    111111\"y...                                 OS
                                                                                                                 02
                                                                                                                 DI
                                                                     • • •iat•t.,•11•.~•rt k>r t•""              Gaus
                                                                    C~lld11n'•Ptei.<hoolC..n111                  Tl
                                                                    C?lh... wbO!r1U                              l bulkl~.fint llo:n
                                                                                                                 04
                                                                                                                 T1
                                                                    t>4ol'!f .. c.o.,r-<~                        l~Md JI       14
                                                                    °'l•11t~M• •c-                               )6
                                                                    :l ~!IC • \l•i.>01'1~                        Ll
                                                                    lr.tnC111f 1 Jw1tabAltoL~r1                  G9,H4 , R.Q
                                                                    ~1'11>.d   Kief;   l~~r   CDC, HC)           M,i\S
                                                                    Go,)dfM!fhb:;l r Met11ft$CTI
                                                                    tiu•    If...,,. CW,..• w                     "'·"'
                                                                                                                 "'"81
                                                                                                ~.Oit1 1 1teom




                                                                     .
                                                                    '• >·


                                                                    1macinnonkh«?I
                                                                    \fYGell&l~ncu•
                                                                                   I•       • •\,\   _.



                                                                                                                  "'06 Bl.a&
                                                                                                                 82

                                                                    lili1"'1W.wlomScl':ool
                                                                    Ma&..l                                       "'
                                                                                                                 VI
                                                                                                                 K6MM.IV2
                                                                                                                 NI
                                                                                                                 JS
                                                                    l\tl'll"' ·ni....,.,-.r10
                                                                    II: AO!

                                                                                                                 .",
                                                                                                                 111 1'.:I
                                                                    s,11 1: "'"''•1•""'':•                       G7

                                                                    I "
                                                                    HDUlt.Y RlNTAl Sl'AQ
                                                                                                                 "
                                                                                                                 A-116.7
                                                                                                                 0·1

                                                                                                                 ,..,
                                                                                                                 O·I

                                                                                                                 ....
cw mos
                                                                    -- ....                                      .,,
                                                                                                                 ... ..
                                                                                                                 M-1




                                                                     ...
                                                                                                                 G~

                                                                    ,,                                           l-6
                                                                                                                 G·l
                                                                                                                 G-J
                                                                                                                 t-4 tsame •s cMdJK 1MuP.f1
                                                                                                                 N-1 rBallr:iom~ncingM~o'l     Fndtyt.lb.1 1h!b.ill t ouro.)
                                                                                                                 A1n91.tht.iter
                                                                                                                 l hNltt




Cubberley: Current Indoor Space Use
                            Outdoor Athletics
                    (track. fields. tennis courts) "'-,,                                                                                        INOOOOR SPACE USE

   Outdoor Athletics -                   A
   (indoor space)            ~



                                                 Indoor Excercise
                                                    and Health
         Flexible Rental w/ Indoor
            Spaces Excercise Focus                                                                                                                    Total Progiom Space               177.DOO
                            (Gyms & Rentoble                                                                                                          Mech. Molntencnce Olher            11.000
                              Dance Studio)                                                                                                           Toto! Gross Square Footage        198,DOO



         w/ Music & theatre
                focus
              (Theatre &
              Auditorium                                                                                  Childcare
                                                                                                           (0-2.5)

                                                                                                                                                  Overlapping Iii Shared Uses
                                                     Office &                                                                                         Early Ch'ldhood Ed                  8 739
                 Music & Theatre
                                                                                                                                                      Theotre & Aud torium               20.420
                                                      other                   Religious                                                            Sen or progmms w I e lC cerctSO        5,347
                                                                                                                                                 Q lndoor OKCeJdse w/ Senior focus        7 ll:XJ
                                                                                                                                                   flex;bJe space w I e •ercise focus    15.064




                                                                                                                                                                                                          12
                                                                                                                            8/16/2018




  Existing Site Conditions

                                                                      Green Space              Building Footprint
                                                                      (Active & Passive):      4.1 acres
                                                                      14.3 acres


                                                                                                      Parking and
                                                                                                      Access Roads:
                                                                                                      7.5 acres




                                                                                                 Sidewalks and Pedestrian
                                                                                                 Paving: 8.6 acres




  Zoning Limitations

Zoning when abutting
Rl residential zone                                                   50' max
                                                        35' max        hetght
                                                          hetght      not with-
                                                       within 150'   in 150'of
          10 inibal height                             of property    property
                                                          line         hne


                 20' setback
     street
                               150' Imm property Hne
                                                                                  Max Height




Zoning when abutting                                                  50' max
                                                                       height
commercial zone                                                       not with·
                                                                     in 150'of
                                                                      property
          10 Initial height
                                                                        fine



                 20' setback
     street
                               150' Imm property •ne




                                                                                                                                   13
8/16/.2018 .




       14
8/16/2018




       15
'



                                               l
                                                   com~ \.loo\
                                                   ill          ME~          \
                                                                       ~ \llu l<&
                                                       Placed Before Meet1Dg
                                                   ~   Received at Meeting   45




                                   CUBBERLEY
                                   CO-DESIGN




                       Project Information




                                         CITY OF

    Palo Alto                            PALO
    l.'nificd Sc hool Di-,u il r
                                    •
                                         ALTO
                                                     concordia
                                                                                                                                        ('Q- .    1'




About the Cubberley Site

The Cubberley site is 35-acre site near the southeastern border of Palo
Alto and is the last, largest parcel of publicly-owned land in the City that
has a near-term opportunity for redeYclopment for community benefit.
The Palo i\lto Unified School District (P.c\USD) owns 27 acres of the site,
and the rest is owned by the City of Palo ,\Ito.

The site was home to Cubberley High School from 1956 to 1979, when
it closed clue to declined school enrollment. In 1990, the site reopened
as Cubberley Community Center. The City operates Cubberley through
a lease ag reement with P1\USD. The Center is home to over thirty
permanent tenants and provides hourly rental space for special events. 111c
programs at the site include early childhood education, artist studios, three
dance studios, language classes, martial arts, sports, health sen ·ices, and
                                                                                                                     E -.:isl111g   )1/t f>!a11
many other programs. These service-providers depend on Cubberley for
its affordable rents and the benefits of having other community programs
and rcntable spaces nearby.                                                     Current Tenants:
                                                                                .6-crne l:ducolion Cenler
                                                                                .Ari of L1'-1u-19
                                                                                .l\r 11' ts Sludios
                                                                                AJer-i i dJ~
Why does it need a Master Plan?                                                 Br01nv'y'ne
                                                                                Colifornio Lo 1. l~svis i .x1
                                                                                                 1,


                                                                                Cohforn10 Pops Orches ti o
                                                                                Cc:rr:i101 _ !h e. r a p~,· 1-leort· for L1f1::
Cubberlc:y is a valuable asset to the community and to the School District.
                                                                                Children s Preschool Con/er
The buildings on the site are coming to an encl of their functional life
                                                                                c1-1ines0 for Chi isr
and it is time for new facilities to be planned so Cubberley can continue       Olv uf r'o lo .Alto - OCS
to sen"e the community in the long-term. The master planning process            C ~bbcr C-'Y Center Cffico
\vill study ways that the site can provide new and improved facilities for      Dunce Conr 1ecl1 on
the programs at the Cubberley Community Center while also planning for          D::::11ce fvlog1c
future school use on the site.                                                  Do nee Vision
                                                                                Friend:, of tl1e Po lo Allo L1brc11v
                                                                                Ger1ius <ios
                                                                                Gooci f\le1qt1b or tvl cnlt~ssori
                                                                                I lisloric So.:: 1e l\
What are the goals of the Project?                                              Hua ~uo nQ Chinese ~'ec:v.::lil-1<;.J Po.:::rn
                                                                                Polo .Allo I lislo11c ol Socie ly
                                                                                P.:..1lu .L\llo f lurnone Soc ie lv
                                                                                Polo Allo Clicwnt.:x.:r Orc hes lr.::1
The ultimate goal is to create a flexible and adaptable master plan for         Ir nngino l1 on School
the Cubberley site that accommodates the short-term, medium-term,               Iv'/ Goal [cluco lio1-1
and long-term needs of the School District, the City, and the community         Living VV1sci0rn Schoo1
at large. The master plan will illustrate future facilities on the site,        tvloke X
demonstrating both form and function. It will include a phasing plan            fv1c locly':, Music
that will show the order of construction and demolition that will best          tvhnoritv • rO)ecl
                                                                                Polo Al lo Soccer
accommodate program continuity. If successful, the School District and
                                                                                Ronger foekwonclo
the City will adopt the plan and cooperate on plan implementation.
                                                                                RE.A.Cl-I
                                                                                Silicon Vc: llev Korote
                                                                                Slonford Socce1·ClulJ
                                                                                Zohor
How did this project come about?

Community members came together to form the Cubberley Community
Advisory Committee in 2012 to study the current conditions and the
future opportunities at Cubberley. In working groups dedicated to School
Needs, Community Needs, Facilities, and Finance, the committee engaged
the City, the School District, and Cubberley tenants to analyze possible
outcomes for the site. Their final report recommended that the best
outcome would be for the City and the School Disa:ict to come together
to commission a master plan that accommodates the needs of the
community center and a potential future school, with potential for shared-
use facilities.

The City and School Board have done just that. After an 8-month long
Request for Proposals process, the City and School District jointly selected
and hired Concordia to lea<l the master planning process.




What will the process look like?

Concordia will work with the community in a "Co-Design Process." This
will entail four, iterative community meetings \vhere community-members
will work together to identify needs, propose opportunities, discuss
options, and generally guide tl1e master-planning process towards win-win
solutions. At each meeting, participants will engage in one to two activities
designed to gather pertinent information and perspectives on key project
decisions.

The first meeting, planned for O ctober 4th at the Cubberley Pavilion, will
focus on community assets, nee<ls, goals, and ideation about the future
program and potential joint uses. At the second meeting, participants will
work to evaluate program options and hone in on the program vision
for the site. The third meeting will focus on site design, and the look and
feel of the buildings on site. 1\t the fourth and final meeting, participant ·
will evaluate and respond to the draft master plan. Following this meeting
and concurrent plan review processes, Concordia \Vill revise the plan and
deliver the final master plan for the site.

See the following page for the process timeline.




                                                                                 E_,:a111ple ro1J111111m(J meetwgs r1rlmfles
                                                                                                                           ·•




Process Timeline
                                                                              r  Al   rr~ eet111gs   will tok.e ploce at
                                                                                  l pm at tl1e Cubberley Povil1on


                                                     !

PHASE 1
- - EP1-\RE   I 1\jQ LE" IY'
                                                         \   -
Concordia will de\•elop the work-plan, including
stakeholder and community engagement plan,
review all relevant information and plans,
conduct initial stakeholder outreach, and
e\'aluate community assets and needs.                L1 -
                                                                 €9 Community Meeting l
                                                                    Early October
                                                                    V1s1on Gools orxJ Program
Through the Co-design process, Concordia, the
School District, the City, and the community
will establish the vision and goals for the
                                                                 @ Community Meeting 2
                                                                    N.Jvernber l st
project, explore program options and joint
                                                                    Hor11ng tl1e Progrorn vision
use possibilities, create three program scenario
diagrams, and then hone in on a preferred
program scenario for the site.




PHASE 2
DESIGN
Building on the program phase, the design                         3 Community Meeting 3
phase will focus on concepnial design options to                    January )4tl1
accommodate the program and fit contextually                        Design Scenario Developrnent
within the neighborhood, ultimately arri\'ing at a
preferred design option.


DOCUMENT
Concordia will draft the Cubberlev t.Iaster Plan
Report based on the chosen conceptual design.


COMMENT
The draft document will be reYicwed by the
community at Meeting ..J. and by the City and                     4 Community Meeting 4
                                                                    Moy 9t1-1
PAUSD Commissions, and other relevant
Boards and Councils.
                                                                    Rev1ev11 Drott Moster Pion


FINISH
Concordia will integrate all comments into the
Final Cubberley Master Plan. The plan will serve
as the basis for architectural design.
                                                                   . 0?"'-
                                                     l
                                                         "'"'"'"~
                                                             i1~ 1.
                                                         [ } Placed Before Meeting
                                                         { ] Received at Meeting


My name is Monica Williams. I am here on behalf of the members of the
Palo Alto Pickleball Club, based at Mitchell Park. I started playing with 10
people about 4 years ago. We founded our club 2 years ago with-6"5'
members9'since last November, when you so graciously honored us with a
proclamation supporting our activities, we have grown to over 350
members, 150 of whom are Palo Alto residents.

Unfortunately, since there are as yet no permanent Pickleball courts, we
still have to put up and take down portable nets every time we play.

We've been working with the Parks and Recreation Commission for over
two years now, to try to get dedicated pickleball courts. In response to
their requests, we have provided significant amounts of data - membership
figures, number of players and hours that they play, costs of converting one
tennis court into 4 pickleball courts, etc. In addition, we have shared
information about new pickleball courts being built throughout the Bay
Area: the cities of Santa Cruz and Foster City have them. San Francisco
has just built 6, and work is underway to build two permanent courts at
Rengstorff Park in Mountain View.

The number of pickleball tournaments throughout the country is growing
fast, In fact, the Indian Wells Tennis Garden near Palm Springs will be
hosting the National Pickleball Championships this year and has signed a
contract to host them for the next 5 years. Within 15 minutes of opening
registration, the tournament was full with 2000 entrants.

Pickleball is no longer is geared only to seniors; we have 5.0 tennis
players who've joined our membership and children as young as 10 years
old. But as of yet, we have failed to make any headway with the Parks &
Recreation Commission.

We know land in Palo Alto is scarce, and pickleball is noisy, but we are
focusing on an ideal location away from residences - the 3 existing
dilapidated tennis courts, next to the Magical Bridge Playground. Every
weekday we have, on average, 40 people playing or learning to play
pickleball. On Saturdays and Sundays the numbers double.
[To convert only one of these to pickleball, and stripe 2 of the tennis courts
for multi use at the same time as they are resurfaced would be at
minimal cost and our club is willing to help with the funding.]
I just wanted to make you all aware that many Palo Alto residents are
unhappy that, despite doing everything that has been asked of us in terms
of gathering information, there appears to be no progress toward
Permanent pickleball courts. _I hope that I have better news to report after
the next Commission meeting.

Thank you for your time.
Greetings City Council Members,

So I have been apprised of the complaint that Elizabeth Wong has with the under parked design
for 620 Emerson St. to expand the Nobu Restaurant.
I don't think we should approve any more under parked structures, period. However, it seems
there is some lack of integrity here, as Ms. Wong's building
is under parked as well.

Since she wants a PASZ opinion, I can only speak for myself, but we are FOR all buildings
being ....fully parked.
       -==      ;
Suzanne Keehn
PASZ Steering Committee

~~~~60nne St.       -   <1 ~ y(/~ . . /
Y.. tl~ tf'P-6 ~
                             Bay Area Water Supply & Conservation Agency
  Statement from Tom Francis, Acting Chief Executive Officer, Before the Palo Alto City
 Council About the State Water Resources Control Board (State Board)'s "Draft Final Bay-
 Delta Plan Update," (Plan) Which Could Severely Reduce the Water Supply for Residents
            and Businesses in Alameda, San Mateo, and Santa Clara Counties

                                                    August20,2018

BAWSCA is a state-authorized agency that represents the interests of the 26 water suppliers who
purchase two-thirds of the water produced by the San Francisco Regional (Hetch Hetchy) Water
System (System), which is operated by the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission (SFPUC).
Palo Alto is one of those water suppliers. BAWSCA backs the staff recommended action being
considered by the Palo Alto City Council tonight. The resolution crafted by staff supports a
negotiated settlement process and aligns with the approach embraced by the California
Department of Water Resources.

On July 6th, the State Board released its "Draft Final Bay-Delta Plan Update." If implemented, the
Plan could seriously reduce water supply during the next drought; forcing severe water reductions
for the 1.8 million residents, 40,000 businesses and community agencies in Alameda, San Mateo,
and Santa Clara counties, including in Palo Alto.

BAWSCA understands the value of the Bay-Delta ecosystem and recognizes that the status quo
is not sustainable. BAWSCA supports the objectives of the Plan, however we have major
concerns with its details. BAWSCA's analysis indicates that if this proposal is implemented,
water users could be required to reduce average per person water use to 41 gallons a day during
a drought, from the recent pre-drought level of 79 gallons per day, and for some people, to 25
gallons per day or less.

This severe water cutback could threaten jobs as business activity might be reduced or
prevented. Community development might be delayed, and new housing might not be built. A
community without enough water for fully operational businesses, hospitals and public institutions
is unsustainable.

Fortunately, there is a sound, reasonable alternative to the State Board's Plan. The SFPUC has
proposed, and BAWSCA supports, a science-based alternative that will meet the environmental
objectives without an unrealistically low water supply for current water users. The alternative plan
can be a basis for voluntary settlement negotiations.

BAWSCA supports the objective of the State Board's Bay-Delta Plan, opposes details of the
Board's proposed unilateral Plan for the Tuolumne River, and is encouraged to see that the State
Board intends to delay action on its Plan. A delay will allow more time for the development of a
voluntary, negotiated settlement agreement. Therefore, BAWSCA supports Palo Alto staff's
recommended action before the Council tonight.

                                                            " " 'IJ'I'
                                                           l'Utlrrh




    155 Bovet Road, Suite 650,   •   San Mateo, CA 94402   •   ph 650 349 3000   •   fx 650349 8395   •   www.bawsca.org
August 15, 2018
TO: STATE, CITY AND LOCAL OFFICIALS
NOTICE OF PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY'S REQUEST TO INCREASE RATES FOR
ELECTRIC TRANSPORTATION PROJECTS IN SCHOOLS AND STATE PARKS (A.18-07-020)
Summary
On July 30, 2018, Pacific Gas and Electric Company (PG&E) filed its Electric Transportation application for schools and
state parks with the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC). The application requests an increase in rates of $7.4
million for the following electric vehicle pilot programs:
• Schools: Installation of electric vehicle charging stations in specific schools in Alameda, Fresno, and San Joaquin
counties. Along with charging stations and related utility infrastructure, PG&E will host educational events and provide
information to increase awareness and knowledge of clean transportation.
• State Parks: Installation of electric vehicle charging stations and related utility infrastructure at select California state
parks for use by both state park fleet vehicles and park visitors.


Background
PG&E's application will support California's goal of increasing the number of electric vehicle charging stations and will
help promote the adoption of electric vehicles across the state. Schools and parks are both highly visible locations where
people come to learn and observe. Installing electric vehicle charging stations at these locations not only provides easy
access to students, employees and the public, but also creates a platform to educate the public on how the use of electric
vehicles can benefit California.


How will PG&E's application affect me?                                                                         -   n£2
Many customers receive bundled electric service from PG&E, meaning they receive electric generation, tr@>missiali and
distribution services. Based on rates currently in effect, the bill for a typical residential bundled non-CARE cczsto~sing
500 kWh per month would increase $111.59 to $111.61, or 0.02 percent.                                          ~ r-..,,
                                                                                                               0' " '   f'T'l-0
                                                                                                                        :::o.l>
Actual impacts will vary depending on energy usage.                                                                     :x•
                                                                                                               :a=-     c.no
                                                                                                               :x       cl>
How will PG&E's application affect customers who buy electrlclty from a third party?                           "!'-}    =:::~
Direct Access and Community Choice Aggregation customers only receive electric transmission and           distriWtio~ices
from PG&E. On average, these customers will see an increase of 0.02 percent.                                   _,          >
Departing Load customers do not receive electric generation, transmission or distribution services from PG&E. However,
they are required to pay certain charges as required by law or CPUC decision. These customers will not be impacted by
this application.


How. do I find out more about PG&E's proposals?
If you have questions about PG&E's filing, please contact PG&E at 1-800-743-5000. For TTY, call 1-800-652-4712. Para
mas detalles llame al 1-800-660-6789 • 1¥'111l¥J(tl 1-800-893-9555. If you would like a copy of PG&E's filing and exhibits,
please write to PG&E at the address below:

Pacific Gas and Electric Company
Electric Transportation Schools and State Parks Application (A.18-07-020)
P.O. Box 7442
San Francisco, CA 94120

A copy of PG&E's filing and exhibits is also available for review at the CPUC's Central Files office by appointment only.
For more information, contact aljcentralfilesid@cpuc.ca.gov or 1-415-703-2045. PG&E's application (without exhibits) is
available on the CPUC's website at www.cpuc.ca.gov.


CPUC process
This application will be assigned to an Administrative Law Judge (Judge) who will determine how to receive evidence and
other related documents necessary for the CPUC to establish a record upon which to base its decision. Evidentiary


                                                                1
hearings may be held where parties will present their testimony and may be subject to cross-examination by other parties.
These evidentiary hearings are open to the public, but only those who are formal parties in the case can participate.

After considering all proposals and evidence presented during the hearings, the assigned Judge will issue a proposed
decision which may adopt PG&E's proposal, modify it or deny it. Any of the five CPUC Commissioners may sponsor an
alternate decision. The proposed decision, and any alternate decisions, will be discussed and voted upon at a scheduled
CPUC Voting Meeting.

The Office of Ratepayer Advocates (ORA) may review this application. ORA is the independent consumer advocate within
the CPUC with a legislative mandate to represent investor-owned utility customers to obtain the lowest possible rate for
service consistent with reliable and safe service levels. ORA has a multidisciplinary staff with expertise in economics,
finance, accounting and engineering. For more information about ORA, please call 1-415-703-1584, email
ora@cpuc.ca.gov or visit ORA's website at www.ora.ca.gov.


Stay informed
If you would like to follow this proceeding, or any other issue before the CPUC, you may use the CPUC's free subscription
service. Sign up at: http://subscribecpuc.cpuc.ca.gov. If you would like to learn how you can participate in the
proceeding, have informal comments about the application or have questions about the CPUC processes, you may
access the CPUC's Public Advisor Office (PAO) webpage at http://consumers.cpuc.ca.gov/pao.

You may also contact the PAO as follows:
Email: publlc.advisor@cpuc.ca.gov
Mail: CPUC
Public Advisor's Office
505 Van Ness Avenue
San Francisco, CA 94102
Call: 1-866-849-8390 (toll-free) or 1-415-703-2074
TTY: 1-866-836-7825 (toll-free) or 1-415-703-5282

If you are contacting the CPUC, please include the application number (Electric Transportation Schools and State Parks
Application; A.18-07-020). All comments will be circulated to the Commissioners, the assigned Judge and appropriate
CPUC staff and will become public record.




                                                           2
