    CITY OF         City of Palo Alto                                  (ID # 9720)
    PALO
    ALTO            City Council Staff Report

Report Type: Informational Report           Meeting Date: 11/26/2018

Summary Title: Annual Report for FY 18 Santa Clara County Multi-
Jurisdictional Flood Preparedness Awareness

Title: Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 Annual Evaluation Report for the Santa Clara
County Multi-Jurisdictional Program for Public Information on Flood
Preparedness Awareness and Resulting Community Rating System Flood
Insurance Discounts

From: City Manager

Lead Department: Public Works

Recommendation
This is an informational report and no Council action is required.

Background
The Community Rating System (CRS) is a voluntary program under the Federal
Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) National Flood Insurance Program
(NFIP) that allows communities to earn flood insurance premium discounts for
their residents and businesses. Communities earn CRS credit points for activities
that promote flood risk reduction practices and encourage residents to purchase
flood insurance. CRS class ratings are assigned at 500-point increments, and each
improvement in class rating nets an additional 5% flood insurance premium
discount. The CRS class ratings range from 1 to 10, with 10 being the lowest rating
and 1 being the highest. The City of Palo Alto has participated in the CRS program
since 1990 and is currently rated as a Class 6 community, affording residents and
businesses a 20% discount on their flood insurance premiums. Neighboring cities
have earned similar CRS ratings (Mountain View – 8, East Palo Alto – 8, Los Altos –
8, Sunnyvale – 7).

The CRS Coordinator’s Manual includes the option to implement a regional
Program for Public Information (PPI). Under the PPI, a community or group of

City of Palo Alto                                                             Page 1
communities work together to create customized flood risk reduction outreach
messages. These coordinated messages are delivered to residents through
handouts, mailers, electronic messages, etc. By disseminating these messages
each community earns points that can improve their CRS rating. The number of
CRS credit points earned depends on how extensive the implemented program is
within each community’s boundaries. Staff estimates that the City of Palo Alto
could earn up to 340 points for its PPI efforts.

The total dollar savings for Santa Clara County residents from CRS flood insurance
premium discounts is approximately $2.3 million per year. City of Palo Alto
residents and businesses pay $3.6 million (per FEMA data as of August 31, 2018)
for flood insurance premiums per year. The total savings from the 20% insurance
discount achieved by the City on behalf of its residents due to its CRS participation
is approximately $712,663 per year (per FEMA data as of August 31, 2018).
Without CRS, residents and businesses would have paid $4.3 million. The
objectives of the City’s participation in the Santa Clara County Multi-Jurisdictional
PPI program are to enhance the effectiveness of the flood risk messages to
residents, reduce flood risks, and maintain or improve the City’s CRS class rating
of 6.

As required by the terms of the PPI, the regional PPI committee must convene
annually to evaluate whether the flood risk reduction messages are still
appropriate and adjust them as needed. A report to FEMA must be submitted
annually describing the PPI implementation. The annual report is transmitted to
the city council of each participating agency as an informational document,
updating the councils on the various flood preparedness and awareness outreach
programs that the Santa Clara County Multi-Jurisdictional PPI has undertaken for
the past year.

Discussion
The annual report for 2018 Santa Clara County Multi-Jurisdictional PPI is attached
as information for Council (Attachment A). The annual report highlights the
elements of the flood safety outreach programs implemented by the eleven Santa
Clara County communities (Cupertino, Gilroy, Los Altos, Milpitas, Morgan Hill,
Mountain View, Palo Alto, San Jose, Santa Clara, Santa Clara County, and
Sunnyvale) that participate in CRS, along with the Santa Clara Valley Water
District.

City of Palo Alto                                                               Page 2
The Santa Clara Valley Water District acts as the lead agency in developing the PPI
and prepares the annual report. The District hosted the PPI development process
in November of 2013 and 2014, staff and stakeholders from each communities
participated in the drafting of the Plan that was finalized in April 2015. The
worksheet on Appendix A lists the outreach projects, implementing agencies, and
the messages associated with each of the projects.

Every year, the legislative bodies of all participating communities must re-approve
the PPI plan to continue receiving CRS credit. The 2017 Santa Clara County Multi-
Jurisdictional PPI was approved by Council on May 14, 2018 (CMR# 9053). Staff
will continue to provide information to Council on the Santa Clara County Multi-
Jurisdictional PPI on a yearly basis and after the end of each Fiscal Year to achieve
the maximum CRS credit points and the associated flood insurance premium
discounts for the community.
Attachments:
    Attachment A: PPI Annual Evaluation Report FY18 Year 3




City of Palo Alto                                                               Page 3
                                             Attachment A




Annual Evaluation Report for FY18 (Year 3)
             (July 2017 to June 2018)




                    July 2018
            Santa Clara County Multi-Jurisdictional Program for Public Information
              Annual Evaluation Report for FY18 Year 3 (July 2017 to June 2018)



I.   INTRODUCTION

     Ten cities and the Santa Clara Valley Water District (District) have been active participants in
     the National Flood Insurance Program’s (NFIP) Community Rating System (CRS) for almost
     20 years. CRS is a voluntary program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency
     (FEMA) NFIP that allows participating communities to earn flood insurance premium discounts
     for their residents and businesses by agreeing to adopt and enforce practices that meet or
     exceed FEMA’s requirement to reduce the risk of flooding. As the flood risk reduction agency
     for Santa Clara County, the District performs many flood related outreach and maintenance
     activities that earn CRS points for the County’s CRS-participating communities. CRS points
     reduce, in 5% increments, flood insurance premiums for participating communities. The total
     savings for Santa Clara County residents from CRS discounts last year was approximately
     $2.2 million.

     The CRS Coordinator’s Manual, 2013 edition, included the option to undertake a Program for
     Public Information (PPI) which is a method to customize flood risk reduction outreach
     messages and increase CRS points. The District hosted the development of a
     Multi-Jurisdictional PPI in 2013 and 2014 so that all Santa Clara County CRS participating
     communities could work together and benefit from this effort. This PPI was finalized in April
     2015. This report is the third Annual Evaluation Report (Report) to document our PPI
     activities.

     The number of CRS points that will be earned by the PPI are determined by FEMA’s
     consultant, Insurance Services Office (ISO/ CRS Specialists) examiners. We estimate that we
     could earn up to 340 points per participating community for our PPI efforts. The complete list
     of outreach projects is included as Attachment 1 of this Report. Attachment 1 lists all projects
     proposed in the 2015 PPI, with a “Project Accomplishments” column noting actions taken
     during the third year of the PPI, FY18.

     One important benefit from our PPI work has been developed through the close collaboration
     between city staff who work on flood protection throughout the County. Together, we have
     strengthened our CRS programs and learned from one another about shared flood protection
     and land use issues. For the Santa Clara County CRS Users Group, the PPI is our most
     important project. In addition to the PPI, the CRS Users Group also learned about new FEMA
     maps that are being updated to reflect coastal flooding in the San Francisco Bay. A sub-
     group of shoreline communities worked together on improved maps as part of this process.
     The CRS Users Group and the PPI effort provided a forum for the advancement of flood
     protection issues throughout the County. Twelve agencies initially participated in this Multi-
     Jurisdictional PPI; nine have approved it. We will continue to actively recruit more
     participation.




                                                2 of 9
II. PPI DEVELOPMENT PROCESS

  The District initiated the PPI process for Santa Clara County in November 2013. The District
  hosted the process and provided staffing, while each participating community was required to:
  (1) conduct the CRS Self-Assessment; (2) recruit a non-governmental external stakeholder;
  (3) participate in the PPI Committee meetings; and (4) bring the PPI to their elected body for
  approval. With the enthusiastic support of the CRS coordinators, the PPI process was
  started.

  A number of meetings were held in 2013 and 2014 to develop the PPI. A committee worked
  between the meetings to draft the PPI and compose the extensive list of possible projects
  (Attachment 1, which is Appendix A of the 2015 PPI). Table 1 shows dates of approval of the
  PPI by each participating agency as of July 20, 2018. Nine agencies have approved; San
  Jose, Cupertino, and the County of Santa Clara are still pending approval.

  Table 1. Dates of PPI Approval
                                                                    Scheduled
                                                                                 Not
              Agency                  Date of Approval        Yes    But Not
                                                                              Scheduled
                                                                    Approved
    Santa Clara Valley
                                           4/14/15            X
    District
    City of Cupertino                Not Yet Scheduled                               X
    City of Gilroy                        11/21/16            X
    City of Los Altos                      6/23/15            X
    City of Milpitas                       1/19/16            X
    City of Morgan Hill                    8/24/16            X
    City of Mountain View                 10/27/15            X
    City of Palo Alto                       6/8/15            X
    City of San Jose               Scheduled for Early 2018            X
    City of Santa Clara                    7/14/15            X
    Santa Clara County               Not Yet Scheduled                               X
    City of Sunnyvale                      6/23/15            X
             Total Approved                                   9
       Approval Scheduled                                               1
         Not Yet Scheduled                                                           2


III. PPI ACCOMPLISHMENT FOR 2018

  The PPI accomplishments for FY18 fall into three categories. The first was continuing to get
  the PPI approved by the governing bodies of the participating communities. The second was
  to continue to implement our accounting system to keep track of the PPI projects. The third
  was carrying out an extensive outreach program for flood risk reduction.

  Elected Body Approval: Including the District, nine of the 12 participating agencies had the
  PPI approved by their governing body by the end of FY18. The approval dates are shown by
  city/agency in Table 1. The City of San Jose has the approval scheduled for Spring 2019 and
  the City of Cupertino and the County are each still pending approval.



                                              3 of 9
Accounting System: Because the 2015 PPI included up to 12 agencies, tracking
implementation became quite cumbersome compared to a single agency PPI. The District
continues to host the record-keeping to ensure consistency throughout the County. An
electronic file-sharing system, Egnyte, was initially set-up with folders for each of the agencies
to file documents related to the 83 potential outreach projects identified in the PPI, including a
comprehensive spreadsheet showing which projects were accomplished in any given fiscal
year, by community/agency. This spreadsheet, along with the Annual Evaluation Report, will
be will submitted with annual CRS recertifications. PPI related projects carried out by the
District almost always apply to the entire county. Cities carried out projects in addition and
they are shown on the composite spreadsheet which includes input from each city.

At the May 22, 2018 CRS Users Group Meeting, the committee discussed the status of
implementing Egnyte. We discussed the benefits of using the system for not only tracking PPI
outreach projects, but also identified the benefits of restructuring the file system to track all
CRS related documentation, including the 2015 PPI projects. The benefits are:

   -   Information Share / Knowledge Transfer: Communities can view each other’s program
       documentation. When a community improves their CRS rating, another community
       can go access the documents submitted to determine how they carried out the CRS
       credited activity(ies) that helped improve their score.
   -   Document Repository- Central location for CRS related documentation, organized to
       mirror the CRS Coordinator’s Manual (by community/by activity/by element). This will
       helpful for both CRS annual recertifications and cycle visits/audits, as well as when a
       community experiences staff turnover.

Summary of PPI Projects Accomplished in FY18

Appendix A from 2015 PPI noting FY18 Project Accomplishments (Attachment No. 1) is
summarized as follows:

   •   Of the 49 Community at Large outreach projects (CAL OP) identified in the PPI, at
       least 48 were accomplished.
   •   For outreach projects in the Special Flood Hazard Area (SHFA OP), at least 20 of the
       22-potential projects were accomplished.
   •   Of the 9 Targeted Audience outreach projects (TA OP) identified, 7 were
       accomplished.

These numbers go well beyond the requirements of the CRS Program, and we anticipate
collecting the maximum number of points for our collective efforts in 2018.

Outreach Program

The District’s flood awareness campaign for the 2017-2018 winter season followed a year in
which the District’s flood risk reduction efforts were under increased scrutiny. The historical
flooding along Coyote Creek in February 2017 was a very painful and visual reminder of flood
threats in our county.

As a result, the District doubled-down on its commitment to reduce flood risks and increase
awareness among residents with a series of long-term and short-term measures on
Coyote Creek that included physical barriers, revised reservoir operations, community

                                            4 of 9
resource fairs and more (details available on: https://valleywaternews.org/2018/02/21/one-
year-after-the-flood/). Our community outreach efforts were supplemented by an educational
paid advertising campaign. This year, our advertising campaign was supplemented by a
series of formative research to truly understand our target audience, its level of awareness,
and explore what educational messages and images most appealed to the group.

The District’s annual flood awareness campaign has a budget of $290,000. The total budget
encompasses a paid advertisement campaign as well as staff outreach efforts related to flood
awareness. The polling services provided by Probolsky cost $23,000. The remaining
campaign funds were allocated for expenses related to community events such as the Coyote
Creek resource fairs and additional community events during the months of September
through March.

The paid flood awareness campaign ran over a five-month period, from December 2017
through April 2018. The total paid advertisement campaign budget was $180,000 and was
exhausted. The cost of the floodplain mailer due to an increase in size was almost $60,000.
Total campaign impressions were calculated at over 21.8 million; with a cost of $5.50 per
thousand impressions.

Community Events: District communications staff actively participated in emergency
preparedness fairs and community events in the fall of 2017. During that time staff attended
17 community events to distribute flood safety information including our starter emergency
kits.

In addition, the District Speaker’s Bureau Program includes general information on flood
protection, including CRS, the county’s ALERT system, flood insurance, and District’s ongoing
flood protection projects. During the 2018 Fiscal Year, 11 Speaker’s Bureau presentations
were given to diverse groups throughout the county. The District does not post the PowerPoint
Presentations on our website, nor is it posted on social media. However, if an organization
requests an electronic/hard copy, it is provided. Information on the District’s Speakers Bureau
Program is available on our website: https://www.valleywater.org/learning-center/lets-talk-
water-speakers-bureau.In addition to these community efforts, District board members
submitted guest columns to be placed in local newspapers. The District submitted four winter-
related or flood protection-related columns that contained flood safety messages as well as
PPI messages during the months of March, June, September (2017), and February (2018).

Advertising Campaign: The paid advertisements began in December 2017 and ran through
April 2018. In preparation for the campaign, as early as September 2017, Office of
Communications staff led social media and digital communication efforts to convey flood
safety messages including the use of Facebook, Twitter and blog posts, as well as the
District’s e-newsletter. A key strategy of the paid campaign was to incorporate key PPI
messages in our ads as much as possible. These messages were derived from the District’s
annual Flood Plain Mailer, a publication distributed to residents in FEMA designated
floodplains (Attachment 1 - Special Flood Hazard Area [SFHA] Outreach Projects [OP] 1 and
3). The flood awareness campaign included:

Customer Target: The campaign was targeted to residents and commuters within Santa
Clara County, and residents in areas in or near a Special Flood Hazard Area. These targeted
areas were determined using zip codes from the floodplain mailer address list, which is
based on published FEMA flood maps.

                                          5 of 9
Media: The media breakdown was as follows:

a) Radio – 45 percent
b) Online & Social Media– 23 percent
c) Print (including Ethnic publications) – 32 percent

Radio: (45 percent)

Scripts for radio were drafted to include key PPI messages such as making an emergency
plan and preparing for flooding by purchasing flood insurance. The radio buy included 892
spots of both 15 second weather alerts and 30 second campaign spots for a total of 17
weeks on the following mainstream English radio stations: KBAY and KEZR. Ads were
translated in Spanish (KBRG), Vietnamese (Cali Today and KVNN) and Chinese (KSQQ).
The campaign had two kinds of radio ads: general ads and weather alerts. The weather
alerts were scheduled days in advance of anticipated rain storms; weather alerts were
heavily used during the months of January and March. General radio ads were scheduled
throughout the campaign duration from January through April. Total impressions from radio
spots were 4,462,514.

Online & Social Media: (23 percent)

The online buy included English banner ads on Facebook and Google AdWords, as well as
Magellan Ads which featured all four languages. Facebook ads were targeted to specific
characteristics (such as homeowners and renters) and interests including emergency
preparedness and flood insurance and featured four versions of ads on topics (sandbags,
flood insurance, emergency preparedness, and the flood ready theme). The Google
AdWords buy placed ads through the Google Display Network, which allowed us to target to
websites, smart phone apps and blogs according to specified keywords, topics/themes,
websites and demographics that aligned with our target audience.

Ads placed through Magellan featured all four languages with the same banner ads as the
Facebook and AdWords, with similar targeting used in the Facebook buy. The online ads
launched in December 2017 and ran through March 2018, serving a total of 12,534,028
impressions and generating 37,234 clicks. The cost per result was $0.88 for Facebook. The
click through rate was 0.46% for Google AdWords, and Magellan 0.04%.

Print: (32 percent)

Print advertisements were placed as half page ads in the Mercury News and translated into
Spanish, Chinese and Vietnamese for publication as full-page ads in El Avisador, El
Observador, World Journal News (Chinese) and Cali Today (Vietnamese). Ads launched
during the week of December 17 and were scheduled to run through March 18. Total
impressions from print ads were 4,709,000.

Results:

Traffic to the flood protection resources page through the duration of campaign resulted in a
total of 53,432 page views to both the flood protection resources and flood safety tip pages.
During the campaign months, the flood protection resource page was the second most
viewed page on the district’s website. Prior to the 2017-2018 campaign launch, the flood
protection resources page was restructured to serve as a hub of flood safety information with
                                           6 of 9
   icons leading to a series of related web pages including information on flood zone maps,
   signing up for emergency alerts, sandbags, reporting local flooding and safety tips. Of these
   subpages, the most accessed was the emergency alerts resource page, which promoted the
   county’s newly launched ReadySCC app and the AlertSCC service. Pageviews to these
   resources increased by more than 17,000 clicks despite a reduced media buy. The last two
   campaign years had used the entire budget for a paid advertisement campaign. Coupled with
   staff community outreach efforts, the 2017-2018 campaign was a robust campaign with
   excellent results.

IV. SANTA CLARA COUNTY CRS USERS GROUP MEETINGS 2018 – MONITORING AND
    EVALUATING THE PPI

  CRS Users Group meetings were held on May 22, 2018 and July 9, 2018 to gather
  communities’ input on project accomplished in FY18. Agenda and attendance sheets for each
  meeting are included as Attachments 2-5. At the July 9th meeting, a draft PPI Annual
  Evaluation Report FY18 (Year 3) was handed out to the communities for their review and
  input.

  As required by CRS, our May and July meetings were to monitor the implementation of the
  2015 PPI outreach projects and to determine if the desired outcomes were achieved, as well
  as if any changes to the PPI were needed. The Users Group agreed that our 2015 PPI
  messaging and projects to support those messages would remain the same for the duration of
  the 2015 PPI, which sunsets in 2020.

  We discussed lessons learned from our third year and what was important to continue and
  strengthen. Attendance was excellent; staff from eleven agencies participated, as well as
  some external stakeholders and other interested parties.

  The general consensus is that our PPI implementation is on target and that no changes are
  needed. Cities who have had the PPI approved by their elected officials reported receiving
  strong support. For cities that had not gotten the PPI approved yet, the major problem was
  workload. The Public Works Departments in our area have a great deal of work to do now
  because of the high development level with the Silicon Valley’s current economic boom.

  The PPI Annual Evaluation Report needs to be shared with each participating community’s
  governing body. Table 2 is a chart of how each community expects to communicate the
  report.

  Table 2. How PPI Annual Evaluation Report will be shared with Community’s Governing Body
           Community                                   Method for Sharing
      1    Santa Clara Valley Water District           Board Non-Agenda Item
      2    City of Gilroy                              Consent Calendar
      3    City of Los Altos                           City Manager’s Weekly Update
      4    City of Milpitas                            Monthly Report to Council
      5    City of Mountain View                       Council Weekly Update
      6    City of Morgan Hill                         City Manager’s Weekly Update
      7    City of Palo Alto                           Informational Staff Report
      8    City of San Jose                            City Manager’s Weekly Report
      9    City of Santa Clara                         Friday Update to Council
     10    City of Sunnyvale                           City Manager’s Bi-Weekly Report

                                                  7 of 9
V. FUTURE MESSAGING

  The messages that we chose originally are still relevant to Santa Clara County. We continue
  to increase our efforts to get people to prepare their personal/family emergency plans and be
  flood-ready. This will be incorporated in the flood preparedness outreach that is done every
  fall. We will also coordinate efforts with the District’s Education Outreach Program to promote
  flood preparedness in local schools with an emphasis on reaching students and families that
  were affected by the February 2017 floods.

  Another recommendation of the PPI Committee is to increase the use of social media for
  messaging. People are using their phones more and more to get information, so the more we
  can use banner ads, sponsored articles, etc., the better. The PPI Committee was pleased to
  see all the outreach in different media that the District had done the year before. The meeting
  attendees shared that they had seen various messages throughout the season on different
  media.

  In support of our preparedness messaging, we will continue to promote the importance of
  having family emergency plans and emergency kits ready to go before an emergency event
  occurs. As we did last year, emergency starter mini-kits of emergency supplies have been
  developed as a give-away for emergency preparedness fairs or events. This year, to qualify
  for an emergency starter mini-kit, each person will have to demonstrate they’ve downloaded
  an emergency alert App onto their cell phones. We are promoting the County’s recently
  launched ReadySCC App, as well as the American Red Cross Flood App. For people who do
  not have cell phones, they will be asked to demonstrate that they’ve started to complete an
  American Red Cross Emergency Contact Card that will be provided to them.

 Additionally, Education Outreach (EO) presented flood awareness programming in classrooms
 throughout the county from October 2017 to March 2018. In addition to the classroom
 presentations, EO invited over 4,000 students in 176 classrooms, from 39 schools, to enter the
 District’s “Are You Flood Ready?” flood awareness coloring contest. The schools were located
 in 8 cities throughout the county; Campbell, Cupertino, Milpitas, San Jose, Morgan Hill, Santa
 Clara and Saratoga, these were schools that had requested visits from Education Outreach for
 the 2017-18 school year.

  The coloring contest closed in March 2018 and over 350 entries were received from 16
  different schools. Winning entries were selected to represent each of the District’s seven
  board members’ districts and prizes were awarded. The winning students received an
  emergency hand-crank radio, plus an emergency mini starter kit and a copy of “Chicken
  Little’s Flood Advice” (a book about a character that is always prepared for any emergency).
  Emergency mini starter kits, “Chicken Little’s Flood Advice” books and a copy of the Red
  Cross Emergency Contact Card were given to all students in the winning student’s classes.
  The teacher in the winning students’ classrooms received a back-pack full of emergency
  supplies to keep in the classroom.

  Targeted Outreach: Education Outreach reached out to schools from the flood zone of the
  February 2017 Coyote Creek Flood to ask if they were interested in the EO Program. One
  school requested a visit and EO presented in May 2018.




                                             8 of 9
VI. CONCLUSION

   Overall, the CRS Users Group was successful in implementing the PPI in FY18. The PPI
   allowed for participating communities to mutually decide which flood risk reduction messages
   are most appropriate and identifies how those messages are delivered. The objectives of
   participating in the PPI are to enhance the effectiveness of the flood risk messages to
   residents, reduce flood risks within the county, and earn valuable CRS credit points when
   identified projects are implemented by communities. The Users Group and the PPI will
   continue through FY19.

___________________________________________

Attachments for submission to District Board, City Councils/Managers, and FEMA as part of 2018
Verification/Recertification Package, as required:


1. Appendix A from 2015 SC County Multi-Jurisdictional PPI noting FY18 Project
   Accomplishments
2. May 22, 2018 Santa Clara County CRS Users Group Meeting Agenda
3. May 22, 2018 Santa Clara County CRS Users Group Meeting Sign-in Sheet
4. July 9, 2018 Santa Clara County CRS Users Group Meeting Agenda
5. July 9, 2018 Santa Clara County CRS Users Group Meeting Sign-in Sheet




                                             9 of 9
                                                Appendix A. The Santa Clara County 2015 Multi-Jurisdictional PPI Worksheet – Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 Annual Evaluation Report (Year 3) Project Accomplishments

                                                                                                                              2015 PPI Plan
                                                  1                                                                           2                                                                              3                      4                                                                            FY 2018
      Target                                          Message                              Outcome                            Project(s) Proposed to                                Assignment                   Proposed               Stakeholder              CRS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Project Accomplishments
    Audience                                                                                                                  Support the Messages                                                               Schedule                                     Community
Community At                   Topics 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, & 9                      Educate our             CAL OP #1. Flood messages inserted in and/or printed on          City Public Works Depts.    October – March      Utility companies           All                   City of Milpitas utility bill messaging during November – December 2017
                               Message: Know your flood risk and be prepared; buy      community on flood      Utility Bills.                                                   (PWD)                                            (water, electric, waste)                          billing period (not an insert).
Large (CAL)                    flood insurance                                         protection and                                                                           City CRS Coordinators
The PPI Committee                                                                      preparedness                                                                             District Communications                                                                            City of Palo Alto sent out two utility bill inserts to home owners.
recognized that the                                                                    measures                                                                                 (for South County
entire community that                                                                                                                                                           Unincorporated areas)                                                                              City of Sunnyvale included flood insert in January 2018 utility billing.
lives and/or works in
Santa Clara County is
subject to impacts due to
flooding. The CRS
typically focuses on
residential flooding, but
here, flooding of
businesses and roads is
also very important

                                                                                                               CAL OP #2. Post Utility Bill messages on websites (Element                                                                                                          City of Gilroy posts messages on website.
                                                                                                               352 WEB1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Palo Alto posted Utility bill inserts are on Flood Information/Winter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Preparedness on their website.

                                                                                                               CAL OP#3. Winter Preparedness Briefing                           District Field Operations   October              NOAA, Cities Emergency      All                   Not Applicable. Removed from list because all the people involved in the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Managers & Public                                 briefing are staff from numerous agencies. This wasn’t outreach to the
                                                                                                               CAL OP #4. Post “Winter Preparedness Briefing” notice and                                    October -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Works Directors, Santa                            public.
                                                                                                               materials on website (Element 352 WEB1)                                                      November
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Clara County OES, Cal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Fire, CCC, DWR
                                                                                                               CAL OP#5. “Emergency Preparedness Workshop”                      District Emergency          November
                                                                                                                                                                                Services
                                                                                                               CAL OP #6. Post “Emergency Preparedness Workshop”                                            November -
                                                                                                               notice and materials on website (Element 352 WEB1)                                           December
                               Topics 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, & 9                      Educate our             CAL OP #7. Develop newsletters with articles on flood            City CRS Coordinators or    October – March      Insurance agencies          City of Morgan Hill   Starting in September 2017, the District began including emergency
                               Message: Know your flood risk and be prepared; buy      community on flood      protection and preparedness measures that urge residents         Communications staff                             Gilroy Chamber of           City of Cupertino     preparedness and flood safety information and encouraging residents to
                               flood insurance.                                        protection and          and businesses to purchase flood insurance. These would          District Communications                          Commerce                    City of Sunnyvale     consider flood insurance in its monthly newsletter, Valley Water News,
                               Flood Insurance will cover damage from flooding that    preparedness            include paper and electronic versions. These will be more        Gilroy Chamber of                                District Grantee            Gilroy Chamber of     through February 2018. The newsletter reaches over 29,000 residents
                               most homeowner’s policies don’t cover                   measures                extensive than messages included in utility bills. District‘s    Commerce                                         Organizations               Commerce              county-wide and is shared on the web and district’s social media sites
                                                                                                               annual county-wide mailer (CWM) will include language on                                                                                                            monthly. A countywide mailer was sent in November 2017 and included
                                                                                                               flood protection and preparedness measures. City of                                                                                                                 information on where to get sandbags, downloading emergency apps, and
                                                                                                               Sunnyvale will distribute yearly newsletter article called                                                                                                          getting flood insurance.
                                                                                                               “Know how to be Flood Safe in Sunnyvale” (Element 352
                                                                                                               WEB1 and 2)                                                                                                                                                         Outreach materials displayed at Los Altos City Hall front counter and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Library. Ad article titled "Flood Insurance Information Available" was
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   published two times in the Los Altos Town Crier.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   In June 2018, City of Milpitas mailed out citywide informational “SFHA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   brochure” (to all residences and businesses) that included this message.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Morgan Hill's weekly newsletter/e-mail blast (called Weekly 411)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   sent out to subscribers during the months of September 2017, October
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2017, November 2017, January 2018, and Mach 2018 included information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   on emergency preparedness measures.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Palo Alto utility bill inserts include this message.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Santa Clara, citywide newsletter “Inside Santa Clara” includes these
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   messages and is sent to all addresses in City in fall each year.



  1    Message Topics: Outreach Projects (OP): Topic 1 – Know your flood hazard; Topic 2 – Insure your property for your flood hazard; Topic 3 – Protect people from the flood hazard; Topic 4 – Protect your property from the hazard; Topic 5 – Build responsibly; Topic 6 – Protect natural floodplain functions
                            Flood Response Preparations (FRP): Topic 7 – Develop a Family Emergency Plan; Topic 8 – Download disaster electronic Apps; Topic 9 – Understand shallow flooding risks – “Don’t drive through standing water” and “Turn Around, Don’t Drown   ®.”
  2    CAL OP = Community At Large Outreach Projects; SFHA OP = Special Flood Hazard Area Communities Outreach Projects; TA OP = Target Audiences Outreach Project
  3    Each September, all deliverables need to be reported to District for tracking purposes.
  4    A stakeholder can be any agency, organization, or person (other than the community itself) that supports the message. Stakeholders can be: an insurance company that publishes a brochures on flood insurance, even if it is set out at City Hall; a local newspaper that publishes a flood or hurricane season supplement each year; FEMA, if, for
       example, a FEMA brochure is used as an informational material; schools that implement outreach activities; a local newspaper; a neighborhood or civic association that sponsors and hosts a presentation by a community employee; a utility company that includes pertinent articles in its monthly bills; or presentations made by state or FEMA staff at a
       Risk Map meeting.
                                                                                                                                                                               1 of 27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ATTACHMENT NO. 1
                                                               Appendix A. The Multi-Jurisdictional PPI Worksheet for Santa Clara County - 2017 Annual Report Version (Year 2) Project Accomplishments


                                                                                                                             2015 PPI Plan
                                                1                                                                            2                                                                               3                      4                                                                            FY 2018
       Target                                       Message                               Outcome                            Project(s) Proposed to                                 Assignment                   Proposed               Stakeholder              CRS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Project Accomplishments
      Audience                                                                                                               Support the Messages                                                                Schedule                                     Community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Sunnyvale “Horizon” newsletter included these messages;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   newsletter sent to all addresses in the city.

                                                                                                              CAL OP #8. Post newsletters/articles/District’s CWM on                                                                                                               All were posted on city or District websites.
                                                                                                              websites (Element 352 WEB1 and 2)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Los Altos annual mailer and brochure are posted on the city website
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   and provide information regarding Flood Protection, Preparedness, Illegal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Dumping and purchase of flood insurance.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   In June 2018, City of Milpitas mailed out citywide informational “SFHA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   brochure” (to all residences and businesses) that included this message.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   “Know Your Flood Risk” article in citywide newsletter, May 2018 edition.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Morgan Hill's weekly newsletters/e-mail blasts sent out during the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   months of September 2017, October 2017, November 2017, January 2018,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   and March 2018 were all posted in the City’s website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   On City of Mountain View website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   District’s CWM and City of Palo Alto’s utility bill inserts are posted on City’s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Flood Information/Winter Preparedness webpage.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Santa Clara posts the newsletter to City website.

Community At                Topics 4 & 6                                             Cleaner streams and      CAL OP #9. “Do Not Dump” message is sent each year to all        District Communications      June/July 2015       Adopt-A-Creek               All                   District Floodplain Mailer (FPM) sent to all SC County parcels in the FEMA
                            Message: Keep debris and trash out of our streams.       fewer dumping            Santa Clara County residents in the District’s CWM               City of Sunnyvale            (CWM)                Organizations                                     flood zone with “Do Not Dump” message. District has an extensive
Large (CAL)                 It’s illegal to dump into streams                        violations                                                                                                                                  District Grantee                                  stewardship program. “Do Not Dump” message posted on
The PPI Committee                                                                                                                                                                                                                Organizations                                     construction/project sites with signs throughout the county.
recognized that the                                                                  Fewer debris
entire community that                                                                blockages during                                                                                                                                                                              City of Los Altos annual mailer and brochure provide information regarding
lives and/or works in                                                                high-flow events                                                                                                                                                                              Flood program with an emphasis on the “DO NOT DUMP” message. City of
Santa Clara County is                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Los Altos also communicates “DO NOT DUMP” message through litter
subject to impacts due to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          mailer sent to property owners in the City’s Trash Management Area 1,
flooding. The CRS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  which is characterized by higher trash levels.
typically focuses on
residential flooding, but                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          City of Milpitas citywide informational “SFHA brochure” included this
here, flooding of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  message.
businesses and roads is
also very important.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               City of Palo Alto utility bills inserts include “Do Not Dump” message.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   “Inside Santa Clara” newsletter includes this message and is sent to all
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   addresses in City.

                                                                                                              CAL OP #10. Post “Do Not Dump” messages on website                                                                                                                   FPM posted on the District’s website.
                                                                                                              (Element 352 WEB1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Gilroy has this message on its website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Los Altos annual mailer and brochure provide information regarding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   the flood program with an emphasis on the “DO NOT DUMP” message and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   are posted on the city website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Milpitas “SFHA brochure” posted on website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   On City of Mountain View website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   “Do Not Dump” messages are in the City of Palo Alto’s Flood
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Information/Winter Preparedness webpage.

       Message Topics: Outreach Projects (OP): Topic 1 – Know your flood hazard; Topic 2 – Insure your property for your flood hazard; Topic 3 – Protect people from the flood hazard; Topic 4 – Protect your property from the hazard; Topic 5 – Build responsibly; Topic 6 – Protect natural floodplain functions
                        Flood Response Preparations (FRP): Topic 7 – Develop a Family Emergency Plan; Topic 8 – Download disaster electronic Apps; Topic 9 – Understand shallow flooding risks – “Don’t drive through standing water.”
  2    CAL OP = Community At Large Outreach Projects; SFHA OP = Special Flood Hazard Area Communities Outreach Projects; TA OP = Target Audiences Outreach Project
  3    Each September, all deliverables need to be reported to District for tracking purposes.
  4
       A stakeholder can be any agency, organization, or person (other than the community itself) that supports the message. Stakeholders can be: an insurance company that publishes a brochures on flood insurance, even if it is set out at City Hall; a local newspaper that publishes a flood or hurricane season supplement each year; FEMA, if, for
       example, a FEMA brochure is used as an informational material; schools that implement outreach activities; a local newspaper; a neighborhood or civic association that sponsors and hosts a presentation by a community employee; a utility company that includes pertinent articles in its monthly bills; or presentations made by state or FEMA staff at a
       Risk Map meeting.
                                                                                                                                                                              2 of 27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ATTACHMENT NO. 1
                                                             Appendix A. The Multi-Jurisdictional PPI Worksheet for Santa Clara County - 2017 Annual Report Version (Year 2) Project Accomplishments


                                                                                                                           2015 PPI Plan
                                              1                                                                            2                                                                               3                      4                                                                           FY 2018
     Target                                       Message                               Outcome                            Project(s) Proposed to                                 Assignment                   Proposed               Stakeholder              CRS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Project Accomplishments
    Audience                                                                                                               Support the Messages                                                                Schedule                                     Community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Santa Clara posts the newsletter on City website. City website also
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 has additional information on keeping storm drains clear.

                                                                                                            CAL OP #11. “Illegal Dumping” - District Community Project       District CPRU                Year-Round           Adopt-A-Creek               All                   District Ordinance in force.
                                                                                                            Review Unit (CPRU) Water Resource Protection Ordinance           Santa Clara Valley Urban                          Organizations
                                                                                                            No. 08-2 amending Ordinance No. 83-2                             Runoff Pollution                                  District Grantee                                  City of Gilroy has this message on its website, City Code Chapter 12.
                                                                                                                                                                             Prevention Program                                Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Los Altos website posting of “Help Prevent Neighborhood
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Flooding…” provides information on illegal dumping reporting. City of Los
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Altos annual mailer and brochure provide information regarding the flood
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 program with an emphasis on the “DO NOT DUMP” message and are
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 posted on the city web site. The City of Los Altos Municipal Code Section
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6.32.030 Watercourse Protection prohibits “discharge into or connect any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 pipe or channel to a watercourse.”

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Milpitas citywide informational “SFHA brochure” included this
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 message.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Morgan Hill has illegal dumping information on City’s website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 “Illegal Dumping” is part of City of Palo Alto’s Municipal Code.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Santa Clara has several City codes/charter on illegal dumping.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Sunnyvale posts Illegal Dumping message on website.

                                                                                                            CAL OP #12. Post Water Resource Protection Ordinance on                                                                                                              District Water Resources Protection Ordinance posted on website
                                                                                                            website (Element 352 WEB1)                                                                                                                                           https://www.valleywater.org/sites/default/files/WRPO.pdf.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Gilroy has this message on its website, City Code Chapter 27A.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 The City of Los Altos Municipal Code Section 6.32.030 Watercourse
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Protection is accessible through the Municipal Code link on the City’s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Milpitas citywide informational “SFHA brochure” included this
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 message.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Morgan Hill has link to District’s “Permits for Working on District
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Land or Easement” on City’s website. The District’s webpage includes a link
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 to the Water Resources Protection Ordinance.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Link to City of Palo Alto’s Municipal Code on Floodplain Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 posted on Flood Information/Winter Preparedness webpage.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Santa Clara codes/charter is posted on City website.

                                                                                                            CAL OP #13. “No Dumping” signage on District project sites       District Watersheds          Year-Round           Santa Clara Valley          All                   District project sites throughout the county include “No Dumping”
                                                                                                                                                                             Operations & Maint.                               Urban Runoff Pollution                            signage/message.
                                                                                                                                                                             Santa Clara Valley Urban                          Prevention Program (all
                                                                                                                                                                             Runoff Pollution                                  communities that drain                            City of Milpitas has a citywide application of “No Dumping” medallions on all
                                                                                                                                                                             Prevention Program                                to San Francisco Bay)                             public property storm drains.

                                                                                                            CAL OP #14. “Pollution Hotline 1-888-510-5151” to report all     District Communications     Year-Round          Santa Clara Valley              All                 Information from Municipal Regional Permit NPDES Permit No.: CAS612008
                                                                                                            illegal dumping messages are included in Neighborhood                                                            Urban Runoff Pollution                              Order Number: R2-2015-0049
                                                                                                            Work Notices (target outreach – 6 points per topic)                                                              Prevention Program
     Message Topics: Outreach Projects (OP): Topic 1 – Know your flood hazard; Topic 2 – Insure your property for your flood hazard; Topic 3 – Protect people from the flood hazard; Topic 4 – Protect your property from the hazard; Topic 5 – Build responsibly; Topic 6 – Protect natural floodplain functions
                      Flood Response Preparations (FRP): Topic 7 – Develop a Family Emergency Plan; Topic 8 – Download disaster electronic Apps; Topic 9 – Understand shallow flooding risks – “Don’t drive through standing water.”
2    CAL OP = Community At Large Outreach Projects; SFHA OP = Special Flood Hazard Area Communities Outreach Projects; TA OP = Target Audiences Outreach Project
3    Each September, all deliverables need to be reported to District for tracking purposes.
4
     A stakeholder can be any agency, organization, or person (other than the community itself) that supports the message. Stakeholders can be: an insurance company that publishes a brochures on flood insurance, even if it is set out at City Hall; a local newspaper that publishes a flood or hurricane season supplement each year; FEMA, if, for
     example, a FEMA brochure is used as an informational material; schools that implement outreach activities; a local newspaper; a neighborhood or civic association that sponsors and hosts a presentation by a community employee; a utility company that includes pertinent articles in its monthly bills; or presentations made by state or FEMA staff at a
     Risk Map meeting.
                                                                                                                                                                            3 of 27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ATTACHMENT NO. 1
                                                               Appendix A. The Multi-Jurisdictional PPI Worksheet for Santa Clara County - 2017 Annual Report Version (Year 2) Project Accomplishments


                                                                                                                             2015 PPI Plan
                                                1                                                                            2                                                                               3                      4                                                                             FY 2018
       Target                                       Message                               Outcome                            Project(s) Proposed to                                 Assignment                   Proposed               Stakeholder              CRS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Project Accomplishments
      Audience                                                                                                               Support the Messages                                                                Schedule                                     Community
                                                                                                                                                                               Santa Clara Valley Urban                          Watershed Watch                                   FY 2016-2017 Annual Report
                                                                                                                                                                               Runoff Pollution                                  Organization
                                                                                                                                                                               Prevention Program                                San Francisco Estuarine                           NOTE: FY 17-18 Annual Report will not be available until September 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Institute
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Oakland Museum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   C.5 – Illicit Discharge Detection and Elimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   C.7.c. Stormwater Pollution Prevention Education and

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   The         District’s   Pollution       Hotline       (1-888-510-5151;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   www.valleywater.org/Services/PollutionHotline.aspx)      receives and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   responds to emergency response reports throughout the Santa Clara County
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   24/7- 365 days per year availability to conduct storm water pollution
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   investigations.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   The District received and responded to a total of 141 emergency response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   reports throughout Santa Clara County during FY 16-17. This were 24 reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   more than in FY16. Of the 141 total incidents reported during FY17, 77 were
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   actual or potential discharge events, and 88 required a field response by a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   team member or members for general investigation, source identification,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   multi-agency coordination, and clean-up or evidence collection.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Milpitas maintains Pollution Prevention and SFHA phone lines. In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   addition, city mailed out citywide informational “SFHA brochure” that
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   included this message. Their number is 911 dispatch for Fire Department
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   response.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Pollution hot line is posted on the City of Palo Alto’s utility bills.

Community At                Topics 4 & 6                                             Cleaner streams and      CAL OP #15. Post Project notices with “Pollution Hotline” on                                                                                                         Not applicable, project notices did not include the Pollution Hotline
                            Message: Keep debris and trash out of our streams.       fewer dumping            website (Element 352 WEB1)                                                                                                                                           number this fiscal year.
Large (CAL)                 It’s illegal to dump into streams                        violations
The PPI Committee                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  The Do Not Dump messaging is in the District’s FPM and is posted on the
recognized that the                                                                  Fewer debris                                                                                                                                                                                  website at
entire community that                                                                blockages during                                                                                                                                                                              http://apps2.valleywater.org/publication/flipbook/808_FloodMailer2017/
lives and/or works in                                                                high-flow events                                                                                                                                                                              mobile/index.html#p=1
Santa Clara County is
subject to impacts due to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          City of Milpitas citywide informational “SFHA brochure” included this
flooding. The CRS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  message.
typically focuses on
residential flooding, but                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          “Pollution Hot Line” is posted on City of Palo Alto’s Flood
here, flooding of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Information/Winter Preparedness webpage.
businesses and roads is
also very important.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Pollution hotline is posted on City of Santa Clara’s website, and included in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   “Inside Santa Clara.”

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Sunnyvale posts link to Watershed Watch: Protect Creeks and Bay.

                                                                                                              CAL OP #16. Creekside Property Program – Creek Wise              District Communications      Year-Round           Fair Sponsors               All                   The Creek Wise brochures were handed out at various community events
                                                                                                              brochure handed out at community fairs (target outreach –                                                          Attendees of                                      at various SC County cities (not including Morgan Hill and Gilroy) in North
                                                                                                              6 points per topic)                                                                                                community events who                              County.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 visit information booths
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SCVURPPP                                          City of Palo Alto’s utility insert brochure includes creek monitoring
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   information.




       Message Topics: Outreach Projects (OP): Topic 1 – Know your flood hazard; Topic 2 – Insure your property for your flood hazard; Topic 3 – Protect people from the flood hazard; Topic 4 – Protect your property from the hazard; Topic 5 – Build responsibly; Topic 6 – Protect natural floodplain functions
                        Flood Response Preparations (FRP): Topic 7 – Develop a Family Emergency Plan; Topic 8 – Download disaster electronic Apps; Topic 9 – Understand shallow flooding risks – “Don’t drive through standing water.”
  2    CAL OP = Community At Large Outreach Projects; SFHA OP = Special Flood Hazard Area Communities Outreach Projects; TA OP = Target Audiences Outreach Project
  3    Each September, all deliverables need to be reported to District for tracking purposes.
  4
       A stakeholder can be any agency, organization, or person (other than the community itself) that supports the message. Stakeholders can be: an insurance company that publishes a brochures on flood insurance, even if it is set out at City Hall; a local newspaper that publishes a flood or hurricane season supplement each year; FEMA, if, for
       example, a FEMA brochure is used as an informational material; schools that implement outreach activities; a local newspaper; a neighborhood or civic association that sponsors and hosts a presentation by a community employee; a utility company that includes pertinent articles in its monthly bills; or presentations made by state or FEMA staff at a
       Risk Map meeting.
                                                                                                                                                                              4 of 27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ATTACHMENT NO. 1
                                                             Appendix A. The Multi-Jurisdictional PPI Worksheet for Santa Clara County - 2017 Annual Report Version (Year 2) Project Accomplishments


                                                                                                                           2015 PPI Plan
                                              1                                                                            2                                                                               3                      4                                                                           FY 2018
     Target                                       Message                               Outcome                            Project(s) Proposed to                                 Assignment                   Proposed               Stakeholder              CRS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Project Accomplishments
    Audience                                                                                                               Support the Messages                                                                Schedule                                     Community
                                                                                                            CAL OP #17. Post Creekside Property Program – Creek Wise                                                                                                             Creek Wise brochure, , “You Are the Solution to Water Pollution” was
                                                                                                            brochure on website (Element 352 WEB1)                                                                                                                               mailed out to approximately 16,100 creek-side property owners in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 July 2018. Information on the District’s Creekside Program is posted on the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 District’s website at:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 https://www.valleywater.org/learning-center/healthy-creeks-and-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ecosystems/creekside-property-program

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Los Altos general informational posting of “Local Creeks” provides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 information and direct readers to SCVWD website and Creekside Property
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Program.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Utility insert which include creek monitoring information is City of Palo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Alto’s Flood Information/Winter Preparedness.

                                                                                                            CAL OP#18. Organize volunteers for creek clean-ups through       District Communications      Year-Round           Community                   All                   Participation in the Adopt-A-Creek Program was 142 partners/adopted
                                                                                                            District’s Adopt-A-Creek Program or organized city clean-ups,                                                      Organizations               City of Santa Clara   sites in FY18 (an increase of 7sites from the previous year). Each
                                                                                                            such as City of Santa Clara’s, Adopt-A-Spot Program                                                                Residents                                         participating Adopt-A-Creek partner was required to host a minimum of 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Schools                                           clean-up events per year. Adopt-A-Creek program is also promoted in our
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Businesses                                        Cree Wise brochure, “You Are the Solution to Water Pollution,” which was
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Creek Connections                                 mailed out to all creek-side property owners in July 2018.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Action Group (CCAG)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 https://www.valleywater.org/learning-center/adopt-a-creek/current-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 partners

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Los Altos posted National River Cleanup Day information in the City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Manager Weekly updates, which is an email newsletter, and posted on the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Milpitas distributed a doorhanger to all residential households,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 organized cleanups at 4 sites and advertised in local paper, City website,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 KMLP-15 and social media for both Coastal Cleanup Day on 9/16/17 and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 National River Cleanup Day on 5/19/18 and 5/18/17.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Morgan Hill advertised the National River Cleanup Day – Morgan Hill
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Creek Cleanup (scheduled May 19, 2018) and California Coastal Cleanup
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Day (scheduled September 16, 2018) in the City’s Recreation Activity Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 and City’s weekly newsletters/e-mail blasts.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Palo Alto participates in District’s Adopt-A-Creek Program.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Santa Clara has an Adopt-a-Spot program.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Sunnyvale advertised the clean-ups.

                                                                                                            CAL OP #19. Post District’s Adopt a Creek Program and cities                                                                                                         Adopt-A-Creek Program information posted on the District’s website at
                                                                                                            clean-up programs on website (Element 352 WEB1)                                                                                                                      http://valleywater.org/EkContent.aspx?id=336&terms=adopt+a+creek.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Creek Wise brochure, “You Are the Solution to Water Pollution,” which
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 included Adopt-A-Creek program information was mailed out countywide to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 all creek-side property owners in July 2018.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Los Altos posted National River Cleanup Day information in the City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Manager Weekly updates, which is an email newsletter, and posted on the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Palo Alto posts District’s Adopt a Creek Program on City’s website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Santa Clara Adopt-a-Spot Program is posted on City website.
     Message Topics: Outreach Projects (OP): Topic 1 – Know your flood hazard; Topic 2 – Insure your property for your flood hazard; Topic 3 – Protect people from the flood hazard; Topic 4 – Protect your property from the hazard; Topic 5 – Build responsibly; Topic 6 – Protect natural floodplain functions
                      Flood Response Preparations (FRP): Topic 7 – Develop a Family Emergency Plan; Topic 8 – Download disaster electronic Apps; Topic 9 – Understand shallow flooding risks – “Don’t drive through standing water.”
2    CAL OP = Community At Large Outreach Projects; SFHA OP = Special Flood Hazard Area Communities Outreach Projects; TA OP = Target Audiences Outreach Project
3    Each September, all deliverables need to be reported to District for tracking purposes.
4
     A stakeholder can be any agency, organization, or person (other than the community itself) that supports the message. Stakeholders can be: an insurance company that publishes a brochures on flood insurance, even if it is set out at City Hall; a local newspaper that publishes a flood or hurricane season supplement each year; FEMA, if, for
     example, a FEMA brochure is used as an informational material; schools that implement outreach activities; a local newspaper; a neighborhood or civic association that sponsors and hosts a presentation by a community employee; a utility company that includes pertinent articles in its monthly bills; or presentations made by state or FEMA staff at a
     Risk Map meeting.
                                                                                                                                                                            5 of 27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ATTACHMENT NO. 1
                                                               Appendix A. The Multi-Jurisdictional PPI Worksheet for Santa Clara County - 2017 Annual Report Version (Year 2) Project Accomplishments


                                                                                                                             2015 PPI Plan
                                                1                                                                            2                                                                               3                      4                                                                           FY 2018
       Target                                       Message                               Outcome                            Project(s) Proposed to                                 Assignment                   Proposed               Stakeholder              CRS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Project Accomplishments
      Audience                                                                                                               Support the Messages                                                                Schedule                                     Community

Community At                Topics 4 & 6                                             Cleaner streams and      CAL OP#20. Organize volunteers for National River Cleanup        District Communications      May 16, 2015                                     All                   Information from Clean A Creek.org Creek Connections Action Group
                            Message: Keep debris and trash out of our streams.       fewer dumping            Day and California Coastal Cleanup Day                           City of San Jose             and September                                                          http://www.cleanacreek.org/Pasteventsresults_main%20page.asp
Large (CAL)                 It’s illegal to dump into streams                        violations                                                                                                             2015 annually
The PPI Committee                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  National River Cleanup Day was held on May 19, 2018. 48 clean-up sites;
recognized that the                                                                  Fewer debris                                                                                                                                                                                  1,354 volunteers removed approximately 47,353 lbs. of trash, including
entire community that                                                                blockages during                                                                                                                                                                              2,084 lbs. of recyclables along 65.24 miles of creeks and shoreline.
lives and/or works in                                                                high-flow events
Santa Clara County is                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              California Coastal Cleanup Day was held on September 16, 2017.
subject to impacts due to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          49 clean-up sites; 2,028 volunteers removed approximately 51,502 lbs. of
flooding. The CRS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  trash, including 6,957 lbs. of recyclables along 71.32 miles of creeks and
typically focuses on                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               shoreline.
residential flooding, but
here, flooding of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  City of Los Altos posted National River Cleanup Day information in the City
businesses and roads is                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Manager Weekly updates, which is an email newsletter, and posted on the
also very important.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               City website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Milpitas promoted and participated in these annual events.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Morgan Hill participated in these annual events.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Mountain View advertised Bi-Annual Creek Cleanups.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Palo Alto participates on National River Cleanup Program.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Santa Clara organized volunteers for National River Cleanup.

                                                                                                              CAL OP #21. Post volunteer information and results on                                                                                                                Volunteer information and results posted on www.cleanacreek.org.
                                                                                                              website (Element 352 WEB1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Los Altos posted National River Cleanup Day information in the City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Manager Weekly updates, which is an email newsletter, and posted on the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Milpitas promoted volunteer opportunities on promotions and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   website re-directing to www.cleanacreek.org

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Palo Alto posts National River Cleanup Program on City’s website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   National River Cleanup event is posted on City of Santa Clara’s website.

                                                                                                              CAL OP # 22. Installation of trash booms                                                                                                                             Information from Municipal Regional Permit NPDES Permit No.: CAS612008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Order Number: R2-2015-0049
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FY 2016-2017 Annual Report

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NOTE: FY 17-18 Annual Report will not be available until September 2018

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   C.10 – Provision C.10 Trash Load Reduction

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A total of 4 trash booms (2 in San Jose: Lower Silver Creek, Thompson
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Creek; 2 in Palo Alto: Matadero Creek, Adobe Creek) installed prior to FY16-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   17. 15 cubic yards of trash and debris removed from trash boom s clean-up
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   efforts in North County.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   There are trash capture devices throughout the City of Mountain View.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   In the City of Palo Alto, trash booms are installed at Matadero Creek and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Adobe Creek.
       Message Topics: Outreach Projects (OP): Topic 1 – Know your flood hazard; Topic 2 – Insure your property for your flood hazard; Topic 3 – Protect people from the flood hazard; Topic 4 – Protect your property from the hazard; Topic 5 – Build responsibly; Topic 6 – Protect natural floodplain functions
                        Flood Response Preparations (FRP): Topic 7 – Develop a Family Emergency Plan; Topic 8 – Download disaster electronic Apps; Topic 9 – Understand shallow flooding risks – “Don’t drive through standing water.”
  2    CAL OP = Community At Large Outreach Projects; SFHA OP = Special Flood Hazard Area Communities Outreach Projects; TA OP = Target Audiences Outreach Project
  3    Each September, all deliverables need to be reported to District for tracking purposes.
  4
       A stakeholder can be any agency, organization, or person (other than the community itself) that supports the message. Stakeholders can be: an insurance company that publishes a brochures on flood insurance, even if it is set out at City Hall; a local newspaper that publishes a flood or hurricane season supplement each year; FEMA, if, for
       example, a FEMA brochure is used as an informational material; schools that implement outreach activities; a local newspaper; a neighborhood or civic association that sponsors and hosts a presentation by a community employee; a utility company that includes pertinent articles in its monthly bills; or presentations made by state or FEMA staff at a
       Risk Map meeting.
                                                                                                                                                                              6 of 27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ATTACHMENT NO. 1
                                                             Appendix A. The Multi-Jurisdictional PPI Worksheet for Santa Clara County - 2017 Annual Report Version (Year 2) Project Accomplishments


                                                                                                                           2015 PPI Plan
                                              1                                                                            2                                                                               3                      4                                                                            FY 2018
     Target                                       Message                               Outcome                            Project(s) Proposed to                                 Assignment                   Proposed               Stakeholder              CRS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Project Accomplishments
    Audience                                                                                                               Support the Messages                                                                Schedule                                     Community




                                                                                                            CAL OP #23. Stenciling storm drains “Do Not Dump - Flows         City of San Jose                                                              City of San Jose      District inspects and maintains, including stenciled storm drains on all
                                                                                                            Into Bay”                                                        CRS Coordinator                                                               All Cities            District property.
                                                                                                                                                                             All Cities CRS Coordinator
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Information from Municipal Regional Permit NPDES Permit No.: CAS612008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Order Number: R2-2015-0049
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FY 2016-2017 Annual Report

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NOTE: FY 17-18 Annual Report will not be available until September 2018

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Provision C.7.a (Public Information and Outreach – Storm Drain Inlet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Marking) of the Municipal Regional Stormwater NPDES Permit (Order No.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R2-2015-0049) issued by the San Francisco Bay Regional Water Quality
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Control Board to 76 Bay Area permittees (including Santa Clara County, the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 District, and the cities in the northern part of the county that discharges to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 the Bay) requires that:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Permittees shall mark and maintain municipally-maintained storm drain
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 inlets with appropriate stormwater pollution prevention message, such as
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 “No Dumping, drains to Bay” or equivalent. For newly -approved, privately
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 maintained streets, Permittees shall require storm drain inlet markings by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 the project developer.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Municipalities are to inspect and maintain storm drain inlet markings of at
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 least 80 percent of municipality-maintained inlets to ensure they are legibly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 labeled.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Gilroy adds medallions at drainage inlet locations.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Los Altos storm drains are all stenciled (including the name of the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 creek that the inlet drains to) and the City aims to inspect, clean, and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 maintain each inlet annually.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Milpitas places “No Dumping, Drains to Creek” medallions placed at
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 public catch basins on as-needed basis.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 “Do Not Dump” stenciling is installed on all storm drain inlets in the City of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Palo Alto.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Santa Clara placed stencil on all storm drain inlets.




     Message Topics: Outreach Projects (OP): Topic 1 – Know your flood hazard; Topic 2 – Insure your property for your flood hazard; Topic 3 – Protect people from the flood hazard; Topic 4 – Protect your property from the hazard; Topic 5 – Build responsibly; Topic 6 – Protect natural floodplain functions
                      Flood Response Preparations (FRP): Topic 7 – Develop a Family Emergency Plan; Topic 8 – Download disaster electronic Apps; Topic 9 – Understand shallow flooding risks – “Don’t drive through standing water.”
2    CAL OP = Community At Large Outreach Projects; SFHA OP = Special Flood Hazard Area Communities Outreach Projects; TA OP = Target Audiences Outreach Project
3    Each September, all deliverables need to be reported to District for tracking purposes.
4
     A stakeholder can be any agency, organization, or person (other than the community itself) that supports the message. Stakeholders can be: an insurance company that publishes a brochures on flood insurance, even if it is set out at City Hall; a local newspaper that publishes a flood or hurricane season supplement each year; FEMA, if, for
     example, a FEMA brochure is used as an informational material; schools that implement outreach activities; a local newspaper; a neighborhood or civic association that sponsors and hosts a presentation by a community employee; a utility company that includes pertinent articles in its monthly bills; or presentations made by state or FEMA staff at a
     Risk Map meeting.
                                                                                                                                                                            7 of 27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ATTACHMENT NO. 1
                                                               Appendix A. The Multi-Jurisdictional PPI Worksheet for Santa Clara County - 2017 Annual Report Version (Year 2) Project Accomplishments


                                                                                                                             2015 PPI Plan
                                                1                                                                            2                                                                               3                      4                                                                            FY 2018
      Target                                        Message                               Outcome                            Project(s) Proposed to                                 Assignment                   Proposed               Stakeholder              CRS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Project Accomplishments
    Audience                                                                                                                 Support the Messages                                                                Schedule                                     Community
Community At                                                                         Cleaner streams and      CAL OP #24. Inserts into inlets                                                                                                                                      Information from Municipal Regional Permit NPDES Permit No.: CAS612008
                                                                                     fewer dumping                                                                                                                                                                                 Order Number: R2-2015-0049
Large (CAL)                                                                          violations                                                                                                                                                                                    FY 2016-2017 Annual Report
The PPI Committee
recognized that the                                                                  Fewer debris                                                                                                                                                                                  NOTE: FY 17-18 Annual Report will not be available until September 2018
entire community that                                                                blockages during
lives and/or works in                                                                high-flow events                                                                                                                                                                              Section 2 - Provision C.2 Reporting Municipal Operations
Santa Clara County is                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Program
subject to impacts due to
flooding. The CRS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  District inspects and maintains drop inlet protection on all its property.
typically focuses on
residential flooding, but                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          City of Los Altos has one installed large trash capture device that is
here, flooding of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  regularly maintained by the City’s maintenance division.
businesses and roads is
also very important.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               City of Milpitas completed installation of 94 small full trash capture
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   devices.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Required on all new development projects for City of Mountain View.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Palo Alto installed two large trash capture devices.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   In the City of Santa Clara, the total count for installed storm drain inlet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   inserts for FY 17/18 was 472.

                                                                                                              CAL OP #25. Hot Spot Assessment and Clean-ups                                                                                                                        Information from Municipal Regional Permit NPDES Permit No.: CAS612008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Order Number: R2-2015-0049
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FY 2016-2017 Annual Report

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NOTE: FY 17-18 Annual Report will not be available until September 2018

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   C.10 – Provision C.10 Trash Load Reduction

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   District staff continued to actively participate in the SCVURPPP Trash Ad-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Hoc Task Group. In addition, District staff co-chairs the BASMAA trash
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   committee and participated on the Project Management Team for the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Receiving Water Trash Monitoring Plan development. District staff also
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   participated in workshops related to receiving water trash monitoring for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   the statewide trash amendments organized by the Ocean Protection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Council.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   During the spring trash hot spot site assessments, it was determined that
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   the significant stream flows over the winter in Santa Clara County washed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   out all sign of the trash from the hot spot locations.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A total of 3 cubic yards of trash and debris removed.




       Message Topics: Outreach Projects (OP): Topic 1 – Know your flood hazard; Topic 2 – Insure your property for your flood hazard; Topic 3 – Protect people from the flood hazard; Topic 4 – Protect your property from the hazard; Topic 5 – Build responsibly; Topic 6 – Protect natural floodplain functions
                        Flood Response Preparations (FRP): Topic 7 – Develop a Family Emergency Plan; Topic 8 – Download disaster electronic Apps; Topic 9 – Understand shallow flooding risks – “Don’t drive through standing water.”
  2    CAL OP = Community At Large Outreach Projects; SFHA OP = Special Flood Hazard Area Communities Outreach Projects; TA OP = Target Audiences Outreach Project
  3    Each September, all deliverables need to be reported to District for tracking purposes.
  4
       A stakeholder can be any agency, organization, or person (other than the community itself) that supports the message. Stakeholders can be: an insurance company that publishes a brochures on flood insurance, even if it is set out at City Hall; a local newspaper that publishes a flood or hurricane season supplement each year; FEMA, if, for
       example, a FEMA brochure is used as an informational material; schools that implement outreach activities; a local newspaper; a neighborhood or civic association that sponsors and hosts a presentation by a community employee; a utility company that includes pertinent articles in its monthly bills; or presentations made by state or FEMA staff at a
       Risk Map meeting.
                                                                                                                                                                              8 of 27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ATTACHMENT NO. 1
                                                               Appendix A. The Multi-Jurisdictional PPI Worksheet for Santa Clara County - 2017 Annual Report Version (Year 2) Project Accomplishments


                                                                                                                             2015 PPI Plan
                                                1                                                                            2                                                                               3                      4                                                                            FY 2018
       Target                                       Message                               Outcome                            Project(s) Proposed to                                 Assignment                   Proposed               Stakeholder              CRS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Project Accomplishments
      Audience                                                                                                               Support the Messages                                                                Schedule                                     Community




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Gilroy completed hotspot assessment per City’s State Permit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   requirement for year 5 of permit.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Los Altos continues active participation in SCVURPPPP and continues
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   conducting Hot Spot cleanups.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Milpitas has 4 (four) creek hot spots which are cleaned twice/year.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Palo Alto identifies hot spots every year and keeps log of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   maintaining them.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Palo Alto and City of Milpitas continue to actively participate in the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SCVURPPP.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   In FY17/18, City of Santa Clara’s Trash Hot Spot Cleanups occurred in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   August and September 2017. There are 5 locations and 9.5 cubic feet of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   trash or .3518 cubic yards of trash was collected.

Community At                                                                         Cleaner streams and      CAL OP #26. Send out yearly newsletter article discussing        City of Sunnyvale CRS        Late Summer/                                     Sunnyvale             Messages on storm drainage system included in the annual FPM sent out
                                                                                     fewer dumping            efforts to ready the storm drainage system for fall rains –      Coordinator                  Fall                                             All                   to 53,243 properties.
Large (CAL)                                                                          violations               cleaning out storm drains, and discusses “No Dumping” that       Cities CRS Coordinators
The PPI Committee                                                                                             reaches all households in the City or County                                                                                                                         City of Milpitas has monthly street sweeping print advertising in local
recognized that the                                                                  Fewer debris                                                                                                                                                                                  newspaper; letters to 9,000 households in Fall Street Sweeping Program
entire community that                                                                blockages during                                                                                                                                                                              areas.
lives and/or works in                                                                high-flow events
Santa Clara County is                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              City of Palo Alto sends winter storm preparedness on utility insert every
subject to impacts due to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          year.
flooding. The CRS
typically focuses on                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               City of Santa Clara’s “Inside Santa Clara” newsletter is posted on City
residential flooding, but                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          website.
here, flooding of
businesses and roads is
also very important.




       Message Topics: Outreach Projects (OP): Topic 1 – Know your flood hazard; Topic 2 – Insure your property for your flood hazard; Topic 3 – Protect people from the flood hazard; Topic 4 – Protect your property from the hazard; Topic 5 – Build responsibly; Topic 6 – Protect natural floodplain functions
                        Flood Response Preparations (FRP): Topic 7 – Develop a Family Emergency Plan; Topic 8 – Download disaster electronic Apps; Topic 9 – Understand shallow flooding risks – “Don’t drive through standing water.”
  2    CAL OP = Community At Large Outreach Projects; SFHA OP = Special Flood Hazard Area Communities Outreach Projects; TA OP = Target Audiences Outreach Project
  3    Each September, all deliverables need to be reported to District for tracking purposes.
  4
       A stakeholder can be any agency, organization, or person (other than the community itself) that supports the message. Stakeholders can be: an insurance company that publishes a brochures on flood insurance, even if it is set out at City Hall; a local newspaper that publishes a flood or hurricane season supplement each year; FEMA, if, for
       example, a FEMA brochure is used as an informational material; schools that implement outreach activities; a local newspaper; a neighborhood or civic association that sponsors and hosts a presentation by a community employee; a utility company that includes pertinent articles in its monthly bills; or presentations made by state or FEMA staff at a
       Risk Map meeting.
                                                                                                                                                                              9 of 27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ATTACHMENT NO. 1
                                                             Appendix A. The Multi-Jurisdictional PPI Worksheet for Santa Clara County - 2017 Annual Report Version (Year 2) Project Accomplishments


                                                                                                                           2015 PPI Plan
                                              1                                                                            2                                                                               3                      4                                                                            FY 2018
     Target                                       Message                               Outcome                            Project(s) Proposed to                                 Assignment                   Proposed               Stakeholder              CRS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Project Accomplishments
    Audience                                                                                                               Support the Messages                                                                Schedule                                     Community
                                                                                                            CAL OP # 27. Post newsletter article on efforts to ready         City Sunnyvale CRS           Late Summer/                                     Sunnyvale             Newsletters and flier posted on the website.
                                                                                                            storm drainage system for fall rains – cleaning out storm        Coordinator                  Fall                                             All
                                                                                                            drains, and “No Dumping” on website (Element 352 WEB1)           Cities CRS Coordinators                                                                             City of Los Altos website posting of “Storm Preparation in Los Altos”
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 discusses efforts to get the drainage system ready for the storm season.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Los Altos posts information on the website about City efforts to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 prepare for storms and emergencies, including 1) conducting emergency
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 operation drills with the Police Department and Santa Clara County Fire
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Department to set up an Emergency Operation Center in order to practice
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 and prepare for storm and flood response; 2) inspections and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 waterproofing of traffic signals related equipment and preparing backup
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 generators for signal outages; 3) trimming trees and removes dead trees,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 which can help to prevent debris blockages during rains; 4) inspecting and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 clearing debris from difficult to access storm water ditches..

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Milpitas posts their citywide informational “SFHA brochure” on City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Winter storm preparedness is posted on City of Palo Alto’s Flood
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Information/Winter Preparedness webpage.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Palo Alto utility bill inserts posted on their website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Santa Clara’s “Inside Santa Clara” newsletter is posted on City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Sunnyvale posts Learn How to Prevent Stormwater Pollution on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 website.

                          Topics 1,2,3,4,7, 8 & 9: Download disaster electronic    Increase in ‘hits’ on    CAL OP #28. Advertise District, County Public Health             City representatives,        Year-Round           Community                   All                   Apps included in the District’s FPM. Also advertised on the newsletter,
                          Apps                                                     Apps and less stress     Department and American Red Cross Electronic Apps                District Communications                           Organizations, including                          Countywide mailer, Facebook and Twitter by District, City of Palo Alto, and
                          Messages: Be prepared for flood and other disasters;     during emergencies                                                                        County Public Health                              American Red Cross and                            City of Mountain View.
                          Know how to access needed information quickly                                                                                                      Dept.                                             Gilroy Chamber of
                          during an emergency                                                                                                                                Gilroy Chamber of                                 Commerce                                          City of Milpitas Fire Department’s Office of Emergency Services offers
                                                                                                                                                                             Commerce, and                                     Residents who                                     instructions on downloading preparedness apps.
                                                                                                                                                                             American Red Cross                                download the apps.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Attendees of                                      City of Mountain View handed out Emergency Preparedness at Spanish
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               community events who                              Language Civic Leadership Class, also at one Council Neighborhood
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               visit information booths                          Committee Meeting and one Thursday Night Live event.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Teachers /students
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               visited by District’s                             Information on Red Cross Apps and Alert SCC is on City of Palo Alto’s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               School Outreach                                   Winter Storm Preparedness Tips utility insert.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Santa Clara’s “Inside Santa Clara” has instruction to download Red
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Cross App.

                                                                                                            CAL OP #29. Post disaster apps information on website                                                                                                                Apps posted on District website at https://www.valleywater.org/flooding-
                                                                                                            (Element 352 WEB1 and 2)                                                                                                                                             safety/flood-protection-resources/sign-up-for-emergency-alerts

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Los Altos website posting of “Calling on Los Altans to be Disaster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Prepared” provides links to AlertSCC.org, Red Cross and FEMA apps, and it
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 encourages the viewers to explore www.ready.gov for more information.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Los Altos posts AlertSCC app information on the City Website and in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 the City Manager Weekly Update online newsletter.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Apps posted on City of Milpitas Fire Department webpage.



     Message Topics: Outreach Projects (OP): Topic 1 – Know your flood hazard; Topic 2 – Insure your property for your flood hazard; Topic 3 – Protect people from the flood hazard; Topic 4 – Protect your property from the hazard; Topic 5 – Build responsibly; Topic 6 – Protect natural floodplain functions
                      Flood Response Preparations (FRP): Topic 7 – Develop a Family Emergency Plan; Topic 8 – Download disaster electronic Apps; Topic 9 – Understand shallow flooding risks – “Don’t drive through standing water.”
2    CAL OP = Community At Large Outreach Projects; SFHA OP = Special Flood Hazard Area Communities Outreach Projects; TA OP = Target Audiences Outreach Project
3    Each September, all deliverables need to be reported to District for tracking purposes.
4
     A stakeholder can be any agency, organization, or person (other than the community itself) that supports the message. Stakeholders can be: an insurance company that publishes a brochures on flood insurance, even if it is set out at City Hall; a local newspaper that publishes a flood or hurricane season supplement each year; FEMA, if, for
     example, a FEMA brochure is used as an informational material; schools that implement outreach activities; a local newspaper; a neighborhood or civic association that sponsors and hosts a presentation by a community employee; a utility company that includes pertinent articles in its monthly bills; or presentations made by state or FEMA staff at a
     Risk Map meeting.
                                                                                                                                                                           10 of 27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ATTACHMENT NO. 1
                                                             Appendix A. The Multi-Jurisdictional PPI Worksheet for Santa Clara County - 2017 Annual Report Version (Year 2) Project Accomplishments


                                                                                                                           2015 PPI Plan
                                              1                                                                            2                                                                               3                      4                                                                            FY 2018
     Target                                       Message                               Outcome                            Project(s) Proposed to                                 Assignment                   Proposed               Stakeholder              CRS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Project Accomplishments
    Audience                                                                                                               Support the Messages                                                                Schedule                                     Community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Morgan Hill included information about the AlertSCC and ReadySCC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Apps in the City’s weekly newsletters/e-mail blasts during the months of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 September 2017, October 2017, January 2018, and March 2018. The City’s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 weekly newsletters were posted in the City’s website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Information on Red Cross Apps is posted on City of Palo Alto’s Flood
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Information/Winter Preparedness webpage.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Sunnyvale offers this information on website.

                                                                                                            CAL OP #30. Instruct people to download apps at personal                                                                                                             Apps information provided at several emergency preparedness events
                                                                                                            preparedness trainings                                                                                                                                               hosted by District and several SC County cities, including City of Palo Alto.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Los Altos website posting of “Calling on Los Altans to be Disaster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Prepared” provides links to AlertSCC.org, Red Cross and FEMA apps, and it
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 encourages the viewers to explore www.ready.gov for more information.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Milpitas’ Fire Department Office of Emergency Services offers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 instructions on downloading preparedness Apps. at City events and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 trainings.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Morgan Hill included information about the AlertSCC and ReadySCC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Apps in the City’s weekly newsletters/e-mail blasts during the months of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 September 2017, October 2017, January 2018, and March 2018. The City’s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 weekly newsletters were posted in the City’s website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Mountain View handed out Emergency Preparedness at Spanish
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Language Civic Leadership Class, also at one Council Neighborhood
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Committee Meeting and one Thursday Night Live event.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Sunnyvale staff instructed people to download emergency and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Flood apps at Farmer’s Market event.

                                                                                                            CAL OP #31. Post instruction on how to download apps. on         District Communications                                                                             Instructions on how to download AlertSCC, ReadySCC, American RedCross
                                                                                                            websites and electronic newsletters (Element 352 WEB1)           City representatives                                                                                Flood Apps on District and City of Palo Alto websites at:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 https://www.valleywater.org/flooding-safety/flood-protection-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 resources/sign-up-for-emergency-alerts

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Posted on City of Milpitas Fire Department Office of Emergency Services web
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 page.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Morgan Hill included information about the AlertSCC and ReadySCC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Apps in the City’s weekly newsletters/e-mail blasts during the months of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 September 2017, October 2017, January 2018, and March 2018. The City’s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 weekly newsletters were posted in the City’s website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Santa Clara’s “Inside Santa Clara” newsletter has instruction to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 download Red Cross App, and it is posted on City website.




     Message Topics: Outreach Projects (OP): Topic 1 – Know your flood hazard; Topic 2 – Insure your property for your flood hazard; Topic 3 – Protect people from the flood hazard; Topic 4 – Protect your property from the hazard; Topic 5 – Build responsibly; Topic 6 – Protect natural floodplain functions
                      Flood Response Preparations (FRP): Topic 7 – Develop a Family Emergency Plan; Topic 8 – Download disaster electronic Apps; Topic 9 – Understand shallow flooding risks – “Don’t drive through standing water.”
2    CAL OP = Community At Large Outreach Projects; SFHA OP = Special Flood Hazard Area Communities Outreach Projects; TA OP = Target Audiences Outreach Project
3    Each September, all deliverables need to be reported to District for tracking purposes.
4
     A stakeholder can be any agency, organization, or person (other than the community itself) that supports the message. Stakeholders can be: an insurance company that publishes a brochures on flood insurance, even if it is set out at City Hall; a local newspaper that publishes a flood or hurricane season supplement each year; FEMA, if, for
     example, a FEMA brochure is used as an informational material; schools that implement outreach activities; a local newspaper; a neighborhood or civic association that sponsors and hosts a presentation by a community employee; a utility company that includes pertinent articles in its monthly bills; or presentations made by state or FEMA staff at a
     Risk Map meeting.
                                                                                                                                                                           11 of 27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ATTACHMENT NO. 1
                                                               Appendix A. The Multi-Jurisdictional PPI Worksheet for Santa Clara County - 2017 Annual Report Version (Year 2) Project Accomplishments


                                                                                                                             2015 PPI Plan
                                                1                                                                            2                                                                               3                      4                                                                           FY 2018
      Target                                        Message                               Outcome                            Project(s) Proposed to                                 Assignment                   Proposed               Stakeholder              CRS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Project Accomplishments
    Audience                                                                                                                 Support the Messages                                                                Schedule                                     Community
Community At                                                                                                  CAL OP #32. Promote ALERT SCC - Santa Clara County               Cities CRS Coordinators                           Santa Clara County          All                   District promoted ALERTSCC in the FPM. AlertSCC is a service for anyone
                                                                                                              Emergency Alert System                                           District Communications                                                                             who lives or works in SC County to get emergency warnings sent directly to
Large (CAL)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        their electronic devices. AlertSCC provides information in emergency
The PPI Committee                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  situations like:
recognized that the
entire community that                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               •     Flooding, wildfires and subsequent evacuations.
lives and/or works in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               •     Public safety incidents, including crimes, that immediately affect
Santa Clara County is                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     your neighborhood.
subject to impacts due to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           •     Post-disaster information about shelters, transportation, or supplies
flooding. The CRS
typically focuses on                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               City of Gilroy promotes ALERT SCC on their website.
residential flooding, but
here, flooding of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  City of Los Altos social media messaging and City Manager Weekly Update
businesses and roads is                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            online newsletter encouraged download of the AlertSCC app and promoted
also very important.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               several different emergency training programs and drills. City of Los Altos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   website posting of “Calling on Los Altans to be Disaster Prepared” provides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   links to AlertSCC.org, Red Cross and FEMA apps, and it encourages the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   viewers to explore www.ready.gov for more information.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Posted on City of Milpitas Fire Department Office of Emergency Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   web page.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Morgan Hill included information about the AlertSCC App in the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City’s weekly newsletters/e-mail blasts during the months of October 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   and March 2018.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Information on Alert SCC- Santa Clara County Emergency Alert System is on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Palo Alto’s utility insert.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Santa Clara instructs people to sign-up for AlertSCC at CERT classes.

                                                                                                              CAL OP #33. Post ALERT SCC - Santa Clara County Emergency                                                                                                            Sign-up info posted on District and Palo Alto website at:
                                                                                                              Alert System on District and cities websites                                                                                                                         https://www.valleywater.org/flooding-safety/flood-protection-
                                                                                                              http://www.sccgov.org/sites/alertscc/Pages/home.aspx                                                                                                                 resources/sign-up-for-emergency-alerts
                                                                                                              (Element 352 WEB1 and WEB2)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Gilroy posts ALERT SCC link on their website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Los Altos posts AlertSCC app information on the City Website and in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   the City Manager Weekly Update online newsletter. City of Los Altos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   website posting of “Calling on Los Altans to be Disaster Prepared” provides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   links to AlertSCC.org, Red Cross and FEMA apps, and it encourages the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   viewers to explore www.ready.gov for more information.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Posted on City of Milpitas Fire Department Office of Emergency Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   web page.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Morgan Hill included information about the AlertSCC App in the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City’s weekly newsletters/e-mail blasts during the months of October 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   and March 2018. The City’s weekly newsletters were posted in the City’s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Alert SCC-Santa Clara County Emergency Alert System is posted on City of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Palo Alto’s Flood Information/Winter Preparedness webpage.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Santa Clara posts information on how to sign up for AlertSCC on City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   website.

       Message Topics: Outreach Projects (OP): Topic 1 – Know your flood hazard; Topic 2 – Insure your property for your flood hazard; Topic 3 – Protect people from the flood hazard; Topic 4 – Protect your property from the hazard; Topic 5 – Build responsibly; Topic 6 – Protect natural floodplain functions
                        Flood Response Preparations (FRP): Topic 7 – Develop a Family Emergency Plan; Topic 8 – Download disaster electronic Apps; Topic 9 – Understand shallow flooding risks – “Don’t drive through standing water.”
  2    CAL OP = Community At Large Outreach Projects; SFHA OP = Special Flood Hazard Area Communities Outreach Projects; TA OP = Target Audiences Outreach Project
  3    Each September, all deliverables need to be reported to District for tracking purposes.
  4
       A stakeholder can be any agency, organization, or person (other than the community itself) that supports the message. Stakeholders can be: an insurance company that publishes a brochures on flood insurance, even if it is set out at City Hall; a local newspaper that publishes a flood or hurricane season supplement each year; FEMA, if, for
       example, a FEMA brochure is used as an informational material; schools that implement outreach activities; a local newspaper; a neighborhood or civic association that sponsors and hosts a presentation by a community employee; a utility company that includes pertinent articles in its monthly bills; or presentations made by state or FEMA staff at a
       Risk Map meeting.
                                                                                                                                                                             12 of 27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ATTACHMENT NO. 1
                                                             Appendix A. The Multi-Jurisdictional PPI Worksheet for Santa Clara County - 2017 Annual Report Version (Year 2) Project Accomplishments


                                                                                                                           2015 PPI Plan
                                              1                                                                            2                                                                               3                      4                                                                           FY 2018
     Target                                       Message                               Outcome                            Project(s) Proposed to                                 Assignment                   Proposed               Stakeholder              CRS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Project Accomplishments
    Audience                                                                                                               Support the Messages                                                                Schedule                                     Community
                          Topic 7: Develop a Family Emergency Plan                 Increase in Family       CAL OP#34. Workshop/contest to promote developing family         District Communications      Year-Round           Schools                     All                   District promoted emergency preparedness on Facebook and Twitter
                          Messages: Be prepared for flood and other disasters      Emergency Plan and       Emergency Plans; Reaching out to a celebrity to carry our        and City representatives                          American Red Cross                                during National Preparedness Month in September. District’s education
                                                                                   less stress during       message                                                          with assistance from                              Celebrity, TBD                                    outreach team held “Are you Flood Ready?” flood awareness coloring
                                                                                   emergencies                                                                               Stakeholders                                      FEMA                                              contest. Contest required students to indicate what items they should put
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               California                                        in their emergency kit and explain their family emergency plan. Contest
                                                                                   More people know                                                                                                                            Volunteers.org                                    closed in March 2018 and received over 350 entries from 16 different
                                                                                   what to do in an                                                                                                                                                                              schools in cities throughout the county.
                                                                                   emergency
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Family Emergency Plan information is also included in District’s FPM and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CWM.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Los Altos police conducts Community Emergency Response Team
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (CERT) training to residents. The City of Los Altos also promotes the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PREPARE program by the Los Altos Community Foundation. The program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 provides training to Block Action Team Leaders for emergency
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 preparedness, response, and recovery. The City of Los Altos offers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 complementary Personal Emergency Preparedness courses taught by the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SCC Fire Department personnel. City of Los Altos website posting of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 “Calling on Los Altans to be Disaster Prepared” provides a link to sign up for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 this class.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Milpitas Fire Department conducts SAFE training for resident that
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 includes a component of developing emergency plans.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Morgan Hill declared September 2017 as “National Preparedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Month. The City also included information on putting together an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 emergency kit, creating a family communication emergency plan, signing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 up for emergency notifications and Community Emergency Response Team
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (CERT) Free Basic Training in the City’s weekly newsletters/e-mail blasts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 during the months of September 2017 and October 2017. The City’s Office
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 of Emergency Services hosted a free Emergency Preparedness Seminar on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 November 6, 2017.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Mountain View and City of Milpitas handed out District emergency
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 starter kits at various community events with request that residents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 complete an emergency plan with their family.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Distributed District’s emergency starter kits at Earth Day Fair and at City of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Palo Alto’s Municipal Fair.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Santa Clara handed out District emergency starter kits at various
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 community events with request that residents complete an emergency
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 plan with their family.

                                                                                                            CAL OP #35. Post Family Emergency Plan template form on                                                                                                              Templates for Family Emergency Plan are posted on the District’s website
                                                                                                            website                                                                                                                                                              in the FPM under “What to Do Before” section.
                                                                                                            http://www.redcross.org/images/MEDIA_CustomProductCat                                                                                                                https://www.valleywater.org/floodready/flood-safety-tips re-directing to
                                                                                                            alog/m12140360_ARC_Family_Disaster_Plan_Template_r08                                                                                                                 https://www.ready.gov/make-a-plan
                                                                                                            3012.pdf?campmedium=internal_link_download&campname
                                                                                                            =family_disaster_plan_english or                                                                                                                                     Additionally, hard copies of FEMA’s Family Emergency Plan template were
                                                                                                            http://www.californiavolunteers.org/familyplan/pdf/family_                                                                                                           included in the emergency starter kits handed out by District and/or cities’
                                                                                                            plan.pdf (Element 352 WEB1 and 2)                                                                                                                                    staff at several emergency preparedness events held throughout the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 county.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Gilroy website provides a link to FEMA’s website.



     Message Topics: Outreach Projects (OP): Topic 1 – Know your flood hazard; Topic 2 – Insure your property for your flood hazard; Topic 3 – Protect people from the flood hazard; Topic 4 – Protect your property from the hazard; Topic 5 – Build responsibly; Topic 6 – Protect natural floodplain functions
                      Flood Response Preparations (FRP): Topic 7 – Develop a Family Emergency Plan; Topic 8 – Download disaster electronic Apps; Topic 9 – Understand shallow flooding risks – “Don’t drive through standing water.”
2    CAL OP = Community At Large Outreach Projects; SFHA OP = Special Flood Hazard Area Communities Outreach Projects; TA OP = Target Audiences Outreach Project
3    Each September, all deliverables need to be reported to District for tracking purposes.
4
     A stakeholder can be any agency, organization, or person (other than the community itself) that supports the message. Stakeholders can be: an insurance company that publishes a brochures on flood insurance, even if it is set out at City Hall; a local newspaper that publishes a flood or hurricane season supplement each year; FEMA, if, for
     example, a FEMA brochure is used as an informational material; schools that implement outreach activities; a local newspaper; a neighborhood or civic association that sponsors and hosts a presentation by a community employee; a utility company that includes pertinent articles in its monthly bills; or presentations made by state or FEMA staff at a
     Risk Map meeting.
                                                                                                                                                                           13 of 27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ATTACHMENT NO. 1
                                                               Appendix A. The Multi-Jurisdictional PPI Worksheet for Santa Clara County - 2017 Annual Report Version (Year 2) Project Accomplishments


                                                                                                                             2015 PPI Plan
                                                1                                                                            2                                                                               3                      4                                                                           FY 2018
       Target                                       Message                               Outcome                            Project(s) Proposed to                                 Assignment                   Proposed               Stakeholder              CRS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Project Accomplishments
      Audience                                                                                                               Support the Messages                                                                Schedule                                     Community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Los Altos, in collaboration with SCC Fire, provides a once a month a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3-Hour Personal Emergency Preparedness Class, free of charge. City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   website posting of “Calling on Los Altos to be Disaster Prepared” provides a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   link to sign up for this class.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Los Altos website page encourages families to plan communication
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   before flooding/emergencies and includes link to FEMA communication
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   plan steps and template. City of Los Altos, in collaboration with SCC Fire,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   provides a once a month a 3-Hour Personal Emergency Preparedness Class,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   free of charge. City website posting of “Calling on Los Altos to be Disaster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Prepared” provides a link to sign up for this class.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Family Emergency Plan template posted on City of Milpitas Fire
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Department Office of Emergency Services webpage.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Morgan Hill’s Emergency Services webpage has a link to FEMA's
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   website which contains a fillable Family Emergency Communication Plan.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Emergency starter kits handed out at City events also included a copy of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FEMA’s Family Emergency Plan template.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Family emergency plan templates are posted on City of Palo Alto’s website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Santa Clara website has family emergency preparedness instruction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   and links to family emergency plan template on FEMA, CDC, and DHS.

                                                                                                              CAL OP#36. Include message “What to Do….Before – Prepare         District Communications      October – March                                  All                   Messages were included in District’s FPM and CWM.
                                                                                                              a Family Emergency Plan….” in District’s CWM                     City representatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Milpitas citywide informational “SFHA brochure” included this
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   message.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Morgan Hill’s weekly newsletters/e-mail blasts included this
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   message during the months of September 2017 and October 2017. City of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Morgan Hill’s Emergency Services webpage has a link to FEMA's website
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   that contains this message.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   On City of Mountain View website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Santa Clara’s “Inside Santa Clara” newsletter includes message what
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   to do before, during, and after flood.

Community At                Topic 7: Develop a Family Emergency Plan                 Increase in Family       CAL OP #37. Post message “What to Do….Before – Prepare a         District Communications                                                       All                   FPM was posted on the District’s website
                            Messages: Be prepared for flood and other disasters      Emergency Plan and       Family Emergency Plan….” on website (Element 352 WEB1            City representatives                                                                                http://apps2.valleywater.org/publication/flipbook/808_FloodMailer2017/
Large (CAL)                                                                          less stress during       and 2)                                                                                                                                                               mobile/index.html#p=1 Additional tips also listed on website:
The PPI Committee                                                                    emergencies                                                                                                                                                                                   https://www.valleywater.org/floodready/flood-safety-tips
recognized that the
entire community that                                                                More people know                                                                                                                                                                              City of Los Altos website page encourages families to plan communication
lives and/or works in                                                                what to do in an                                                                                                                                                                              before flooding/ emergencies and includes link to FEMA communication
Santa Clara County is                                                                emergency                                                                                                                                                                                     plan steps and template.
subject to impacts due to
flooding. The CRS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  City of Milpitas citywide informational “SFHA brochure” is posted on City
typically focuses on                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               website.
residential flooding, but
here, flooding of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  City of Morgan Hill’s weekly newsletters/e-mail blasts with this message
businesses and roads is                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            were posted in the City’s website.
also very important.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   On City of Mountain View website and link to District’s webpage.


       Message Topics: Outreach Projects (OP): Topic 1 – Know your flood hazard; Topic 2 – Insure your property for your flood hazard; Topic 3 – Protect people from the flood hazard; Topic 4 – Protect your property from the hazard; Topic 5 – Build responsibly; Topic 6 – Protect natural floodplain functions
                        Flood Response Preparations (FRP): Topic 7 – Develop a Family Emergency Plan; Topic 8 – Download disaster electronic Apps; Topic 9 – Understand shallow flooding risks – “Don’t drive through standing water.”
  2    CAL OP = Community At Large Outreach Projects; SFHA OP = Special Flood Hazard Area Communities Outreach Projects; TA OP = Target Audiences Outreach Project
  3    Each September, all deliverables need to be reported to District for tracking purposes.
  4
       A stakeholder can be any agency, organization, or person (other than the community itself) that supports the message. Stakeholders can be: an insurance company that publishes a brochures on flood insurance, even if it is set out at City Hall; a local newspaper that publishes a flood or hurricane season supplement each year; FEMA, if, for
       example, a FEMA brochure is used as an informational material; schools that implement outreach activities; a local newspaper; a neighborhood or civic association that sponsors and hosts a presentation by a community employee; a utility company that includes pertinent articles in its monthly bills; or presentations made by state or FEMA staff at a
       Risk Map meeting.
                                                                                                                                                                             14 of 27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ATTACHMENT NO. 1
                                                             Appendix A. The Multi-Jurisdictional PPI Worksheet for Santa Clara County - 2017 Annual Report Version (Year 2) Project Accomplishments


                                                                                                                           2015 PPI Plan
                                              1                                                                            2                                                                               3                      4                                                                           FY 2018
     Target                                       Message                               Outcome                            Project(s) Proposed to                                 Assignment                   Proposed               Stakeholder              CRS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Project Accomplishments
    Audience                                                                                                               Support the Messages                                                                Schedule                                     Community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Messages on what to do before emergency and on preparing a family
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 emergency plan are posted on City of Palo Alto’s Flood Information/Winter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Preparedness website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Santa Clara’s “Inside Santa Clara” newsletter is posted on City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 website.

                                                                                                            CAL OP#38. Promote the official site of the NFIP                 District Communications                                                       All                   Federal Flood Insurance Program (Floodsmart.gov) information linked on
                                                                                                            Floodsmart.gov for flood preparation and recovery messages       City CRS Coordinator and                                                                            District’s flood protection landing page website as well as included FPM.
                                                                                                                                                                             Communications staff                                                                                Although Floodsmart.gov website was down during most of FY18, we
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 include the link on our website which re-directed to FEMA’s NFIP landing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 page https://www.valleywater.org/floodready/flood-insurance

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 The NFIP information and web link is posted on the City of Los Altos website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Milpitas citywide informational “SFHA brochure promotes the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Floodsmart.gov website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 On City of Mountain View website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Information on Floodsmart.gov is on City of Palo Alto’s utility insert.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Santa Clara did not promote floodsmart.gov during FY17-18 because
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 the website was down.

                                                                                                            CAL OP #39. Post message “NFIP Floodsmart.gov Flood              District Communications                                                       All                   Federal Flood Insurance Program (Floodsmart.gov) posted on District
                                                                                                            Preparation and Recovery….” on website                           City CRS Coordinator and                                                                            website directing audience to FEMA’s NFIP website while Floodsmart.gov is
                                                                                                                                                                             Communications staff                                                                                under redesign.
                                                                                                            https://www.floodsmart.gov/floodsmart/pages/preparation
                                                                                                            _recovery/before_a_flood.jsp (Element 352 WEB1 and 2)                                                                                                                The NFIP information and web link is posted on the City of Los Altos website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Milpitas citywide informational “SFHA brochure” posted on City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 website with link to the Floodsmart.gov website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Information on Floodsmart.gov is posted on City’ of Palo Alto’s Flood
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Information/Winter Preparedness website.

                          Topics 1, 3, & 4                                         Less damage due to       CAL OP #40. Sandbags available at various sites throughout       District Vegetation Unit     November             All County residents        All                   Published SC County map of sandbag locations in Winter Prep flier and
                          Messages: Protect people and property from flood         the floods; improve      county                                                           City of Palo Alto Public     through April        Community                                         FPM.
                          hazards                                                  sandbag distribution                                                                      Works                                             organizations (SF Creek
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               JPA, Boys Scouts, etc.)                           City of Gilroy has various sandbag sites located throughout the city.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Los Altos prepare a sandbag station(s) for complimentary sandbags.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Milpitas has four (4) sandbag stations offering complimentary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 sandbags.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Morgan Hill’s April 8, 2018 weekly newsletter/e-mail blast included
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 information on the locations of sandbag stations.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Sandbags available at City of Mountain View Maintenance Operation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Center and information website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Palo Alto and District have various sandbag site locations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 throughout the city.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Santa Clara provides sandbags at City Corp yard.

     Message Topics: Outreach Projects (OP): Topic 1 – Know your flood hazard; Topic 2 – Insure your property for your flood hazard; Topic 3 – Protect people from the flood hazard; Topic 4 – Protect your property from the hazard; Topic 5 – Build responsibly; Topic 6 – Protect natural floodplain functions
                      Flood Response Preparations (FRP): Topic 7 – Develop a Family Emergency Plan; Topic 8 – Download disaster electronic Apps; Topic 9 – Understand shallow flooding risks – “Don’t drive through standing water.”
2    CAL OP = Community At Large Outreach Projects; SFHA OP = Special Flood Hazard Area Communities Outreach Projects; TA OP = Target Audiences Outreach Project
3    Each September, all deliverables need to be reported to District for tracking purposes.
4
     A stakeholder can be any agency, organization, or person (other than the community itself) that supports the message. Stakeholders can be: an insurance company that publishes a brochures on flood insurance, even if it is set out at City Hall; a local newspaper that publishes a flood or hurricane season supplement each year; FEMA, if, for
     example, a FEMA brochure is used as an informational material; schools that implement outreach activities; a local newspaper; a neighborhood or civic association that sponsors and hosts a presentation by a community employee; a utility company that includes pertinent articles in its monthly bills; or presentations made by state or FEMA staff at a
     Risk Map meeting.
                                                                                                                                                                           15 of 27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ATTACHMENT NO. 1
                                                             Appendix A. The Multi-Jurisdictional PPI Worksheet for Santa Clara County - 2017 Annual Report Version (Year 2) Project Accomplishments


                                                                                                                           2015 PPI Plan
                                              1                                                                            2                                                                               3                      4                                                                            FY 2018
     Target                                       Message                               Outcome                            Project(s) Proposed to                                 Assignment                   Proposed               Stakeholder              CRS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Project Accomplishments
    Audience                                                                                                               Support the Messages                                                                Schedule                                     Community




                                                                                                            CAL OP #41. Post sandbag information on website, including       District Communications      Year-Round                                                             Sandbag distribution sites map/flier, webcams for certain sandbag sites,
                                                                                                            How to Use Sandbags, sandbag webcams to view availability,                                                                                                           and sandbagging techniques video for correct positioning and tips. Posted
                                                                                                            etc. (Element 352 WEB1 and 2)                                                                                                                                        on District’s website. https://www.valleywater.org/floodready/sandbags

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Gilroy posts sandbag information using social media.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Los Altos provides information on website on how to prepare for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 storms and emergencies (e.gh. How to get and use free sandbags, tree
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 maintenance, dispose of leaf litter, remove debris, prepare an emergency
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 kit).

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Milpitas sandbag station locations posted on City website and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 referral bulletin on KMLP-15.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Morgan Hill’s April 8, 2018 weekly newsletter/e-mail blast with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 information on the locations of sandbag stations was posted in the City’s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 website. Sandbag information was also posted in the City’s Flooding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Information webpage.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 On City of Mountain View website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Information on sand bag locations is posted on the City of Palo Alto’s Flood
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Information/Winter Preparedness website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Santa Clara website has sandbag information.

                          Topics 1 & 9: Know your flood hazard; Understand         Fewer accidents and      CAL OP #42. Permanent street signage (2 signs/City/year);        Cities PWD                   Year-Round           FEMA                        All                   City of Palo Alto installed two signs.
                          shallow flooding risks                                   rescues                  each City will determine best location for signage and will      County Planning                                   Caltrans
                          Messages: Drive slowly; Avoid shallow moving water;                               install them. “Subject to Flooding” (Cities to coordinate        Gilroy Chamber of                                 Gilroy Chamber of                                 City of Sunnyvale installed two “Road May Flood” street signs.
                          2 ft. water moves vehicles; FEMA’s message: “Turn                                 common standard message design)                                  Commerce                                          Commerce
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               American Red Cross
                                              ®
                          Around Don't Drown .”
                                                                                                            CAL OP#43. Include message “What to Do….After – Turn             District Communications                           Residents and people        All                   Messages were included in the District’s FPM.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               who work in county
                                                                                                                                 ®
                                                                                                            Around Don’t Drown ….” in District’s CWM
                                                                                                                                                                             City representatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Los Altos included “Do not drive on flooded roadways” in police
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 social media post. Los Altos SFHA mailer brochure posted on website warns
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 not to attempt to drive or wade through deep pockets of water or running
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 washes.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Milpitas citywide informational “SFHA brochure” included this
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 message.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Posted link to District’s webpage on City of Mountain View website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Message “What to do after storm and turn around don’t drown” is on City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 of Palo Alto’s utility insert and District’s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FPM.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Santa Clara’s “Inside Santa Clara” newsletter has this message.

                                                                                                            CAL OP #44. Post message “What to Do….After – Turn               District Communications                                                                             Messages posted on District’s website.
                                                                                                                                 ®
                                                                                                            Around Don’t Drown ….” on website (Element 352 WEB1
                                                                                                                                                                             City representatives

                                                                                                            and 2)
     Message Topics: Outreach Projects (OP): Topic 1 – Know your flood hazard; Topic 2 – Insure your property for your flood hazard; Topic 3 – Protect people from the flood hazard; Topic 4 – Protect your property from the hazard; Topic 5 – Build responsibly; Topic 6 – Protect natural floodplain functions
                      Flood Response Preparations (FRP): Topic 7 – Develop a Family Emergency Plan; Topic 8 – Download disaster electronic Apps; Topic 9 – Understand shallow flooding risks – “Don’t drive through standing water.”
2    CAL OP = Community At Large Outreach Projects; SFHA OP = Special Flood Hazard Area Communities Outreach Projects; TA OP = Target Audiences Outreach Project
3    Each September, all deliverables need to be reported to District for tracking purposes.
4
     A stakeholder can be any agency, organization, or person (other than the community itself) that supports the message. Stakeholders can be: an insurance company that publishes a brochures on flood insurance, even if it is set out at City Hall; a local newspaper that publishes a flood or hurricane season supplement each year; FEMA, if, for
     example, a FEMA brochure is used as an informational material; schools that implement outreach activities; a local newspaper; a neighborhood or civic association that sponsors and hosts a presentation by a community employee; a utility company that includes pertinent articles in its monthly bills; or presentations made by state or FEMA staff at a
     Risk Map meeting.
                                                                                                                                                                           16 of 27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ATTACHMENT NO. 1
                                                               Appendix A. The Multi-Jurisdictional PPI Worksheet for Santa Clara County - 2017 Annual Report Version (Year 2) Project Accomplishments


                                                                                                                             2015 PPI Plan
                                                1                                                                            2                                                                               3                      4                                                                            FY 2018
       Target                                       Message                               Outcome                            Project(s) Proposed to                                 Assignment                   Proposed               Stakeholder              CRS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Project Accomplishments
      Audience                                                                                                               Support the Messages                                                                Schedule                                     Community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Milpitas citywide informational “SFHA brochure” included this
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   message.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Palo Alto’s utility insert is posted on City’s Flood Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Santa Clara’s “Inside Santa Clara” newsletter is posted on city
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   website.

                                                                                                              CAL OP #45. Post shallow flooding risks information on           District Communications                                                       All                   Risk of driving through standing water is included in FPM which is posted
                                                                                                              websites (Element 352 WEB1 and 2)                                Cities Communications                                                                               on District’s website, and in flood safety tips listed on District’s website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Milpitas citywide informational “SFHA brochure” included this
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   message.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Information on shallow flooding risks are posted City of Palo Alto’s Flood
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Information website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Shallow water hazard message posted to Twitter by City of Santa Clara.

                                                                                                              CAL OP #46. Promote City’s online “Flood Zone Lookup” tool       City of Palo Alto Public                                                      City of Palo Alto     District promotes FEMA’s Flood Map Service Center on our website:
                                                                                                              on Website (Element 352 WEB1 and 2)                              Works                                                                                               https://www.valleywater.org/floodready/is-your-home-in-a-flood-zone

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Milpitas citywide informational “SFHA brochure” included this
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   message.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Information on City of Palo Alto’s Flood Zone Look Up is available both on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   utility insert and City’s Flood Information website.

Community At                Topics 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, & 9                       Educate our              CAL OP #47. Flood Awareness Campaign, including radio and        District Communications      October-April        FEMA                        All                   District’s Flood Awareness Campaign - Radio spots ran for 17 weeks in 2
                            Message: Know your flood risk and be prepared; buy       community on flood       bus ads. For this year, we are preparing to have radio ads       Cities Communications                             Radio Stations                                    mainstream English stations, Spanish, Vietnamese and Chinese language
Large (CAL)                 flood insurance                                          protection and           ready to place, but we’ll only place them if/when there are                                                        Valley Transportation                             stations over the course of 4 months. From the months of September
The PPI Committee                                                                    preparedness             major storm systems in the forecast                                                                                Authority                                         through March, the District featured 39 Facebook and 34 Twitter posts
recognized that the                                                                  measures                                                                                                                                    American Red Cross                                with the flood safety messages. These posts included links to the Flood
entire community that                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Awareness Campaign elements on the District’s website.
lives and/or works in                                                                Increase in ‘hits’ on
Santa Clara County is                                                                District and cities                                                                                                                                                                           City of Gilroy Emergency Radio Station AM1610.
subject to impacts due to                                                            Flood Protection
flooding. The CRS                                                                    Resources pages and                                                                                                                                                                           Outreach materials were displayed at Los Altos City Hall front counter and
typically focuses on                                                                 improve District’s                                                                                                                                                                            Library. An ad article titled "Flood Insurance Information Available" was
residential flooding, but                                                            Flood Campaign                                                                                                                                                                                published two times in the Los Altos Town Crier, providing Flood
here, flooding of                                                                    results                                                                                                                                                                                       Awareness information and promoting flood insurance. City of Los Altos
businesses and roads is                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            website encourages emergency planning. The City of Los Altos website
also very important.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               promotes Community Emergency Response Team (CERT) academy training,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   which is hosted by Police Department for residents. The Los Altos website
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   also promotes the activities of the Los Altos PREPARE program by the Los
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Altos Community Foundation and training of Block Action Team Leaders for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   emergency preparedness, response, and recovery. City of Los Altos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   provides information on its website on how to prepare for storms and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   emergencies (e.g. How to get and use free sandbags, tree maintenance,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   dispose of leaf litter, remove debris, prepare an emergency kit). City of Los
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Altos provides contact & after-hours number on City website for reporting
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   storm-related hazards. The City of Los Altos weekly newsletter email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   included 20 issues with content on flood information, insurance, and/or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   emergency preparations.



       Message Topics: Outreach Projects (OP): Topic 1 – Know your flood hazard; Topic 2 – Insure your property for your flood hazard; Topic 3 – Protect people from the flood hazard; Topic 4 – Protect your property from the hazard; Topic 5 – Build responsibly; Topic 6 – Protect natural floodplain functions
                        Flood Response Preparations (FRP): Topic 7 – Develop a Family Emergency Plan; Topic 8 – Download disaster electronic Apps; Topic 9 – Understand shallow flooding risks – “Don’t drive through standing water.”
  2    CAL OP = Community At Large Outreach Projects; SFHA OP = Special Flood Hazard Area Communities Outreach Projects; TA OP = Target Audiences Outreach Project
  3    Each September, all deliverables need to be reported to District for tracking purposes.
  4
       A stakeholder can be any agency, organization, or person (other than the community itself) that supports the message. Stakeholders can be: an insurance company that publishes a brochures on flood insurance, even if it is set out at City Hall; a local newspaper that publishes a flood or hurricane season supplement each year; FEMA, if, for
       example, a FEMA brochure is used as an informational material; schools that implement outreach activities; a local newspaper; a neighborhood or civic association that sponsors and hosts a presentation by a community employee; a utility company that includes pertinent articles in its monthly bills; or presentations made by state or FEMA staff at a
       Risk Map meeting.
                                                                                                                                                                             17 of 27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ATTACHMENT NO. 1
                                                             Appendix A. The Multi-Jurisdictional PPI Worksheet for Santa Clara County - 2017 Annual Report Version (Year 2) Project Accomplishments


                                                                                                                           2015 PPI Plan
                                              1                                                                            2                                                                               3                      4                                                                           FY 2018
     Target                                       Message                               Outcome                            Project(s) Proposed to                                 Assignment                   Proposed               Stakeholder              CRS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Project Accomplishments
    Audience                                                                                                               Support the Messages                                                                Schedule                                     Community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Morgan Hill’s April 8, 2018 weekly newsletter/e-mail blast included
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 the Santa Clara Valley Water District’s Storm Update and Resource Links.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Palo Alto’s Emergency Services Department promotes several
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 hazard related messages, including flood awareness; they lead a campaign
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 effort in support of these messages.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Mountain View proclamation recognizing Red Cross Month on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 March 2018

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Palo Alto’s Emergency Services promotes campaign on hazards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 including flood awareness.




                                                                                                            CAL OP #48. Post Flood Awareness Campaign elements on            District Communications      Year-Round           Facebook, Twitter,          All                   Social media posts referred to above link to elements in the flood
                                                                                                            District website (Element 352 WEB1 and 2)                        Cities Communications                             Google+, LinkedIn,                                awareness campaign. The District’s news blog, Valley Water News, also
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Instagram, etc.                                   features stories on campaign elements: wwww.valleywaternews.org

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Morgan Hill’s April 8, 2018 weekly newsletter/e-mail blast which
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 included the Santa Clara Valley Water District’s Storm Update and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Resource Links was also posted in the City’s Flooding Information webpage.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Palo Alto noted this was on District’s website.

                                                                                                            CAL OP #49. Post Flood Awareness Campaign information on         District Communications      Year-Round                                                             Several elements of the District’s Flood Awareness Campaign are promoted
                                                                                                            websites (Element 352 WEB1 and 2)                                Cities Communications                                                                               throughout the website, for example radio spots, ads., flood safety tips,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 etc.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Los Altos website encourages emergency planning. The City of Los
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Altos website promotes Community Emergency Response Team (CERT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 academy training, which is hosted by Police Department for residents. The
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Los Altos website also promotes the activities of the Los Altos PREPARE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 program by the Los Altos Community Foundation and training of Block
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Action Team Leaders for emergency preparedness, response, and recovery.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Los Altos provides information on its website on how to prepare for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 storms and emergencies (e.g. How to get and use free sandbags, tree
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 maintenance, dispose of leaf litter, remove debris, prepare an emergency
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 kit). City of Los Altos provides contact & after-hours number on City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 website for reporting storm-related hazards. The City of Los Altos weekly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 newsletter email included 20 issues with content on flood information,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 insurance, and/or emergency preparations.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Morgan Hill’s April 8, 2018 weekly newsletter/e-mail blast which
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 included the Santa Clara Valley Water District’s Storm Update and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Resource Links was also posted in the City’s Flooding Information webpage.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 On City of Mountain View website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Santa Clara has Flood Awareness material set out at City Hall and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City library.




     Message Topics: Outreach Projects (OP): Topic 1 – Know your flood hazard; Topic 2 – Insure your property for your flood hazard; Topic 3 – Protect people from the flood hazard; Topic 4 – Protect your property from the hazard; Topic 5 – Build responsibly; Topic 6 – Protect natural floodplain functions
                      Flood Response Preparations (FRP): Topic 7 – Develop a Family Emergency Plan; Topic 8 – Download disaster electronic Apps; Topic 9 – Understand shallow flooding risks – “Don’t drive through standing water.”
2    CAL OP = Community At Large Outreach Projects; SFHA OP = Special Flood Hazard Area Communities Outreach Projects; TA OP = Target Audiences Outreach Project
3    Each September, all deliverables need to be reported to District for tracking purposes.
4
     A stakeholder can be any agency, organization, or person (other than the community itself) that supports the message. Stakeholders can be: an insurance company that publishes a brochures on flood insurance, even if it is set out at City Hall; a local newspaper that publishes a flood or hurricane season supplement each year; FEMA, if, for
     example, a FEMA brochure is used as an informational material; schools that implement outreach activities; a local newspaper; a neighborhood or civic association that sponsors and hosts a presentation by a community employee; a utility company that includes pertinent articles in its monthly bills; or presentations made by state or FEMA staff at a
     Risk Map meeting.
                                                                                                                                                                           18 of 27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ATTACHMENT NO. 1
                                                             Appendix A. The Multi-Jurisdictional PPI Worksheet for Santa Clara County - 2017 Annual Report Version (Year 2) Project Accomplishments


                                                                                                                           2015 PPI Plan
                                              1                                                                            2                                                                               3                      4                                                                            FY 2018
     Target                                       Message                               Outcome                            Project(s) Proposed to                                 Assignment                   Proposed               Stakeholder              CRS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Project Accomplishments
    Audience                                                                                                               Support the Messages                                                                Schedule                                     Community
                                                                                                            CAL OP 50. Distribute flood prevention materials at fairs                                                          Fair Sponsors                                     During the months of September through March, District and/or cities’
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 staff attended community fairs/events where flood safety information and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 flood prevention materials was shared. The District attended at least 17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 community events/fairs.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Outreach materials distributed to public at City of Los Altos Fall Festival by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Police Department. Flood emergency readiness kits distributed to public
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 at Los Altos Fall Festival by Police Department to each attendee who
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 completed a survey.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Milpitas distributed Family Emergency Starter Kits and other flood
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 prevention collateral materials at multiple city sponsored events.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Morgan Hill handed out emergency starter kits on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 November 3, 2017, at the Emergency Preparedness Workshop for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Afterschool Youth Program, and on December 5, 2017 during staff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 presentation at Morgan Hill Youth Action Council (YAC) Meeting.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Sunnyvale distributed Family Emergency Starter Kits and flood
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 prevention brochures at Farmer’s Market event.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Distributed Water District’s emergency preparedness starter kits on Earth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Day and City of Palo Alto MSC Fair.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Santa Clara distributed flood emergency starter kits at Art & Wine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Festival and another community event.

                                                                                                            CAL OP #51. Social Media Messaging (such as Facebook,                                                              Fair Sponsors                                     See above-noted response to CAL OP#47.
                                                                                                            Twitter, LinkedIn, Instagram, etc.)                                                                                Residents who share
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               posts                                             City of Gilroy uses social media to post flood awareness campaign
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Facebook, Twitter,                                information.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Google, LinkedIn,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Instagram, etc.                                   City of Los Altos and Los Altos Police social media posted 16 messages
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 about flooding or emergency preparation in FY 17-18. The Los Altos social
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 media messaging encouraged download of the AlertSCC app and promoted
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 several emergency training programs and drills.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Public Safety Social Media link is posted on the City of Palo Alto’s utility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 insert.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Santa Clara posted social media message with topics on protect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 people and property from the hazard (Topics 3 & 4).

                                                                                                            CAL OP #52. Post social media messages on websites                                                                                                                   See above-noted response to CAL OP#48.
                                                                                                            (Element 352 WEB1 and 2)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Gilroy website posts flood awareness campaign information.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Los Altos and Los Altos Police social media posted 16 messages
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 about flooding or emergency preparation in FY 17-18. The Los Altos social
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 media messaging encouraged download of the AlertSCC app and promoted
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 several emergency training programs and drills.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Message posted on City of Santa Clara website.

                                                                                                            CAL OP #53. Staffing booths at fairs                             District Communications      Year-Round           Fair Sponsor                All                   See above-noted response to CAL OP#50.
                                                                                                                                                                             Cities Communications                             Residents who attend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               booths

     Message Topics: Outreach Projects (OP): Topic 1 – Know your flood hazard; Topic 2 – Insure your property for your flood hazard; Topic 3 – Protect people from the flood hazard; Topic 4 – Protect your property from the hazard; Topic 5 – Build responsibly; Topic 6 – Protect natural floodplain functions
                      Flood Response Preparations (FRP): Topic 7 – Develop a Family Emergency Plan; Topic 8 – Download disaster electronic Apps; Topic 9 – Understand shallow flooding risks – “Don’t drive through standing water.”
2    CAL OP = Community At Large Outreach Projects; SFHA OP = Special Flood Hazard Area Communities Outreach Projects; TA OP = Target Audiences Outreach Project
3    Each September, all deliverables need to be reported to District for tracking purposes.
4
     A stakeholder can be any agency, organization, or person (other than the community itself) that supports the message. Stakeholders can be: an insurance company that publishes a brochures on flood insurance, even if it is set out at City Hall; a local newspaper that publishes a flood or hurricane season supplement each year; FEMA, if, for
     example, a FEMA brochure is used as an informational material; schools that implement outreach activities; a local newspaper; a neighborhood or civic association that sponsors and hosts a presentation by a community employee; a utility company that includes pertinent articles in its monthly bills; or presentations made by state or FEMA staff at a
     Risk Map meeting.
                                                                                                                                                                           19 of 27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ATTACHMENT NO. 1
                                                               Appendix A. The Multi-Jurisdictional PPI Worksheet for Santa Clara County - 2017 Annual Report Version (Year 2) Project Accomplishments


                                                                                                                             2015 PPI Plan
                                                1                                                                            2                                                                               3                      4                                                                           FY 2018
       Target                                       Message                               Outcome                            Project(s) Proposed to                                 Assignment                   Proposed               Stakeholder              CRS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Project Accomplishments
      Audience                                                                                                               Support the Messages                                                                Schedule                                     Community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   District attended various city sponsored events and distributed collateral
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   materials related to flood prevention

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Outreach materials distributed to public at City of Los Altos Fall Festival by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Police Department. Flood emergency readiness kits distributed to public
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   at City of Los Altos Fall Festival by Police Department to each attendee who
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   completed a survey.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Milpitas distributed Family Emergency Starter Kits and other flood
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   prevention collateral materials at the May 20-21, 2017 Milpitas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   International BBQ & Festival.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Distributed Winter Preparedness fliers and family emergency starter kits at
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Earth Day Fair and City of Palo Alto MSC Fair.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Santa Clara has a Department of Public Works booth at Art & Wine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Festival to distribute flood prevention materials.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Sunnyvale distributed Family Emergency Starter Kits and flood
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   prevention brochures at Farmer’s Market event.

Special Flood               Topics 4 & 6                                             Cleaner streams and      SFHA OP #1. “Do Not Dump” message is sent each year to all       District Communications      October/             FEMA                        All                   District’s annual FPM sent in January to 53,243 parcels which includes
                            Message: Keep debris and trash out of our streams.       fewer dumping            SFHA residents county-wide in the District’s annual                                           November 2015        SCVURPPP                                          message of keeping creeks clean and healthy.
Hazard Area                 It’s illegal to dump into streams                        violations               Floodplain Mailer (FPM) (2014 FPM reached 71,000 residents                                    annually
(SFHA)                                                                                                        & businesses) (target outreach – 6 points per topic)                                                                                                                 City of Milpitas citywide informational “SFHA brochure” included this
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   message.
Communities
The PPI Committee
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Los Altos annual mailer and brochure provide information regarding
identified several
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Flood program with an emphasis on “Do Not Dump” message. City of Los
geographic areas that are
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Altos also communicates “Do Not Dump” message through litter mailer
particularly prone to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   sent to property owners in the City’s Trash Management Area 1, which is
flooding.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   characterized by higher trash level.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   In December 2016, City of Milpitas mailed out citywide informational
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   “SFHA brochure” that included this message.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   “Do not Dump” message is posted on City of Palo Alto’s utility insert.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Santa Clara “Inside Santa Clara” newsletter includes DO NOT DUMP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   message.

                                                                                     Less flooding damage     SFHA OP #2. Post Floodplain Mailer on website (Element 352       District Communications      Year-Round                                       All                   FPM posted on District and Palo Alto’s websites.
                                                                                     due to debris build-     WEB1 and 2)
                                                                                     up                                                                                                                                                                                            City of Los Altos has posted the SFHA mailer and brochure on the City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Milpitas citywide informational “SFHA brochure” included this
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   message and posted on City website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Winter Storm Preparedness Utility Insert is posted on City of Palo Alto’s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Santa Clara “Inside Santa Clara” newsletter is posted on City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   website. DO NOT DUMP message is also on another City webpage.




       Message Topics: Outreach Projects (OP): Topic 1 – Know your flood hazard; Topic 2 – Insure your property for your flood hazard; Topic 3 – Protect people from the flood hazard; Topic 4 – Protect your property from the hazard; Topic 5 – Build responsibly; Topic 6 – Protect natural floodplain functions
                        Flood Response Preparations (FRP): Topic 7 – Develop a Family Emergency Plan; Topic 8 – Download disaster electronic Apps; Topic 9 – Understand shallow flooding risks – “Don’t drive through standing water.”
  2    CAL OP = Community At Large Outreach Projects; SFHA OP = Special Flood Hazard Area Communities Outreach Projects; TA OP = Target Audiences Outreach Project
  3    Each September, all deliverables need to be reported to District for tracking purposes.
  4
       A stakeholder can be any agency, organization, or person (other than the community itself) that supports the message. Stakeholders can be: an insurance company that publishes a brochures on flood insurance, even if it is set out at City Hall; a local newspaper that publishes a flood or hurricane season supplement each year; FEMA, if, for
       example, a FEMA brochure is used as an informational material; schools that implement outreach activities; a local newspaper; a neighborhood or civic association that sponsors and hosts a presentation by a community employee; a utility company that includes pertinent articles in its monthly bills; or presentations made by state or FEMA staff at a
       Risk Map meeting.
                                                                                                                                                                             20 of 27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ATTACHMENT NO. 1
                                                               Appendix A. The Multi-Jurisdictional PPI Worksheet for Santa Clara County - 2017 Annual Report Version (Year 2) Project Accomplishments


                                                                                                                             2015 PPI Plan
                                                1                                                                            2                                                                               3                      4                                                                            FY 2018
       Target                                       Message                               Outcome                            Project(s) Proposed to                                  Assignment                  Proposed               Stakeholder              CRS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Project Accomplishments
      Audience                                                                                                               Support the Messages                                                                Schedule                                     Community
                            Topics 3 & 5                                             Educate our              SFHA OP #3. “What to Do – Protect Your Family and                                             October -                                        All                   District’s annual FPM sent in January to 53,243 properties included
                            Message: Protect your family and property from           community on flood       Property from Flooding” message is sent each year to all                                      November                                                               message of protecting your family against floods.
                            flooding                                                 protection and           SFHA residents in the District’s annual FPM
                                                                                     preparedness                                                                                                                                                                                  City of Los Altos sent mailers to property owners in SFHAs in September
                                                                                     measures                                                                                                                                                                                      2017 and in February 2018, which included a letter and flood hazard
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   information brochure.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Milpitas citywide informational “SFHA brochure” included this
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   message.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Flood messages on Utility Insert are sent to City of Palo Alto residents every
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   year.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Santa Clara “Inside Santa Clara” newsletter includes message about
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   protecting property and family.

Special Flood                                                                        Reduce number of         SFHA OP #4. Post Floodplain Mailer on website (Element 352                                    Year-Round                                                             FPM posted on District’s website.
                                                                                     claims                   WEB1 and 2)
Hazard Area                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        City of Los Altos has posted the SFHA mailer and brochure on the City
(SFHA)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             website.
Communities                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        City of Milpitas citywide informational “SFHA brochure” included this
The PPI Committee
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   message.
identified several
geographic areas that are
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Utility Bill Insert is posted on City of Palo Alto’s Flood Information/Winter
particularly prone to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Preparedness website.
flooding.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Santa Clara “Inside Santa Clara” newsletter is posted on City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   website.

                                                                                                              SFHA OP #5. Maintain the ALERTSCC System                           District Communications    Year-Round           County of Santa Clara       All                   ALERTSCC emergency notification system is maintained by Santa Clara
                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Palo Alto CRS      peaks time                                                             County. District advertised the resource in our annual FPM and is also on
                                                                                                                                                                                 Coordinator                October - April                                                        our website: https://www.valleywater.org/flooding-safety/flood-
                                                                                                                                                                                 Cities CRS Coordinators                                                                           protection-resources/sign-up-for-emergency-alerts.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Posted on City of Milpitas Fire Department Office of Emergency Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   webpage.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Information on Alert SCC and real time creek water surface elevation is
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   posted on City of Palo Alto Utility Bill Insert.

                                                                                     Keep families safe       SFHA OP #6. ALERT System – Post real-time gauge                                                                                                                      All Alert System Real Time Data is available on the District website.
                                                                                                              information on website so users can see current water levels,                                                                                                        https://www.valleywater.org/floodready The District’s Alert System
                                                                                                              and where available, flood height predictions (Element 352                                                                                                           (gauge monitoring site) was maintained and updated to produce a mobile
                                                                                                              WEB3)                                                                                                                                                                friendly site.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Milpitas citywide informational “SFHA brochure” included this
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   message and is posted on their website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Morgan Hill’s Flood Information webpage includes a link to the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   District’s website with ALERT System Real-Time Data.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Information on real time creek water surface elevation is posted on City of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Palo Alto website.

                                                                                                              SFHA OP #7. Post cards sent to floodplain residents; this is in    City of San José           Need dates from      FEMA                        City of San José      Cities of Sunnyvale send postcards to residents to floodplain residents.
                                                                                                              addition to the District’s Annual FPM. City of Sunnyvale sends                                communities          Lenders                     City of Sunnyvale

       Message Topics: Outreach Projects (OP): Topic 1 – Know your flood hazard; Topic 2 – Insure your property for your flood hazard; Topic 3 – Protect people from the flood hazard; Topic 4 – Protect your property from the hazard; Topic 5 – Build responsibly; Topic 6 – Protect natural floodplain functions
                        Flood Response Preparations (FRP): Topic 7 – Develop a Family Emergency Plan; Topic 8 – Download disaster electronic Apps; Topic 9 – Understand shallow flooding risks – “Don’t drive through standing water.”
  2    CAL OP = Community At Large Outreach Projects; SFHA OP = Special Flood Hazard Area Communities Outreach Projects; TA OP = Target Audiences Outreach Project
  3    Each September, all deliverables need to be reported to District for tracking purposes.
  4
       A stakeholder can be any agency, organization, or person (other than the community itself) that supports the message. Stakeholders can be: an insurance company that publishes a brochures on flood insurance, even if it is set out at City Hall; a local newspaper that publishes a flood or hurricane season supplement each year; FEMA, if, for
       example, a FEMA brochure is used as an informational material; schools that implement outreach activities; a local newspaper; a neighborhood or civic association that sponsors and hosts a presentation by a community employee; a utility company that includes pertinent articles in its monthly bills; or presentations made by state or FEMA staff at a
       Risk Map meeting.
                                                                                                                                                                                21 of 27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ATTACHMENT NO. 1
                                                             Appendix A. The Multi-Jurisdictional PPI Worksheet for Santa Clara County - 2017 Annual Report Version (Year 2) Project Accomplishments


                                                                                                                           2015 PPI Plan
                                              1                                                                            2                                                                               3                      4                                                                           FY 2018
     Target                                       Message                               Outcome                            Project(s) Proposed to                                 Assignment                   Proposed               Stakeholder              CRS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Project Accomplishments
    Audience                                                                                                               Support the Messages                                                                Schedule                                     Community
                                                                                                            out postcards annually that includes a link to flood insurance    City of Sunnyvale CRS                            Real Estate Brokers         City of Gilroy        City of Milpitas citywide informational “SFHA brochure” included this
                                                                                                            agent referrals.                                                  Coordinator                                      Silicon Valley Realtors     County of Santa       message.
                                                                                                                                                                              City of Gilroy                                   Association                 Clara
                                                                                                                                                                              County of Santa Clara

                                                                                                            SFHA OP #8. Post postcards on website (Element 352 WEB1           City of Sunnyvale CRS                                                        Sunnyvale             City of Sunnyvale posted on their website.
                                                                                                            and 2)                                                            Coordinator
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Milpitas citywide residential newsletter “Connected” editions in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 November 2017 and May 2018 with “be prepared; buy flood insurance”
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 messages are posted on City website. In June 2018, City of Milpitas mailed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 out citywide informational “SFHA brochure” (to all residences and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 businesses) that also included this message and is posted to the City’s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 website.

                                                                                                            SFHA OP# 9. City of Sunnyvale sends out postcards annually        Sunnyvale CRS                                                                Sunnyvale             City of Sunnyvale sent out a postcard that offers flood protection
                                                                                                            that offers flood protection assistance site visits.              Coordinator                                                                                        assistance site visits.

                                                                                                            SFHA OP #10. Post postcards that offers flood protection                                                                                                             Message was posted on City of Sunnyvale’s website.
                                                                                                            assistance site visits on website (Element 352 WEB1 and 2)
                                                                                                            SHA OP #11. Inserts into District’s School Outreach Program       District Communications     Year-Round           Schools                     All                   Several of the District School Outreach Program (Water Education
                                                                                                            material                                                                                                           Students/Parents                                  Outreach) materials are made available at various preparedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 fairs/events. Additionally, there will be a focus in FY18 to partner with the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 District’s Outreach Program to promote emergency/flood preparedness.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 An “Are You Flood Ready” coloring contest was successfully launched
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 throughout several elementary schools in the county.

                                                                                                            SFHA OP #12. Post School Outreach Program materials on            District Communications     Year-Round                                       All                   The District’s Water Education Outreach Program materials are posted on
                                                                                                            website (Element 352 WEB1)                                                                                                                                           our website at: https://www.valleywater.org/learning-center/for-teachers-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 students

                          Topics 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, & 9                       Increase in the          SFHA OP #13. “Do You Need Flood Insurance” message is             District Communications     October/             Lenders                     All                   District’s annual FPM sent in January 2017 which includes message of flood
                          Message: Know your flood risk and be prepared; buy       number of inquiries      sent each year to all SFHA residents in the District’s annual                                 November 2015        Real Estate Brokers                               insurance and the federal flood insurance program (Floodsmart.gov
                          flood insurance                                          for purchasing flood     FPM                                                                                                                Flood insurance                                   directing audience to FEMA’s NFIP website while Floodmart.gov is under
                                                                                   insurance                                                                                                                                   customers                                         redesign. https://www.valleywater.org/floodready/flood-insurance

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Los Altos annual mailer and brochure provide information regarding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Flood program and flood insurance requirements.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Milpitas citywide residential newsletter “Connected” editions in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 November 2017 and May 2018 mailed with “be prepared; buy flood
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 insurance” messages. In June 2018, City of Milpitas mailed out citywide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 informational “SFHA brochure” (to all residences and businesses) that
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 included these messages.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Aside from Water District sending messages, City of Palo Alto also sends
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 letters to lenders and real estate brokers every year and “Do you need
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 flood insurance message” is included in the City’s Utility Bill Insert.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Santa Clara “Inside Santa Clara” newsletter includes the message
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 “Do you need flood insurance?” and is sent to all addresses in the City.

                          Topics 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 7                              Increase in number       SFHA OP #14. Post Floodplain Mailer on website (Element                                       Year-Round                                                             An electronic version of the FPM was posted on the District’s website
                          Message: Flood Insurance will cover damage from          of flood insurance       352 WEB1)                                                                                                                                                            under the Flood Protection Resources landing page.
                          flooding that most homeowner’s policies don’t’           policies in the SFHAs                                                                                                                                                                         http://apps2.valleywater.org/publication/flipbook/808_FloodMailer2017/
                          covers. Standard homeowner or commercial policies        and in the county in                                                                                                                                                                          mobile/index.html#p=1
                          will not cover damage to structures or contents          general
                          caused by natural flooding. Flood insurance is the

     Message Topics: Outreach Projects (OP): Topic 1 – Know your flood hazard; Topic 2 – Insure your property for your flood hazard; Topic 3 – Protect people from the flood hazard; Topic 4 – Protect your property from the hazard; Topic 5 – Build responsibly; Topic 6 – Protect natural floodplain functions
                      Flood Response Preparations (FRP): Topic 7 – Develop a Family Emergency Plan; Topic 8 – Download disaster electronic Apps; Topic 9 – Understand shallow flooding risks – “Don’t drive through standing water.”
2    CAL OP = Community At Large Outreach Projects; SFHA OP = Special Flood Hazard Area Communities Outreach Projects; TA OP = Target Audiences Outreach Project
3    Each September, all deliverables need to be reported to District for tracking purposes.
4
     A stakeholder can be any agency, organization, or person (other than the community itself) that supports the message. Stakeholders can be: an insurance company that publishes a brochures on flood insurance, even if it is set out at City Hall; a local newspaper that publishes a flood or hurricane season supplement each year; FEMA, if, for
     example, a FEMA brochure is used as an informational material; schools that implement outreach activities; a local newspaper; a neighborhood or civic association that sponsors and hosts a presentation by a community employee; a utility company that includes pertinent articles in its monthly bills; or presentations made by state or FEMA staff at a
     Risk Map meeting.
                                                                                                                                                                             22 of 27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ATTACHMENT NO. 1
                                                               Appendix A. The Multi-Jurisdictional PPI Worksheet for Santa Clara County - 2017 Annual Report Version (Year 2) Project Accomplishments


                                                                                                                             2015 PPI Plan
                                                1                                                                            2                                                                               3                      4                                                                            FY 2018
       Target                                       Message                               Outcome                            Project(s) Proposed to                                 Assignment                   Proposed               Stakeholder              CRS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Project Accomplishments
      Audience                                                                                                               Support the Messages                                                                Schedule                                     Community
                            only sure way to be reimbursed for some of your flood                                                                                                                                                                                                  City of Los Altos has posted the SFHA mailer and brochure on the City
                            loses                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Milpitas citywide informational “SFHA brochure” posted on their
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Palo Alto’s Utility Bill Insert includes all flood awareness messages
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   which is posted on City website. City’s Flood Information/Winter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Preparedness website has additional messages on flood awareness aside
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   from the Utility Bill Insert.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Santa Clara “Inside Santa Clara” newsletter is posted on City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   website.

Special Flood                                                                        Prospective buyers       SFHA OP #15. Mail out mailer(s) regarding flood insurance        City of Milpitas CRS         Fall                                             City of Milpitas      City of Los Altos sent mailers regarding flood insurance.
                                                                                     understand flood         and elevation certificates                                       Coordinator                                                                   City of Los Altos
Hazard Area                                                                          risks                                                                                     City of Los Altos CRS                                                                               City of Milpitas citywide informational “SFHA brochure” included this
(SFHA)                                                                                                                                                                         Coordinator                                                                                         message.
                                                                                                                                                                               Cities CRS Coordinators
Communities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Information on Insurance and elevation certificate mailed to residents
The PPI Committee
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   through City of Palo Alto’s Utility Bill Insert.
identified several
geographic areas that are
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Santa Clara “Inside Santa Clara” newsletter includes message on
particularly prone to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   flood insurance and elevation certificates.
flooding.
                                                                                                              SFHA OP #16. Post mailers on website (Element 352 WEB1)          City of Milpitas             Fall                                             City of Milpitas      City of Los Altos has posted the SFHA mailer and brochure on the City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Milpitas citywide informational “SFHA brochure” posted on City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Utility Bill Insert mailed is posted on City of Palo Alto’s Flood Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Santa Clara “Inside Santa Clara” newsletter is posted on City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   website.
                                                                                                              SFHA OP #17. Mailer (brochure published by insurance             City of Sunnyvale            Need dates from      Lenders, real estate        City of Sunnyvale     City of Sunnyvale and City of Palo Alto have one-page newsletter which is
                                                                                                              company) sent to all real estate agents and lenders (can be      City of San Jose             communities          agents or boards,           City of San Jose      sent to all real estate agents and set out for pick-up at City Hall.
                                                                                                              set out at City Hall) – requirement to purchase flood            City of Palo Alto                                 developers/contractors      City of Palo Alto
                                                                                                              insurance and discount.                                                                                            and appraisers;                                   City of Los Altos sends a one-page newsletter mailer to Lending Institutions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 organizations or                                  and Real Estate and Insurance Agents discussing the program, Flood
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 agencies that serve                               information and Elevation Certificate. City of Los Altos posts the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 communities at risk for                           newsletter to Lending Institutions and Real Estate and Insurance Agents in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 flooding include PG&E,                            the city website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 American Red Cross,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Community Emergency                               City of Santa Clara provided FEMA flood insurance brochures to the 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Response Teams (CERT),                            Santa Clara County Association of Realtors Convention and Expo. City of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 neighborhood                                      Santa Clara also provide FEMA flood insurance brochures, inside the Santa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 associations, schools,                            Clara newsletter to the Santa Clara County Association of Realtor seminar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 churches, hospitals and                           on flood insurance and elevation certificate.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 museums.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Milpitas makes available literature regarding this messaging at
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Public Counters at various satellite facilities.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Letter to lenders and real estate agents is mailed every year by the City of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Palo Alto.

       Message Topics: Outreach Projects (OP): Topic 1 – Know your flood hazard; Topic 2 – Insure your property for your flood hazard; Topic 3 – Protect people from the flood hazard; Topic 4 – Protect your property from the hazard; Topic 5 – Build responsibly; Topic 6 – Protect natural floodplain functions
                        Flood Response Preparations (FRP): Topic 7 – Develop a Family Emergency Plan; Topic 8 – Download disaster electronic Apps; Topic 9 – Understand shallow flooding risks – “Don’t drive through standing water.”
  2    CAL OP = Community At Large Outreach Projects; SFHA OP = Special Flood Hazard Area Communities Outreach Projects; TA OP = Target Audiences Outreach Project
  3    Each September, all deliverables need to be reported to District for tracking purposes.
  4
       A stakeholder can be any agency, organization, or person (other than the community itself) that supports the message. Stakeholders can be: an insurance company that publishes a brochures on flood insurance, even if it is set out at City Hall; a local newspaper that publishes a flood or hurricane season supplement each year; FEMA, if, for
       example, a FEMA brochure is used as an informational material; schools that implement outreach activities; a local newspaper; a neighborhood or civic association that sponsors and hosts a presentation by a community employee; a utility company that includes pertinent articles in its monthly bills; or presentations made by state or FEMA staff at a
       Risk Map meeting.
                                                                                                                                                                             23 of 27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ATTACHMENT NO. 1
                                                               Appendix A. The Multi-Jurisdictional PPI Worksheet for Santa Clara County - 2017 Annual Report Version (Year 2) Project Accomplishments


                                                                                                                             2015 PPI Plan
                                                1                                                                            2                                                                               3                      4                                                                            FY 2018
       Target                                       Message                               Outcome                            Project(s) Proposed to                                 Assignment                   Proposed               Stakeholder              CRS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Project Accomplishments
      Audience                                                                                                               Support the Messages                                                                Schedule                                     Community
                            Topic 1: Know your flood hazard                          Increase in the          SFHA OP #18. Presentation and training to realtors at            District Communications      October - April      Insurance companies         All                   Not applicable this fiscal year. Plan to work on next fiscal year.
                            Message: A FIRMette is a full-scale section of a FEMA    number of inquiries      Realtor’s Association Meetings and/or write-up in realty         City representatives                              Lenders
                            Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) that you create          from prospective         association newsletters                                          Alain Pinel Realtors                              Brokers
                            online. A FIRM indicates if property is in a Special     buyers asking about                                                                                                                         Alain Pinel Realtors and
                            Hazard Flood Area                                        the flood designation                                                                                                                       other realty companies
                                                                                     of property                                                                                                                                 Residents who access
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FEMA Map Service
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Center
                                                                                                              SFHA OP #19. Post training presentation on website               District Communications      Year-Round           Silicon Valley Realtors                           Not applicable this fiscal year.
                                                                                                              (Element 352 WEB1)                                               City representatives                              Association
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Milpitas’ citywide informational “SFHA brochure” posted on City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FEMA’s Map Service Center website is included in City of Santa Clara
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   “Inside Santa Clara” newsletter to all addresses in the City.
                                                                                                              SFHA OP #20. Publicize FEMA’s Flood Map Service Center           District Communications      Year-Round           FEMA                        All                   Publicized trough the District’s FPM sent to all parcels in the FEMA
                                                                                                              website                                                          City representatives                              Realtors                                          designated flood zone. Additionally posted on district’s flood safety tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Lenders                                           website: https://www.valleywater.org/floodready/is-your-home-in-a-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Brokers                                           flood-zone
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Residents who access
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FEMA Map Service                                  City of Gilroy posts Floodplain Management Study.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Center
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   The FEMA Flood Map Service Center web link is posted on the City of Los
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Altos website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Milpitas’ citywide informational “SFHA brochure” posted on City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Morgan Hill has a link to FEMA’s Flood Map Service Center in the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City’s Flood Information webpage.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FEMA’s Flood Map Center is posted on City of Palo Alto’s Flood Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Santa Clara “Inside Santa Clara” newsletter is posted on City website.

Special Flood                                                                                                 SFHA OP #21. Post link to FEMAs Flood Map Service Center                                                                                                             Posted on the District’s website; the FP Resources landing page has a
                                                                                                              on website (https://msc.fema.gov/portal) (Element 352                                                                                                                designated icon directing audience to FEMA’s Flood Map Service Center.
Hazard Area                                                                                                   WEB1)                                                                                                                                                                https://www.valleywater.org/floodready/is-your-home-in-a-flood-zone
(SFHA)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   The FEMA Flood Map Service Center web link is posted on the City of Los
Communities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Altos website.
The PPI Committee
identified several
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Milpitas posts their “SFHA brochure” on website.
geographic areas that are
particularly prone to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Morgan Hill has a link to FEMA’s Flood Map Service Center in the
flooding.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City’s Flood Information webpage.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Mountain View does not have any repetitive loss properties.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Link to FEMA’s Flood Map Center is provided on City of Palo Alto’s Flood
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Information website.

                            Topics 3, 4, & 5                                         Increase in inquires     SFHA OP #22. Annual letters mailed to repetitive loss            City of San Jose                                  Real Estate Agencies        City of San Jose      City of Sunnyvale sent letters to repetitive loss parcels as required by
                            Message: Retrofit or elevate your home/building to       on retrofitting          properties and real estate agencies. The District FPM also       City of Palo Alto                                                             City of Palo Alto     FEMA.
                            reduce future flood damage. Contact your local           measures. Decrease       includes a message regarding repairs or improvements             City of Sunnyvale                                                             City of Sunnyvale
                            planning department to determine what steps should       the number of            greater than 50 percent of a structure’s value need to meet      City of Morgan Hill                                                           City of Morgan Hill   City of Los Altos does not have any repetitive loss properties.
                            be taken to protect your property. Contact Public        repairs and
       Message Topics: Outreach Projects (OP): Topic 1 – Know your flood hazard; Topic 2 – Insure your property for your flood hazard; Topic 3 – Protect people from the flood hazard; Topic 4 – Protect your property from the hazard; Topic 5 – Build responsibly; Topic 6 – Protect natural floodplain functions
                        Flood Response Preparations (FRP): Topic 7 – Develop a Family Emergency Plan; Topic 8 – Download disaster electronic Apps; Topic 9 – Understand shallow flooding risks – “Don’t drive through standing water.”
  2    CAL OP = Community At Large Outreach Projects; SFHA OP = Special Flood Hazard Area Communities Outreach Projects; TA OP = Target Audiences Outreach Project
  3    Each September, all deliverables need to be reported to District for tracking purposes.
  4
       A stakeholder can be any agency, organization, or person (other than the community itself) that supports the message. Stakeholders can be: an insurance company that publishes a brochures on flood insurance, even if it is set out at City Hall; a local newspaper that publishes a flood or hurricane season supplement each year; FEMA, if, for
       example, a FEMA brochure is used as an informational material; schools that implement outreach activities; a local newspaper; a neighborhood or civic association that sponsors and hosts a presentation by a community employee; a utility company that includes pertinent articles in its monthly bills; or presentations made by state or FEMA staff at a
       Risk Map meeting.
                                                                                                                                                                             24 of 27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ATTACHMENT NO. 1
                                                                Appendix A. The Multi-Jurisdictional PPI Worksheet for Santa Clara County - 2017 Annual Report Version (Year 2) Project Accomplishments


                                                                                                                             2015 PPI Plan
                                                1                                                                            2                                                                               3                      4                                                                            FY 2018
       Target                                       Message                               Outcome                            Project(s) Proposed to                                 Assignment                   Proposed               Stakeholder              CRS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Project Accomplishments
      Audience                                                                                                               Support the Messages                                                                Schedule                                     Community
                            Works CRS Coordinator to find out if grant assistance     elevations without       NFIP requirements and the message that special permits are                                                                                                          City of Mountain View does not have any repetitive loss properties.
                            is available                                              permits. Increase        required.
                                                                                      number of repairs                                                                                                                                                                            City of Morgan Hill sent letters to repetitive loss parcels as required by
                                                                                      with permits                                                                                                                                                                                 FEMA.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Annual letters are mailed by the City of Palo Alto to repetitive properties
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   and real estate agencies.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   City of Santa Clara does not have repetitive loss properties.
                                                                                      Increase number of
                                                                                      elevation certificates
                                                                                      on file, and
                                                                                      structures repaired
                                                                                      with permits;
                                                                                      decrease the number
                                                                                      of repetitive loss
                                                                                      increase homes

Messengers to               Topics 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, & 9                        Educate our              TA OP #1. Have American Red Cross include the topic of flood    American Red Cross           Year-Round           American Red Cross          All                   Not applicable this fiscal year. Due to limited resources at the Red Cross,
                            Message: Know your flood risk and be prepared; buy        community on flood       protection in their presentations. Have engineers                                                                 Neighborhood                                      they are unable to commit resources to assist in this proposed project at
Other Target                flood insurance                                           protection and           accompany American Red Cross to community meetings                                                                Associations                                      this time.
Audiences (TA)                                                                        preparedness             (2/city/year)                                                                                                     Service Clubs (e.g.
Lenders, real estate                                                                  measures                                                                                                                                   Notary, Kiwanas, etc.)
agencies or boards,                                                                                                                                                                                                              Chamber of Commerce
developers/contractors                                                                                                                                                                                                           Silicon Valley Realtors
and appraisers all serve                                                                                                                                                                                                         Association
as a messenger to people                                                                                                                                                                                                         American Red Cross
who are at risk of                                                                                                                                                                                                               Neighborhood
flooding as they provide                                                                                                                                                                                                         Associations
their respective business                                                                                                                                                                                                        Service Clubs (e.g.
service. In addition,                                                                                                                                                                                                            Notary, Kiwanas, etc.)
organizations or agencies                                                                                                                                                                                                        Chamber of Commerce
that serve communities                                                                                                                                                                                                           Silicon Valley Realtors
at risk for flooding                                                                                                                                                                                                             Association
include PG&E, the
American Red Cross, and     Topic 2: Insure your property for your flood hazard       Increase the number      TA OP #2. Post presentations on website (Element 352            All                                                                           All                   Not applicable this fiscal year.
Community Emergency         Message: Standard homeowner or commercial                 of real estate agents    WEB1)                                                           City of Sunnyvale                                                             City of Sunnyvale
Response Teams (CERT),      policies will not cover damage to structures or           who will advise their                                                                    City of San Jose                                                              City of San Jose      District has template available for any city to use.
neighborhood                contents caused by natural flooding. Flood insurance      clients that they are                                                                    City of Palo Alto                                                             City of Palo Alto
associations, schools,      is the only sure way to be reimbursed for some of         interested in a home                                                                                                                                                                         Presentation of flood awareness during earth day is provided on City of
churches, hospitals and     your flood loses. A discount on your flood insurance      that’s in a floodplain                                                                                                                                                                       Palo Alto’s Flood Information website.
museums.                    premium is available. Flood insurance is also available   area
                            for renters and commercial properties. There is a
                            mandatory 30-day waiting period for flood insurance
                            to become effective

                            Message: A discount is available. Flood insurance is                               TA OP #3. Annual mailer targeted towards real estate agents     City of Sunnyvale CRS        Late Summer/                                     City of Sunnyvale     City of Sunnyvale and City of Palo Alto have one-page newsletter which is
                            also available for renters and commercial properties.                              and lenders with this message                                   Coordinator                  Fall                                             City of San Jose      sent to all real estate agents and set out for pick-up at City Hall.
                            There is a mandatory 30-day waiting period for flood                                                                                               City of San Jose CRS                                                          All
                            insurance to become effective                                                                                                                      Coordinators                                                                                        City of Los Altos sends a one-page newsletter mailer to Lending Institutions
                                                                                                                                                                               Cities CRS Coordinators                                                                             and Real Estate and Insurance Agents discussing the program, Flood
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   information and Elevation Certificate. City of Los Altos posts the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   newsletter to Lending Institutions and Real Estate and Insurance Agents in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   the city website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Annual letters regarding flood insurance is sent to lenders and real estate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   agents every year by the City of Palo Alto.

       Message Topics: Outreach Projects (OP): Topic 1 – Know your flood hazard; Topic 2 – Insure your property for your flood hazard; Topic 3 – Protect people from the flood hazard; Topic 4 – Protect your property from the hazard; Topic 5 – Build responsibly; Topic 6 – Protect natural floodplain functions
                        Flood Response Preparations (FRP): Topic 7 – Develop a Family Emergency Plan; Topic 8 – Download disaster electronic Apps; Topic 9 – Understand shallow flooding risks – “Don’t drive through standing water.”
  2    CAL OP = Community At Large Outreach Projects; SFHA OP = Special Flood Hazard Area Communities Outreach Projects; TA OP = Target Audiences Outreach Project
  3    Each September, all deliverables need to be reported to District for tracking purposes.
  4
       A stakeholder can be any agency, organization, or person (other than the community itself) that supports the message. Stakeholders can be: an insurance company that publishes a brochures on flood insurance, even if it is set out at City Hall; a local newspaper that publishes a flood or hurricane season supplement each year; FEMA, if, for
       example, a FEMA brochure is used as an informational material; schools that implement outreach activities; a local newspaper; a neighborhood or civic association that sponsors and hosts a presentation by a community employee; a utility company that includes pertinent articles in its monthly bills; or presentations made by state or FEMA staff at a
       Risk Map meeting.
                                                                                                                                                                              25 of 27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ATTACHMENT NO. 1
                                                             Appendix A. The Multi-Jurisdictional PPI Worksheet for Santa Clara County - 2017 Annual Report Version (Year 2) Project Accomplishments


                                                                                                                           2015 PPI Plan
                                              1                                                                            2                                                                               3                      4                                                                            FY 2018
     Target                                       Message                               Outcome                            Project(s) Proposed to                                  Assignment                  Proposed               Stakeholder              CRS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Project Accomplishments
    Audience                                                                                                               Support the Messages                                                                Schedule                                     Community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Santa Clara provided 3 flood insurance pamphlets for real estate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 professionals to County of Santa Clara Realtor Convention in October 2017.

                                                                                                            TA OP #4. Post annual mailer targeted towards real estate                                                                                                            Posted on city websites.
                                                                                                            agents and lenders on website (Element 352 WEB1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Annual letters mailed to lenders and real estate agents is posted on City of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Palo Alto’s Flood Information website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3 flood insurance pamphlets posted on City of Santa Clara’s website.




                          Topics 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, & 9                       Improve SFHA             TA OP #5. Include flood protection and preparedness                All                                                                         All                   Starting in September, the District began including flood safety information
                          Message: Know your flood risk and be prepared; buy       disclosure during real   messages in newsletters of organizations or agencies that          City of Sunnyvale                                                           City of Sunnyvale     in its monthly newsletter through March. The newsletter reached over
                          flood insurance                                          estate process           serve communities at risk for flooding; District and City staff    City of San Jose                                                            City of San Jose      29,000 residents county-wide and was shared on the web and District’s
                                                                                                            would draft messages for insertion into newsletters                City of Palo Alto                                                           City of Palo Alto     social media sites monthly.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 The City of Los Altos weekly newsletter email included 20 issues with content
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 on flood information, insurance, and/or emergency preparations.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City of Milpitas utility bill messaging during November – December 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 billing period (not an insert).

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Utility bill inserts. See CAL OP #1 and #2.

                                                                                   Increase in number       TA OP #6. Post newsletters on websites (Element 352 WEB1)                                                                                                            All monthly newsletters posted on District’s website at
                                                                                   of policies in the                                                                                                                                                                            http://www.valleywater.org/Newsletters.aspx
                                                                                   SFHAs and in the
                                                                                   county in general                                                                                                                                                                             The City of Los Altos weekly newsletter email included 20 issues with content
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 on flood information, insurance, and/or emergency preparations. The email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 newsletter is also posted on the City website.


                                                                                                            TA OP#7. Countywide mailer to all residents – language on          District Communications                                                     All                   District sends FPM to all residents in FEMA designated flood zone.
                                                                                                            purchasing flood insurance                                                                                                                                           Additionally, the District sends out a CWM that also contains this
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 messaging (sent November 2017).




     Message Topics: Outreach Projects (OP): Topic 1 – Know your flood hazard; Topic 2 – Insure your property for your flood hazard; Topic 3 – Protect people from the flood hazard; Topic 4 – Protect your property from the hazard; Topic 5 – Build responsibly; Topic 6 – Protect natural floodplain functions
                      Flood Response Preparations (FRP): Topic 7 – Develop a Family Emergency Plan; Topic 8 – Download disaster electronic Apps; Topic 9 – Understand shallow flooding risks – “Don’t drive through standing water.”
2    CAL OP = Community At Large Outreach Projects; SFHA OP = Special Flood Hazard Area Communities Outreach Projects; TA OP = Target Audiences Outreach Project
3    Each September, all deliverables need to be reported to District for tracking purposes.
4
     A stakeholder can be any agency, organization, or person (other than the community itself) that supports the message. Stakeholders can be: an insurance company that publishes a brochures on flood insurance, even if it is set out at City Hall; a local newspaper that publishes a flood or hurricane season supplement each year; FEMA, if, for
     example, a FEMA brochure is used as an informational material; schools that implement outreach activities; a local newspaper; a neighborhood or civic association that sponsors and hosts a presentation by a community employee; a utility company that includes pertinent articles in its monthly bills; or presentations made by state or FEMA staff at a
     Risk Map meeting.
                                                                                                                                                                              26 of 27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ATTACHMENT NO. 1
                                                             Appendix A. The Multi-Jurisdictional PPI Worksheet for Santa Clara County - 2017 Annual Report Version (Year 2) Project Accomplishments


                                                                                                                           2015 PPI Plan
                                              1                                                                            2                                                                               3                      4                                                                           FY 2018
     Target                                       Message                               Outcome                            Project(s) Proposed to                                 Assignment                   Proposed               Stakeholder              CRS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Project Accomplishments
    Audience                                                                                                               Support the Messages                                                                Schedule                                     Community
                                                                                   Educate our              TA OP# 8. Speaker’s Bureau of staff from CRS Communities to      City representatives         October-April                                    All                   The below-listed organizations (11) were reached by the District's Speakers
                                                                                   community on flood       talk at events organized by various community groups. The        Community                                                                                           Bureau Program in FY18. All general presentations include slides on the
                                                                                   protection and           goal is for each CRS Community to speak at a minimum of 2        Organizations                                                                                       topic of flood protection, including CRS, ALERT system, flood insurance, and
                                                                                   preparedness             events per year or more.                                                                                                                                             District’s ongoing flood protection projects.
                                                                                   measures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1)  August 1, 2017: Kiwanis Club of Morgan Hill
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2)  August 30, 2017: Morgan Hill Rotary Club
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3)  September 8, 2017: Leadership Gilroy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4)  October 7, 2017: Los Paseos Neighborhood Association (San Jose)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5)  January 9, 2018: Sons in Retirement (SIRS) at Villages Golf & Country
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Club (San Jose)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6) March 14, 2018: Alma and Goodyear Mastic Neighborhood
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Associations (San Jose)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7) March 29, 2018: In-Home Supportive Services all staff mtg. (County-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     wide)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8) April 18, 2018: HGST Earth Day celebration (San Jose)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9) April 30, 2018: Bellarmine Environmental Club (San Jose)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 10) May 3, 2018: SPUR-Flood Awareness & Prevention (San Jose)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 11) May 15, 2018: Mid-Peninsula Widows and Widowers Association (Los
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Altos)
                                                                                                            TA OP#9. Post Speaker’s Bureau presentation on website                                                                                                               The District does not post the PowerPoint Presentations on our website,
                                                                                                            and/or share on social media.                                                                                                                                        nor is it posted on social media. However, if an organization requests an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 electronic/hard copy, it is provided.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Information on the District’s Speakers Bureau Program is available on our
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 website: https://www.valleywater.org/learning-center/lets-talk-water-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 speakers-bureau


References
1. Washington Multi-Jurisdictional PPI
2. Snohomish County, City of Monroe, City of Sultan Multi-Jurisdictional Program for Public Information 2013
3. Flood Futures Report
4.




     Message Topics: Outreach Projects (OP): Topic 1 – Know your flood hazard; Topic 2 – Insure your property for your flood hazard; Topic 3 – Protect people from the flood hazard; Topic 4 – Protect your property from the hazard; Topic 5 – Build responsibly; Topic 6 – Protect natural floodplain functions
                      Flood Response Preparations (FRP): Topic 7 – Develop a Family Emergency Plan; Topic 8 – Download disaster electronic Apps; Topic 9 – Understand shallow flooding risks – “Don’t drive through standing water.”
2    CAL OP = Community At Large Outreach Projects; SFHA OP = Special Flood Hazard Area Communities Outreach Projects; TA OP = Target Audiences Outreach Project
3    Each September, all deliverables need to be reported to District for tracking purposes.
4
     A stakeholder can be any agency, organization, or person (other than the community itself) that supports the message. Stakeholders can be: an insurance company that publishes a brochures on flood insurance, even if it is set out at City Hall; a local newspaper that publishes a flood or hurricane season supplement each year; FEMA, if, for
     example, a FEMA brochure is used as an informational material; schools that implement outreach activities; a local newspaper; a neighborhood or civic association that sponsors and hosts a presentation by a community employee; a utility company that includes pertinent articles in its monthly bills; or presentations made by state or FEMA staff at a
     Risk Map meeting.
                                                                                                                                                                           27 of 27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ATTACHMENT NO. 1
                                                  Agenda
                                    Santa Clara County CRS Users Group
                                  Tuesday, May 22, 20181 2:00 ~ 4:00 p.m.
            Santa Clara Valley Water District I Administration Building, Conference Room B-108
                               5750 Almaden Expressway, San Jose, CA 95118
       Directions at: https://www.valleywoter.org/directions-santq-clara-valley-water-district-offices

Purpose:      PPI Stakeholder Committee Annual Evaluation Meeting per Activity 330, Outreac.h Project,
              Element 332:c. Program for Public Information, Step 7 requirement (see page 2 of this agenda)

Desired Outcome:       Gather communities' input on how the PPI worked over the last year: plan and
                       choose/confirm PPI messages

1.    Introductions (~e sure to sign-,ln)                                                                (All)
          a. Interested parties request to participate
2.    2017-2018 Flootj Preparedness Fairs                                                             (All)
         a. Outreach promotional items
             1. Office of Emergency
                           .
                                     Services District's Storm Ready Application
                                                                              .
            2. District Education Outreach "Are You Rood Ready?" coloring contest
3.    2017 CRS Users Group Survey                                                         (Maria Angeles)
4.    June 2018 NFIP Workshops presented by DWR sponsored by District                        (Merna Leal)

             6/27 /18 - Floodplain Management dnd Duties of the Local Administrator
             6/28/18 - FEMA Elevation Certificate

      To register or get more information, go to:
      https;llwww.ev§ntbrite.com/o/gwr-floodplain-mtmagement-assistgn~e-17 l 2§~99424
5.   Participation Requests                                                          (Merna Leal)
        a. July 9, 20.18 CRS Users Group Meeting - Facilitator needed
        b. September 7, 2018 FMA Conference - Panelist needed (CRS User Grol,.Jp Conference
             Workshop)                                                                     ,.

6.    Egnyte - Repository Shared File System                             (Merna Leal & Kathryn Demeter)
         a. Benefit~ of using _the system
         b. Restructured files to mirror CRS Coordinator's Manual
         C. Brief navigation demonstration
         d. Who else needs access?
7.
      PPI Monitor:& Annual Evaluation for Annual Evaluation Report for FYl 8 (Year 3)                 (All)
          a. Using Annual Evaluation FY 17 (Year 2), Appendix A Table, populate FY 18 data
          b. District will update report and send to communities via Egnyte for review/input
8.    Adjourn
       Questions, please contact Kathryn Demeter at (408) 630-2695 or kdemeter@valleywater.org

                  The call-in number and the passcode are in the Outlook meeting invite

                 Next Meeting Purpose: Finalize PPI Annual Evaluation Report for FY18{Year 3}
                 Must be completed before August 1, 2018 (annual recertificaHon due date)

     Mark Your Calendars -Monday, July 9, 20181 District Offices, Administration B-1081 2:00- 4:00 p.m.


                                                                                     ATTACHMENT NO. 2
(Excerpt noted below from 2017 CRS Coordinator's Manual}



     Step i': Implement, monitor, and evaluate the program. The Program for Pub]ic
        lnforrnatwn cori!'lril ittee meets a~ least annually to a1.10ni1or the impl~meri1iati,:M1· of lhe
        outreach projec1s. The comrll1illee assesses whether the desfred outcomes were achieved
        and what, if anything, should be chang~d. This work is described in an evaluation report
        t hat is prapared each year~ sent to the ,sovernin,g body, and "indud~d in the annual
        recertificaticm.                          ·

        The c.ommunity must update its Program fur Pubiic Information at ie.ast every five years.
        This can be a new document or an addendum io th,e ,e xisting document that updates the
        needs assessment and all s:ect3ons that should be ·ch.anged based ,o n evaluati-ons of the
        projects .
~i:lllli1. \..,lafi:l V   a.u~y water LJlSil"lCt           Page 1 of 1




        1'Jtrm.,_:.



          CAo.d~
          ~;.




                                                   ATTACHMENT NO. 3

 https://scvwd.egnyte.com/app/index.do                        7/9/2018
                                                      Agenda
                                      Santa Clara County CRS Users Group
                                   Monday, July 9, 20181 2:00-4:00 p.m.
            Santa Clara Valley Water District I Administration Building, Conference Room B-108
                               5750 Almaden Expressway, San Jose, CA 95118 __
       Directions at: https://www.valleywate r.org/directions-santa-data-vafley-wate r-district..offices

Purpo1e: · PPI Stakeholder Committee Annual Evaluation Meeting per Activity 330; Outreach Project,
                Element 332.c'. Program. for Public Information, Step 7 requirement (see page 2 of this agenda) .

 pe,lred Outcome: Gather communities' input on how the PPI worked over the last year; plqn and
                      · choose/confirm PPI messages

1.   Introductions (be sure to sign-In)                                                                      (All)
                                                     .
2 .. September 7, 20 l8 FMA Conference                                _           . (Merna Leal)
        CRS User Group Conference Workshop- Panelist representing SC County CRS Users.Group;
                                           CSG, Consultants Inc. Frank Navarro/ Babak Kaderi

3. . Recap Jone 2018 NFIP Workshops presented by DWR & sponsored by SCVWD                           (Merna Leal)
         a. 6/27/18 - Floodplain Management .& Duties of the Local Administrator
         b. 6/28/18 - FEMA Elevation Certificate
4.   Plans for 2018-2019 District Rood Awareness Campaign                                         (Gina Adriano)
         a. Floodplain Mai/et {FPMJ Language Revqmp
             - Confirm cities' phone numbers
           -. Muffl-llngual mailer
           -   Abbreviated text
         b. Targeted Outreach
      •,   -   Cities' recommendea vulnerable neighborhoods/"hotspots?".

5.   Roster updat~. including contract information for the 2018 Floodplain Mailer                  (Merna Leal)
                                                                                                       ·•



6.   PPI Monitor & Annual Evaluation for Ann,ual Evaluation Report for FYl 8 (Year 3)                       (All)
         a. Finalize PPI Annuol Evaluation Report for fYl 8 (Year 3)
       _ b.· Mustbe
              .
                     ·eompleted prior 8/1/18 ·(annual
                                                 .    recertification. due dote)
                            .   .                                                     . ..

7.   ·Adjourn

        if you have questions,.please contact Merna Leal at (408) 630-2610 or mleai@vaHeywater.org

                   The eaH:-ifl_number is 1-~57-6511 and the Participant C()de is 9074000
                                         Next Meeting Date / Purpose: TBD




                                                                                             ATTACHMENT NO. 4
(Excerpt noted below from 2017 CRS Coordinator's Manual)



    Step 7: Implement. mo • _r, and evaluate i•e pro1ram. The Program fot Pub· ic
       Information committe~ meets fit least annual•y to inonitor the impJementation o:f the
       outreach projects. The commiu~e assesses whether the desired o·atcomes were achieved
       and what, if anything. should ibe changed. Thi$ work is described i~·an evaluation repon
       that is prepared each ),ltar, sent to the govem'ing_body, and inc!udetJ in the annuaO
       recertmcati 0111.
        The comm ni y must update its Program for Public lnformahon at east evef)• fi_ve ~ars_
                     a
        This can be ne,,, docume.tu or an adde~dum to the existing document that ~es ei
        ~eeds assessment artd .a11 ·s~t ·ons t at should be changed based on evaluations ofdt
        projects.
                    Santa Clara Cou11ty CRS User's Group Meeting
                                            July 9, 2018 (Monday)
                                    SCVWD Administration Building, Room B-108 ·
                                                    2:30 - 4:00 p.m.
                                                    Sign-In Sheet
                                                                       Committee Member
            Communlty Name
                                                       Agency                                 Signature
 1    Campbell, City of                                    Not a CRS Participating Community
 2·   Cupertino, City of            Chad Mosely
                                    Winnie Pagan
 3    Gilroy, City of               Jorge Duran
                                    Weston Hill
                                    Babak Kaderi, CSG Consultants, Inc.
 4    Los Altos Hilts, Town of                             Not a CRS Participating COIJM'i'?Unlty
 5    Los Altos, City of             Frank Navar_ro, CSG Consultants,
                                     Inc. /re, kit- J<.. t-f--~ .
 6    Los Gatos, Town of
 7    Milpitas, City of              Leslie Stobbe
 a·   Monte Sereno, City of
9. Morgan Hill, City of              Maria Angeles
10 IV!ouotain View, City of .
11 ·Palo Alto, City of               Rajeev Hada
12 San Jose, City of                Arlene Lew
13 Santa Clara County                Chris Frietas .
14 Santa Clara; City of              Evelyn.Liang
15 Saratoga., City of
 16 Sunnyvale, City of              Jennifer Ng
·17 Santa Clara Vall~y Water          Mern~ Leal
      District                      · Gina Adriano
      Other Interested Parties ·
      c/-1, ~ C«.S-t 111/() A Ht> '3:>A11i el -8~rv1A1'1~·"1



B     Participation by conference
      call


                                                                                          ATTACHMENT NO. 5
