     CITY OF PALO ALTO OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK

                                                                   June 18, 2018
The Honorable City Council
Palo Alto, California

General Municipal Election on November 6, 2018 Informational
Report Regarding Schedules, Fees and Length of Candidate Statements
RECOMMENDATIONS
This is an informational report. The City Clerk is required to bring to your
attention various options regarding fees and length of candidates'
statements.

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

1.    Filing Fee
      Pursuant to Palo Alto Municipal Code Section 2.40.030, Filing of
      nomination petitions,      "Any person otherwise qualified may be a
      candidate for an elective office at any election, regular or special, by
      filing with the clerk within the time prescribed in the Elections Code of
      California a petition signed by at least twenty-five qualified and
      registered voters. Any duly established candidacy filing fee shall be
      waived for each candidate who files a petition signed by at least four
      qualified or registered voters for each dollar of such filing fee."

      Palo Alto charges a fee of $25 for filing nomination papers. If a
      candidate wishes to waive the filing fee, the nomination petition would
      require 100 qualified registered voters' signatures.

2.    Charges for Candidates' Statements
      California Elections Code Section 13307 provides that before the
      General Municipal Election nomination period opens, the City Council
      shall determine whether a charge is to be levied for printing and
      mailing candidates' statements in the sample ballot. The Santa Clara
      County Registrar of Voters has indicated that for this November
      General Municipal Election, the cost for a candidates' statement of 200
      words is estimated to be $2,100.

      California Elections Code Section 13307 also permits the City Council
      to increase the number of words allowed in a candidate's statement
      from 200 to 400. The estimated cost for the candidate statement
      would then increase to $3,048.
FISCAL IMPACT

As in past practice, unless a Council Member agendizes any of these items
by June 22, 2018, the City Clerk's Office will charge no fee for candidates'
statements of up to 200 words for the 2018 General Municipal Election and
the City will absorb the cost.

ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT

None.


ATTACHMENTS:
   Attachment A: 2018 Elections Deadlines (DOCX)

Department Head: Beth Minor, City Clerk




                                                                      Page 2
                                                                                               June 2018

                                      CITY OF PALO ALTO

                           GENERAL ELECTION CALENDAR

                              TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2018

                   TO BE CONSOLIDATED WITH GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION

This election calendar has been prepared to assist persons interested in running for the 3 vacant seats on
the council, for the General Election to be held November 6, 2018. It is not intended to be a complete
statement of the law governing elections. Those participating in campaigns should be advised that the
law on elections is legion and is primarily located in the California Elections Code.

Candidates and committees supporting candidates or measures in the City of Palo Alto must also comply
with Palo Alto Municipal Code (PAMC) Chapter 2.40. Of special importance is PAMC Section 2.40.040,
which requires the City Clerk to publish the names of the contributors of $50 or more. State law requires
disclosure of contributions of $100 or more. To facilitate the disclosure process, contributions of $50 or
more may be shown on the State campaign statements and will thus satisfy both the municipal as well as
State law disclosure regulations. Statements, which do not disclose contributors and contributions of $50
or more, will be considered incomplete and will not be accepted for filing.

Anonymous contributions totaling $50 or more in a calendar year are not permitted. Anonymous
contributions between $50 and $100 shall be deposited with the City Clerk and shall not be kept by the
candidate (PAMC Section 2.40.050). Anonymous contributions over $100 shall be paid to the Secretary of
State for deposit in the General Fund of the State (GC 84304).


Here are helpful links:

State of California Elections Page:
http://www.sos.ca.gov/elections/

California Elections Code:
http://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/codesTOCSelected.xhtml?tocCode=ELEC&tocTitle=+Elections+Co
de+-+ELEC

Fair Political Practices Commission:
http://www.fppc.ca.gov/learn/campaign-rules.html
2018 General Election




          1
2018 General Election




          2
