                    City of Palo Alto                                         (ID # 9529)
                    City Council Staff Report

Report Type: Informational Report              Meeting Date: 9/10/2018

Summary Title: PAFD Biannual Performance Report FY18

Title: Palo Alto Fire Department Biannual Performance Report for the Second
Half of Fiscal Year 2018

From: City Manager

Lead Department: Fire

Recommendation
Staff recommends the City Council review the Second Palo Alto Fire Department
Biannual Performance Report for Fiscal Year 2018.

Background and Discussion
In Fiscal Year 2015 the Palo Alto Fire Department (PAFD) identified performance
reporting as a key initiative, and began reporting on key performance measures
quarterly. Beginning Fiscal Year 2018, the Department will be submitting reports twice
each year.

The report provides overall calls for service information, as well as more detailed
information on the key service areas, including Emergency Medical Services, Fire
Suppression, Rescue and Hazardous Materials Response, and Fire Prevention. The
report also provides information on mutual and automatic aid with our regional public
safety partners and internal workforce planning efforts.

Performance measures include the following:

        Calls for Service: This data provides information on the final outcome of all
         emergency response calls. The data is tracked in the Fire Department’s Record
         Management System, and uses standardized call type codes, which are defined
         by the National Fire Incident Reporting System (NFIRS). The report includes
         overall call volume by primary category, and a detailed listing of call type in the
         service type sections.

         In Fiscal Year 2018 the Department will be structuring and reporting on calls for
         service based on the NFIRS category groups in order to maintain consistency


City of Palo Alto                                                                     Page 1
         amongst various City performance reports and statistics sent to State and
         National reporting centers.

        Response Times: This aspect measures the time it takes from an emergency call
         or request for response being created in the dispatch center to the arrival of
         resources to the scene of the emergency. This information is tracked in the
         Computer Aided Dispatch (CAD) System, and the performance goals, or service
         levels, are set by Council in accordance with county and national standards.

        Ambulance Transports: The report provides the number of ambulatory transports
         to hospitals or other medical care facilities, and the proportion of Emergency
         Medical Calls that included transports. This information is tracked in the Fire
         Department’s Emergency Medical Record Management System.

        Fire Containment: This measures the proportion of building and structure fires
         that are contained to the area or room of origin within Palo Alto and Stanford
         Campus.

        Mutual and Automatic Aid: This includes the number and proportion of all
         incidents in which the PAFD provided aid to neighboring communities, as well as
         the aid received from neighboring Fire Departments. This information is tracked
         in the CAD System.

        Permits: This provides the count of facility, electric vehicle, and solar permits
         issued by the Fire Prevention Bureau. This information is currently tracked in the
         Development Center’s Records Management System.

        Inspections: A count of the total number of Hazardous Materials and State
         Mandated inspections is provided. In addition, an estimated number of
         inspections to be completed for the year is also provided to assess overall
         workload performance to date.

        Fire and Life Safety Plans Reviewed: This provides a total count of all plans
         reviewed, as well as the proportion of plans that were reviewed within the time
         guidelines.

        Vacancies and Off-Line Employees: This section provides the total number of
         budgeted full-time equivalent line personnel, current vacancies, and employees
         that are off line from workers compensation or light duty. This information is
         obtained from the Fire Department’s Staffing and Scheduling System (TeleStaff),
         as well as the City’s Personnel Management System.

        Succession Planning Metrics: This provides the number and proportion of line
         personnel that are eligible to retire, or will be eligible within the next five years.

City of Palo Alto                                                                        Page 2
         This information is tracked in the City’s Personnel Management System. This
         report also provides the total number of hours line personnel have spent in an
         acting capacity. Personnel serving in an acting capacity are a key component of
         the Department’s overall succession planning efforts. Acting capacity allows
         junior officers to learn the responsibilities of higher ranks with guidance from
         senior officers. This information is tracked in TeleStaff.

     Training hours: The total number of training hours completed by all line
      personnel is provided, as well as the average number of hours per each line
      personnel on staff. This information is tracked in the Fire Department’s Record
      Management System. Local, State and Federal mandates require fire personnel
      to train a minimum of 20 hours per month.
Attachments:
    ATTACHMENT A_Coverletter
    ATTACHMENT B_BiAnnual Performance Report FY18.2
    Attachment C_EMS Survey
    Attachment D_Thank You Notes




City of Palo Alto                                                                  Page 3
                                                                    City of Palo Alto
                                                                    Fire Department




Honorable Councilmembers,

I am pleased to provide the enclosed performance report for the second half of Fiscal Year 2018. This
period marks a significant change in our deployment, as the changes and staffing reductions approved
by City Council in October 2017 took effect at the beginning of this period in January 2018.

These changes were the result of a lengthy meet and confer process with the IAFF Union, Local 1319.
The deployment changes shifted resources in order to better meet the needs of the community,
increase ambulance availability, and spread the workload of the system more equitably amongst crews.

The Department has been closely monitoring the performance of the new deployment internally, and
the enclosed performance report shows that the system is continuing to perform well. Response times
remain consistent with those from the same period of the prior fiscal year.

We have also seen that with cross staffing and dispatch changes that the workload generated by the
system is much more equitable across all units. This has allowed are busiest units to have time for fire
inspections, training and other daily required tasks, which was previously a challenge with their call
volume.

I am also happy to report to you that the Department is nearing completion of the Accreditation
Process. The Palo Alto Fire Department embarked on the process in 2013, beginning with the
development of the Strategic Plan. Accreditation allows us to take a close assessment of the
Department’s policies, procedures and programs and identify areas of strength and where we can
continue to improve. I am grateful to our staff for the hard work and countless hours put into this
intensive process. On August 9, 2018, the Commission on Fire Accreditation International awarded the
Fire Department accreditation. The Palo Alto Fire Department becomes the tenth municipal fire
department in California to achieve accreditation.

Sincerely,




Eric Nickel, EFO, CFC, CFO
Fire Chief




                                                                      P.O Box 10250
                                                                      Palo Alto, CA 94303
                                                                      650.329.2184
                                                                      650.327.6951 fax
                 Palo Alto Fire Department
                 Bi-Annual Performance Report
                 Fiscal Year 2018, Second Period
Calls for Service
The Palo Alto Fire Department (PAFD) responded to a total of 4,344 calls for service in the
second period of Fiscal Year 2018. This includes responses within Palo Alto, Stanford, and
neighboring cities to provide Auto and Mutual Aid. Approximately eighty-three percent (83%)
of calls are generated from Palo Alto, fifteen percent (15%) from Stanford, and the remainder
from neighboring cities or requests for regional fire deployment.
The majority of calls were for Rescue and Emergency Medical Services, making up sixty-three
percent (63%) of the responses. Table 1 below shows the main categories of the calls to which
PAFD responded. Calls are classified based on the actual event occurred, rather than the initial
call request.
                          Call Type                     FY17 JAN-JUN FY18 JAN-JUN
     Rescue and Emergency Medical Services Incidents       2,908        2,729
     Good Intent                                             708          671
     False Alarm and False Call                              615          553
     Service Call                                            267          228
     Fire                                                     70           84
     Hazardous Condition, No Fire                            133           78
     Overpressure Rupture, Explosion, Overheat, No Fire       2            1
     Grand Total                                           4,703        4,344
Good Intent and False Alarm calls make up the second largest types of responses. Most calls for
service that may be a true threat of fire, gas or other emergency hazard are actually found to be
something else after Firefighters investigate the situation. These calls are coded as Good Intent
calls. As well, many fire alarm activations are from causes other than fire or emergency hazard.
These situations are categorized as False Alarm calls.

Emergency Medical Services
Emergency Medical Service (EMS) is the primary service that the Palo Alto Fire Department
provides to Palo Alto and Stanford. While this shift toward EMS is being seen across the region,
the Palo Alto Fire Department is the only Fire Department in the County that provides
ambulance and transport services.
This is especially valuable to our community. The most recent Report from the Council on Aging
Silicon Valley from 2012 indicates that Palo Alto has the highest percentage of the oldest
PAFD FY18 Bi-Annual Performance Report

seniors (75 and over) in the County. This population relies most on our services, with a service
utilization rate more than six times greater than the rest of the population.
Of the 2,729 Emergency Medical Service calls the PAFD responded to in the second period of
Fiscal Year 2018, the overwhelming majority were for medical, trauma and cardiac calls that did
not involve a vehicle accident.
          Rescue and EMS Performance Measures                   FY17 JAN-JUN      FY18 JAN-JUN
Emergency Medical Service Incident                                 2,849             2,687
Extrication, Rescue                                                  39                23
Lock-In                                                              17                10
Rescue or EMS Standby                                                 3                 9
                                                        Total      2,908             2,729
Transports
Number of Transports                                                 1,870            1,887
Percent of EMS Calls resulting in transport                           64%              69%
Response Times
Percent of first responder arriving on scene to EMS calls
within 8 minutes                                                     94%               92%
Percent of paramedic responder arriving on scene to EMS
calls within 12 minutes                                              99%               99%
Average response time for first responder arriving on scene
to EMS calls                                                         4:42              5:11
This period reflects a slight dip in the number of Rescue and EMS Incident calls. The number of
EMS calls that resulted in an ambulance transport to a local hospital or care facility, accounted
for sixty nine percent (69%) of all EMS calls.
The most common rescue calls involved the removal of victims from a stalled elevator totaling
twenty-three (23) which is also a decrease in comparison to the same period of the previous
fiscal year. Lock-Ins also depict a decrease this period accounting.

     Response Time Goal Met: At least 90% of first responder arriving on scene to EMS calls
      within 8 minutes.
      This period the PAFD first responder arrived on scene to EMS calls within 8 minutes
      ninety-two percent (92%) of the time.

     Response Time Goal Met: At least 99% of paramedic responder arriving on scene
      to EMS calls within 12 minutes.
      This quarter the PAFD paramedic responder arrived on scene to EMS calls within
      12 minutes ninety-nine percent (99%) of the time.




                                                                                       2|Page
PAFD FY18 Bi-Annual Performance Report


Fire Suppression
Very few of the potential fire calls coming into dispatch turn out to be a real fire once PAFD
investigates the scene and cause of the concerning elements. This period PAFD responded to
eighty-four (84) calls where fire was present, with seventy-five (75) in Palo Alto or Stanford.
There were seven building fires that the Department responded to, five of which were
contained to the area of origin.

Here are the descriptions of the building fires that we had between Jan 01 and June 30:
    January 15, 2018
    This fire was at the Three Seasons Restaurant. When the first due engine arrived, they
    reported heavy fire on the roof of a 2 story commercial building. There was also fire in the
    kitchen of the restaurant, which was also determined to be where the fire originated. Based
    on the investigation, the kitchen exhaust flue caught on fire and ran through the vent and
    eventually, the roof. Unfortunately, the restaurant has closed and has gone under extensive
    remodeling to repair fire damage.
    March 6, 2018
    This was a fire in a single family residence. The source of this fire was discovered in the
    corner of the garage before it was extinguished. Smoke from the fire had charged the home
    as well as the attic. Based on the investigation, the cause may have been faulty wiring.
    March 25, 2018
    This fire was reported as a duplex with flames seen from the front porch and spreading
    laterally to the attached unit and along the eves. The fire was knocked down from the
    exterior with no extension into the structure. Based on the first-in captain’s investigation,
    the fire seemed to be caused by faulty wiring.
    May 7, 2018
    This fire was reported as a fire in a laboratory. It was reported that it was a small fire in a
    battery test room and was extinguished with a C02 extinguisher.
    June 12, 2018
    This fire took place at a 2 story single family residence. The first-in engine was able to make
    access and quickly knock down the fire. It appeared that the fire was possibly caused by a
    malfunctioning power supply unit.
    June 16, 2018
    Engine 65 responded to a private fire alarm at an apartment complex. Upon arrival, they
    heard an audible alarm. When the crews made access to the involved room, they found that
    the fire was extinguished by the activated sprinkler head. The cause was determined to be a
    faulty light fixture.




                                                                                                      3|Page
PAFD FY18 Bi-Annual Performance Report

                 Fire Suppression Measures                     FY17 JAN-JUN     FY18 JAN-JUN
 Structure Fire                                                     36               42
 Mobile property (vehicle) fire                                      6               13
 Natural vegetation on fire                                          7                6
 Outside rubbish fire                                                5               22
 Special outside fire                                                1                1
                                                         Total      70               84
 Response Times
 Percent of first responder arriving on scene to Fire calls
 within 8 minutes                                                   86%                88%
 Average response time for first responder arriving on
 scene to Fire calls                                                5:22               5:43
 Fire Containment
 Percent of building and structure fires contained to the
 room or area of origin                                             90%                71%

     Response Time Goal Not Met: At least 90% of first responder arriving on scene to
      Fire calls within 8 minutes.

      This period the PAFD first responder arrived on scene to Fire calls within 8
      minutes eighty-eight percent (88%) of the time. This goal is consistently near
      eight-five percent, and we are seeing consistent small increases as the
      department continues to explore ways to improve on this measure.

     Fire Containment Goal Not Met: At least 90% of building and structure fires
      contained to the room or area of origin.

      This period there were seven (7) building or structure fires within Palo Alto or
      Stanford, of which five were contained to the room or area of origin. The two
      fires that spread beyond the area of origin had grown beyond the original area
      before crews arrived on scene. In both bases first responders arrived under six
      minutes.




                                                                                         4|Page
PAFD FY18 Bi-Annual Performance Report


Hazardous Materials
The Fire Department responded to a total of 77 calls related to hazardous material (HazMat)
incidents. The most common HazMat call is spills and leaks of either natural or liquid petroleum
gas (LPG) which totaled 42. This number accounted for fifty-five (55%) percent of HazMat calls.
The second highest HazMat calls were related to electrical wiring or equipment problems.
Twenty-six (26) of these calls account for thirty-four (34%) percent of all HazMat calls.


           Hazardous Materials Response Measures                FY17 JAN-JUN      FY18 JAN-JUN
Combustible/Flammable spills and leaks                                32                35
Electrical wiring/Equipment problem                                   26                26
Accident, potential accident                                          10                6
Chemical release, reaction, or toxic condition                        6                 6
Biological hazard                                                     2                 5
                                                        Total         76                78
Response Times
Average response time for first responder arriving on scene
                                                                      6:17             7:00
to Rescue & Hazardous Materials calls




                                                                                      5|Page
PAFD FY18 Bi-Annual Performance Report


Mutual and Automatic Aid
The Fire Department previously held automatic aid agreements with five regional Fire
Departments, including Mountain View, Menlo Park, San Mateo County, and Santa Clara
County Fire. At the request of the City of Mountain View, the automatic aid agreement was
modified at the beginning of January this year resulting in a significant decrease in the number
of calls compared to the prior fiscal year. The Palo Alto Fire Department continues to advocate
for the closest unit response and collects objective data to support improved services to all of
our communities under the previous automatic aid agreement. Of the other jurisdictions where
mutual aid was provided Santa Clara County received the next highest aid from the department
yet in comparison to the previous period, the data shows aid provided decreased about 42%.
Three other agencies provided mutual or automatic aid for calls within Palo Alto or Stanford on
a total of 66 incidents.


                   Mutual Aid Performances                    FY17 JAN-JUN FY18 JAN-JUN
Mutual and Auto Aid Provided
Agency
Mountain View Fire                                                 189          30
Santa Clara County Fire                                             53          31
Menlo Park Fire                                                     5            4
San Mateo County                                                    0            1
                             All Mutual and Auto Aid Provided      247          66
Mutual and Auto Aid Received
Agency
Mountain View Fire                                                 193          44
Menlo Park Fire                                                     30          13
Santa Clara County Fire                                             16           4
Woodside Fire                                                       7            5
Moffett Fire                                                        3            0
Santa Clara City Fire                                               2            0
                             All Mutual and Auto Aid Received      251          66




                                                                                      6|Page
PAFD FY18 Bi-Annual Performance Report


Fire Prevention
The Fire Prevention Bureau ensures compliance with the Fire Code for the safety of occupants
and protection of property. Fire Inspectors perform fire sprinkler and fire alarm inspections,
plan checks, permitting, and field fire safety inspections with the goal of ensuring all
construction complies with local and national codes.
The number of plans to review slightly decreased by 1% compared to reviews in FY17 during the
same period. The Bureau has kept up with reviewing the majority of plans on time despite the
sizeable workload increase, with ninety-six percent (96%) of plans reviewed on time.
The percentage of facilities inspected at sixteen percent (16%) is below the goal of twenty-five
percent (25%). This is due to a staffing shortage, as one of the hazardous materials inspectors
was out on disability for the duration of the reporting period. This was in addition to a vacancy
created by a retirement at the beginning of the fiscal year. In the coming Fiscal Year, the Bureau
expects to be fully staffed by September, as those on disability are expected to return and
hiring processes will be finalized to fill vacancies.


         Prevention Bureau Performance Measures                   FY17 JAN-JUN     FY18 JAN-JUN
Permits
Fire Permits Issued                                                    324              232
Sprinkler Permits Issued                                               131              140
Electric Vehicle Permits Issued                                         21               1
Solar Permits Issued                                                   154               69
Inspections
Fire Inspections                                                      4,205            4,964
Hazardous Material Inspections Completed                               170               87
Number of Hazardous Material Inspections for the year                  584              563
Percent of Hazardous Material Facilities Inspections Complete          29%              16%
State Mandated Inspections Completed                                   169              397
Number of State Mandated Inspections for the year                      397              397
Percent of State Mandated Facilities Inspections Complete              43%             100%
Fire and Life Safety Plan Review
Plans Reviewed                                                         998              985
Percent of Reviews Completed On-Time                                   97%              96%




                                                                                       7|Page
PAFD FY18 Bi-Annual Performance Report


Workforce Planning
This period marks the beginning of Deployment changes and staffing reductions approved by
City Council in October 2017. The Department operates daily emergency response operations
with a revised total of 86.00 FTE line personnel. This includes three battalions of crews that
staff six stations in the City and Stanford 24 hours each day. Over the last period, the
department has operated with 8.0 positions vacant and 7.0 employees off-line creating a total
of 15.00 FTE positions that require backfilling with overtime.
The permanent vacancies are mostly within the Firefighter and Apparatus Operator
Classifications; one vacancy in the Captain rank due to a retirement, and one vacancy in the
Battalion Chief rank due to a promotion. The Department is currently conducting an entry level
hiring process for a fall academy.
The Battalion Chief position is a critical middle management role, and in order to build on the
Department’s succession planning efforts is in the process of updating the Acting Battalion
Chief policies, with the goal of selecting Acting Battalion Chiefs through a process by winter
2018.
Training hours reported for this period reflect a drop which is significantly caused by a change
of training and reporting software now used by the department. The Department is in the
process of change management with regard to utilizing a new system for tracking training hours
on duty. The reduced number reflects the transitional period, as the majority of training has not
been accurately captured in the system. The Training Battalion Chief is working with crews and
management staff to increase accountability with proper reporting. We should see an
improvement and data that more accurately reflects training hours in the coming fiscal year.


                          Vacancies and Off-Line Employees FY18 JAN-JUN

                                                   Off-Line Employees                  Percent of
                          Budgeted                                        Personnel
     Classification                   Vacancies   (Workers Comp/Light                  Personnel
                            FTE                                            On Line
                                                          Duty)                         On Line
Battalion Chief               4           1                 0                 3           75%
Fire Captain                 22           1                 1                20           91%
Fire Apparatus Operator
                             60           6                 6                48           80%
& Fire Fighters
         TOTAL               86           8                 7                71           82%




                                                                                       8|Page
PAFD FY18 Bi-Annual Performance Report


                             Succession Planning                                            FY17 JUL-DEC           FY18 JUL-DEC
Personnel
    Number of Line Personnel Currently Eligible to Retire                                          26                     21
    Number of Line Personnel Eligible to Retire in Five Years                                      19                     22
    Percent of all Line Personnel Eligible to Retire within Five Years                            48%                   51.2%
    Number of Acting Battalion Chief Hours*                                                        84                      -
    Number of Acting Captain Hours                                                               5,453                  5,201
    Number of Acting Apparatus Operator Hours                                                    13,362                 12,437
Training
    Hours of Training Completed                                                                  14,587                 8,018
    Average Hours Per Line Personnel                                                               95                    113
*In the most recent Memorandum of Agreement with the Fire Chief’s Association, Battalion Chief’s cover each other’s
vacancies with straight time. Rarely, a Fire Captain will work overtime to temporarily fill the shift vacancy for a Battalion Chief,
but this is not captured in our systems as working out of class.




                                                                                                                       9|Page
PAFD
VITAL SIGNS REPORT

SURVEYS RECEIVED 1-1-2018 THROUGH 6-30-2018

FILTERS: SURVEY: 1




                                                          P.O. Box 100,
                                                    Andover MA 01810
                                                        (844) 340-6060
                                              Feedback-Innovations.com
                                 VITAL SIGNS PATIENT SATISFACTION REPORT




1.0 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
PAFD received a total of 142 responses for this period. The highest rated section was
Communication, with a total score of 96.5. The lowest rated section was Billing, with a total
score of 88.93.
   • The Communication section had a 97.6% increase in Degree ambulance staﬀ took your
     condition seriously Grado en que el personal del ambulancia se tomó en serio su
     condición.
   • The Billing section had a 88.2% increase in Helpfulness of billing personnel Amabilidad
     del personal de facturación. This may be a focus for further improvement.
   • Percentile ranking this period is lower 31.25%.


                                 Cumulative Score: 94.19




        The benchmark is the mean average of all responses for all services in the Feedback Innovations database.




                                                                                                                    1
VITAL SIGNS PATIENT SATISFACTION REPORT




                                          2
                                   VITAL SIGNS PATIENT SATISFACTION REPORT




2.0 IMPROVEMENT PRIORITY RANKING
Rank      Question

  1       Professionalism of person on the phone
          Profesionalidad de la persona al teléfono
  2       Ability of person on phone to meet your needs
          Capacidad de la persona al teléfono para satisfacer sus necesidades
  3       Speed in which person on the phone dispatched help
          Velocidad en que la persona al teléfono envió la ayuda
  4       Information given prior to ambulance arrival
          Información ofrecida antes de la llegada de la ambulancia
  5       Helpfulness of billing personnel
          Amabilidad del personal de facturación
  6       Ability of billing personnel to meet your needs
          Capacidad del personal de facturación para satisfacer sus necesidades
  7       Responsiveness of billing personnel to billing issues
          Capacidad de respuesta a los problemas de facturación
  8       Cleanliness of ambulance
          Limpieza de la ambulancia
  9       Wait time to get an ambulance
          Tiempo de espera para conseguir una ambulancia
 10       Degree to which service was worth the fees
          Grado en que el servicio es digno de los honorarios
 11       Likelihood of recommending ambulance service
          Probabilidad de recomendar el servicio
 12       Ambulance staﬀ's concern for your privacy
          La preocupación del personal del ambulancia en cuanto a su privacidad
 13       Degree ambulance staﬀ took your condition seriously
          Grado en que el personal del ambulancia se tomó en serio su condición
 14       Ambulance staﬀ's eﬀorts to inform you about treatment
          Los esfuerzos del personal del ambulancia para informarle sobre el procedimiento
 15       Degree to which the ambulance staﬀ worked together to care for you
          Grado en que el personal del ambulancia trabajó en equipo para cuidar de usted
 16       Comfort of ambulance ride
          Confort durante el viaje en ambulancia
 17       Your conﬁdence in skill of ambulance staﬀ
          Su conﬁanza en la experiencia del personal del ambulancia
 18       Ambulance staﬀ cared for you as a person
          Cuidados recibidos por personal del ambulancia
 19       How well your pain was controlled
          ¿En qué grado se ha controlado su dolor?
 20       Your comfort when moved by ambulance staﬀ
          Su comodidad cuando fue trasladado por el personal del ambulancia

 The Improvement Priority Ranking uses a combination of score and correlation to overall satisfaction to determine the most
important areas for improvement. The closer to 1 the more important it is to your patients that this aspect of your service be
                                                     improved upon.




                                                                                                                             3
                                                     VITAL SIGNS PATIENT SATISFACTION REPORT



TABLE OF CONTENTS
.1.0
  . . . EXECUTIVE
        . . . . . . . . . . . SUMMARY
                              . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1. . . . . .
.2.0. . . IMPROVEMENT
           . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .PRIORITY
                                         . . . . . . . . .RANKING
                                                           . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3. . . . . .
 .TABLE
    . . . . . .OF. . . CONTENTS
                       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4. . . . . .
  .4.0
    . . . SECTIONS
           . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .5. . . . . .
.   .   . 4.1
          . . .Dispatch
                ...........          .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . .5.   .   .   .   .   .
.   .   . 4.2
          . . .Communication
                ...........          .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . .6.   .   .   .   .   .
.   .   . 4.3
          . . .Medical
                . . . . . .Care
                            .....    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . .7.   .   .   .   .   .
.   .   . 4.4
          . . .Billing
                ...........          .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . .8.   .   .   .   .   .
.   .   . 4.5
          . . .Service
                . . . . . .Quality
                            .....    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . .9.   .   .   .   .   .
.   .   . 4.6
          . . .Overall
                ...........          .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . 10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ..    .   .   .   .   .



3.0 DEMOGRAPHIC INFORMATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4
                           VITAL SIGNS PATIENT SATISFACTION REPORT




4.0 SECTIONS
4.1 Dispatch
Percentile ranking this period is lower 36.17%.

The Dispatch section showed a 95.4% increase overall from Previous Period to Current
Period, with a total score of 95.4. Drilling down by question for the Dispatch section:
   • There was a 94.6% increase for
     Professionalism of person on the phone Profesionalidad de la persona al teléfono , with
     a score of 94.6.
   • There was a 95.2% increase for Ability of person on phone to meet your needs
     Capacidad de la persona al teléfono para satisfacer sus necesidades , with a score of
     95.2.
   • There was a 97.0% increase for Speed in which person on the phone dispatched help
     Velocidad en que la persona al teléfono envió la ayuda , with a score of 97.0.
   • There was a 94.8% increase for Information given prior to ambulance arrival
     Información ofrecida antes de la llegada de la ambulancia , with a score of 94.8.




                                                                                          5
                           VITAL SIGNS PATIENT SATISFACTION REPORT




4.2 Communication
Percentile ranking this period is lower 41.67%.

The Communication section showed a 96.5% increase overall from Previous Period to
Current Period, with a total score of 96.5. Drilling down by question for the Communication
section:
   • There was a 95.6% increase for Ambulance staﬀ's concern for your privacy La
     preocupación del personal del ambulancia en cuanto a su privacidad , with a score of
     95.6.
   • There was a 97.6% increase for Degree ambulance staﬀ took your condition seriously
     Grado en que el personal del ambulancia se tomó en serio su condición
     , with a score of 97.6.
   • There was a 95.4% increase for Ambulance staﬀ's eﬀorts to inform you about
     treatment Los esfuerzos del personal del ambulancia para informarle sobre el
     procedimiento, with a score of 95.4.
   • There was a 97.4% increase for Degree to which the ambulance staﬀ worked together
     to care for you Grado en que el personal del ambulancia trabajó en equipo para cuidar
     de usted, with a score of 97.4.




                                                                                         6
                          VITAL SIGNS PATIENT SATISFACTION REPORT




4.3 Medical Care
Percentile ranking this period is upper 47.92%.

The Medical Care section showed a 95.48% increase overall from Previous Period to Current
Period, with a total score of 95.48. Drilling down by question for the Medical Care section:
   • There was a 97.0% increase for
     Your conﬁdence in skill of ambulance staﬀ Su conﬁanza en la experiencia del personal
     del ambulancia, with a score of 97.0.
   • There was a 96.8% increase for Ambulance staﬀ cared for you as a person Cuidados
     recibidos por personal del ambulancia, with a score of 96.8.
   • There was a 94.4% increase for How well your pain was controlled ¿En qué grado se ha
     controlado su dolor?, with a score of 94.4.
   • There was a 95.6% increase for Your comfort when moved by ambulance staﬀ Su
     comodidad cuando fue trasladado por el personal del ambulancia , with a score of 95.6.
   • There was a 93.6% increase for Comfort of ambulance ride Confort durante el viaje en
     ambulancia, with a score of 93.6.




                                                                                          7
                           VITAL SIGNS PATIENT SATISFACTION REPORT




4.4 Billing
Percentile ranking this period is lower 27.08%.

The Billing section showed a 88.93% increase overall from Previous Period to Current Period,
with a total score of 88.93. Drilling down by question for the Billing section:
   • There was a 88.2% increase for Helpfulness of billing personnel Amabilidad del
     personal de facturación, with a score of 88.2.
   • There was a 89.8% increase for Ability of billing personnel to meet your needs
     Capacidad del personal de facturación para satisfacer sus necesidades , with a score of
     89.8.
   • There was a 88.8% increase for Responsiveness of billing personnel to billing issues
     Capacidad de respuesta a los problemas de facturación , with a score of 88.8.




                                                                                          8
                           VITAL SIGNS PATIENT SATISFACTION REPORT




4.5 Service Quality
Percentile ranking this period is lower 29.79%.

The Service Quality section showed a 94.05% increase overall from Previous Period to
Current Period, with a total score of 94.05. Drilling down by question for the Service Quality
section:
   • There was a 96.0% increase for Cleanliness of ambulance Limpieza de la ambulancia ,
     with a score of 96.0.
   • There was a 95.6% increase for Wait time to get an ambulance Tiempo de espera para
     conseguir una ambulancia, with a score of 95.6.
   • There was a 90.8% increase for Degree to which service was worth the fees Grado en
     que el servicio es digno de los honorarios , with a score of 90.8.
   • There was a 93.8% increase for Likelihood of recommending ambulance service
     Probabilidad de recomendar el servicio , with a score of 93.8.




                                                                                            9
                           VITAL SIGNS PATIENT SATISFACTION REPORT




4.6 Overall
Percentile ranking this period is lower 22.92%.

The Overall section showed a 94.8% increase overall from Previous Period to Current Period,
with a total score of 94.8. Drilling down by question for the Overall section:
   • There was a 94.8% increase for Overall rating of experience Valoración general de la
     experiencia, with a score of 94.8.




                                                                                        10
Jesus,



Thanks for making this little girl’s day! It looks like her fender is bent, and she couldn’t ride her bike
unless you removed it. Add bike repair to our list of things we do for the community.



If you don’t mind, I’d like to share this with the City Manager’s Office and Council as another example of
PAFD members fulfilling our mission. I will make sure we get this note in your personnel file.



Best,
Eric

From: Matt Elgin [mailto:mattelgin@gmail.com]
Sent: Thursday, May 10, 2018 6:12 PM
To: Fire
Subject: Thank you




Your kind fireman saved the day for my daughter, thanks! (Picture Included)
Sent: Friday, June 15, 2018 1:59 AM
To: Fire; Police
Cc: Keene, James; Hoyt, George
Subject: Appreciation Re: June 11, 2018 - Monday Evening Fire on Palo Alto Ave


Hello City of Palo Alto, Fire Department and Police Department;

I just want to put down in words, my appreciation for how the Fire and Police Department folks
responded in our hour of need. You folks were unbelievably speedy getting to us within minutes,
amazing in your teamwork and utterly awesome in your courtesy throughout the emergency. And it was
noticed, the great care you took with precious computer equipment.

I am a resident of 426 Palo Alto Ave. I woke from a nap around 10 pm to hear my upstair's neighbor say
he saw smoke in his stairwell and was calling 911. In the two minutes it took me to grab the kitty and
laptop, a policeman was already walking up to the door to guide us off the property. Just then, my next
door neighbor rushed past into his apartment with the fire and I heard him say “Hurry, it's still a small
fire, you can put it out!” Looking around we saw the firemen had arrived and were approaching. You
contained it and prevented a disaster. Within the hour you were back out to us, answering our anxious
questions and helping us to retrieve our car keys and bare essentials as we figured out how to cope with
housing for the night. The National Disaster coordinator as well as the Red Cross and our neighborhood
residents present were all wonderful, offering help and a place to stay as we digested our situation.

Wednesday, on my way to clean up I met the building inspector on the street and he was most helpful in
his efforts to make it possible for power to be re-established, so that we could get back into our living
spaces. That day I also ran into the doctor two houses down. He stopped to ask how we were and then
spoke of his admiration for the impressive teamwork shown by the fire fighters who responded, three
fire engines worth! I don’t know what stations they came from but - Thank You ! You made a tough time
easier.

Today Thursday, I saw a team of police officers gathered at our place. I asked what they were up to - and
they said “To learn from the situation”. The shock of the last few days is unravelling and with time to
take a breath, I thought, its time to let you know what your efforts mean at this end. I cannot think of a
better group of people for a community to rely on, you are much appreciated.

With admiration and gratitude,

Viviane Chen
From: Lanie Wheeler [mailto:hswdw14@gmail.com]
Sent: Tuesday, June 19, 2018 3:43 PM
To: Nickel, Eric; Jonsen, Robert; Keene, James
Subject: Many thanks




Last Friday morning our family had the experience of needing to place a call to 911, resulting in a visit
from the Palo Alto Fire Department paramedics and the Palo Alto Police Department and subsequent
transport to the Stanford Hospital Emergency Room.



I just felt compelled to let you all know how professionally and caringly each of the responders from the
initial 911 operator to the paramedics to the police officer who remained with me after the ambulance
left our house treated both my husband and me.



I was too rattled to get any of their names except for Yolanda Clausen who left her card with me. The
case number was 18-3189. If you can tie that back to specific responders, please let them know how
grateful I am to them. I just know their work played a huge part in the prognosis for my husband's
eventual recovery.



Lanie Wheeler
