City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 10:06 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Fred Balin <fbalin@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Saturday, March 17, 2018 7:59 AM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        Outrageous! -- Video is up -- Alcheck, 3/14 at PTC "My Last Comment is Directed to
                                Staff ..."


https://youtu.be/FurF5zGxyH4?t=12091

Follow-up to my knee-jerk, capsule email to you (below) after Item 1 at P&TC on Wednesday.
City manager included on this one.

Video of the 3/14 P&TC meeting is up; link to start of 3-minute segment is above and below .
Kindly view, then process your reaction into the overall fabric of personal experience, direct comments from
others including those made in public, and this week’s press coverage all related to the suitability of
Commissioner Alcheck’s continued presence on the commission.

https://youtu.be/FurF5zGxyH4?t=12091

Thank you,
Fred Balin
2385 Columbia Street


From: Fred Balin <fbalin@gmail.com>
Subject: Outrageous!
Date: March 14, 2018 at 10:15:04 PM PDT
To: city.council@cityofpaloalto.org

Alcheck’s lecture to the planning director at the end of Item 1 at P&TC tonite ... one-upped even himself during
the evening, which included more of the usual, and .... not to mention, the new revelations in the press Monday.
The time for action has arrived.

Sent from Fred's iPhone




                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/21/2018 12:46 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Marge Shapiro <mshap12@comcast.net>
Sent:                              Wednesday, March 21, 2018 11:32 AM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           Palo Alto Animal Shelter


Dear Council Members,

As a resident of Los Altos and board member of Friends of the Palo Alto Animal Shelter I am aware of the ongoing issue
of management and upgrading of the shelter. This is a worthy project for our communities and it needs to proceed. Our
president, Jeremy Robinson, has presented to you the ultimate vision for a state of the art and revenue producing
facility. We have a prime partner, Pets In Need, waiting to manage the shelter but time is short and their patience is
waning. After several years of working toward this agreement, it is time for the contract to be signed. Please don’t let
this opportunity pass.

Thank you,

Marge Shapiro
Director
Friends of the Palo Alto Shelter




                                                           1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 10:09 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                Leslie Evers <pergamond@aol.com>
Sent:                                Sunday, March 18, 2018 10:52 AM
To:                                  Council, City; Architectural Review Board
Cc:                                  Clerk, City
Subject:                             Palo Alto ARB review of proposed Verizon towers is essential


To the City, ladies and gentlemen,

  Please note I am OPPOSED to the installation of over 90 (or any number) of Verizon towers in the city without their
first being passed through the Architectural Review Board in Palo Alto.

I am very appreciative of the City council’s hard work in keeping our town livable and also up with the times.
However, I have no idea what these things are going to look like ‐ and pictures online are not promising or appealing.
I think as citizens we would all prefer someone be in charge of how they look. In addition, there is an extra concern for
potentially increased microwave radiation exposure, but that's a side issue. I assume that has been thoroughly
evaluated?

I am really more concerned with just dropping these things all over town indiscriminately without aesthetic guidelines. If
I had an overall vote I would say NO to it all. But the ARB review is absolutely vital if it is going to happen.


There is a meeting tomorrow (Monday) night regarding this but I cannot attend, so I am making my voice known. Thanks
so much for you attention.

Leslie Johnson Evers
1146 Waverley Street




                                                              1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 9:42 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com>
Sent:                         Thursday, March 15, 2018 12:16 AM
To:                           paloaltofreepress@gmail.com; acisneros@capublicrecordslaw.com; chuckjagoda1
                              @gmail.com; Jonsen, Robert; Binder, Andrew; Perron, Zachary;
                              dcbertini@menlopark.org; gkirby@redwoodcity.org; swagstaffe@smcgov.org;
                              jrosen@da.sccgov.org; michael.gennaco@oirgroup.com; HRC; Stump, Molly;
                              molly.o'neal@pdo.sccgov.org; Damon Silver; wilpf.peninsula.paloalto@gmail.com;
                              Council, City; roberta.ahlquist@sjsu.edu; timothygray@sbcglobal.net;
                              council@redwoodcity.org; citycouncil@menlopark.org; myraw@smcba.org; Watson,
                              Ron; Tony Dixon; stevendlee@alumni.duke.edu
Subject:                      Palo Alto Human Relations Commission questions police-video-transparency-policy



https://www.paloaltoonline.com/news/2018/03/13/commission-questions-police-video-transparency-policy

Shared via the Google app


Sent from my iPhone




                                                      1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 9:40 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Annette Fazzino <annette.fazzino@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Wednesday, March 14, 2018 2:38 PM
To:                             Architectural Review Board
Cc:                             Council, City; Clerk, City
Subject:                        Please deny approval to Verizon's cell towers



Dear Members of the Architectural Review Board:

Please deny approval to Verizon's cell towers in our neighborhoods. I am concerned about noise, aesthetics, and
radiation. At the very least, Verizon's cell tower equipment should all be underground (except the antenna) and
all equipment must not violate City noise ordinances.

Secondarily, I am concerned about anything being added on to the utility poles, as the city was supposed to put
them all underground. If towers and antennas go up in our neighborhoods on existing utility poles, there will be
an inequity throughout the city. Let's make Palo Alto even more beautiful!

Thank you for your consideration.

Yours truly,

Annette Evans Fazzino




                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 9:42 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Jerry Fan <jerry.fan@gmail.com>
Sent:                              Wednesday, March 14, 2018 11:30 PM
To:                                Architectural Review Board
Cc:                                Clerk, City; Council, City
Subject:                           Please do not approve latest proposal by Verizon



To ARB,

Please do not approve Verizon’s cell towers unless all the equipment, except the antenna, are undergrounded and
does not violate our noise ordinances.

They're making excuses for not doing so by saying Palo Alto is in the flood zone for a once in a 500 year chance of flood ‐
and it's is ridiculous. If ARB think it's a valid reason, we shouldn't have any electrical equipment on poles ‐ esp when a
flood can topple the poles and cause fires to surrounding trees and home.

Jerry Fan




                                                             1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 9:44 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                          redress.of.grievance@gmail.com
Sent:                          Thursday, March 15, 2018 8:10 AM
To:                            sdremann@paweekly.com
Cc:                            Council, City; HRC; allison@padailypost.com; Dave Price; Watson, Ron;
                               bjohnson@paweekly.com; bwelch@dao.sccgov.org;
                               bjohnson@embarcaderomediagroup.com; Jay Boyarsky; Jonsen, Robert; Perron,
                               Zachary; Keith, Claudia; cindy.chavez@bos.sccgov.org;
                               acisneros@CApublicrecordslaw.com; James Aram; swebby@da.sccgov.org; Stump,
                               Molly; gsheyner@paweekly.com; Gary.Goodman@pdo.sccgov.org; Keene, James; Kniss,
                               Liz (external); Scharff, Greg; Lum, Patty; dave.cortese@bos.sccgov.org;
                               dangel@da.sccgov.org; Binder, Andrew
Subject:                       Please elaborate Ms. Dremann


And feel free to respond by publishing our past violation(s) to demonstrate how you and your publisher (Bill
Johnson) censor anything controversial and or benign or for that matter anything coming out of East Palo Alto a
predominantly African America and Latino community...

https://www.facebook.com/PAFreePress/posts/1689913184366253




Mark Petersen-Perez
Editor: Palo Alto Free Press
Ticuantepe, Nicaragua 🇳🇮


Sent from my iPad



                                                       1
Independent Review of the BART Police Oversight
                  Structure

                   June 2017




                  Michael J. Gennaco
                      323 821 0586
                   7142 Trask Avenue
                Playa del Rey, CA 90293
                     OIRGroup.com

                     Aaron B. Zisser
                       628 400 1203
                       Oakland, CA
                civilrightsconsulting.com




                           1
                                                         TABLE OF CONTENTS
I.        Executive Summary .............................................................................................................. 3
II. Introduction ........................................................................................................................... 6
     A.      Background. ................................................................................................................................... 6
     B.      Scope and Methodology................................................................................................................. 7
     C.      Acknowledgements ........................................................................................................................ 9

III. Findings and Recommendations........................................................................................ 11
     A.      Clarifying Oversight’s Scope ...................................................................................................... 11
     B.      Increasing OIPA’s Monitoring Responsibilities........................................................................ 12
     C.      Making the Complaint Process Available to All ....................................................................... 14
     D.      Enhancing OIPA Investigations ................................................................................................. 14
     E.      Improving the Disposition Process of OIPA Investigations ..................................................... 18
     F.      Additional Risk Management Role for OIPA. .......................................................................... 23
     G.      Developing a Mediation Program............................................................................................... 24
     H.      Ensuring Prompt OIPA Notification of All Critical Incidents ................................................ 25
     I.      Enhancing OIPA’s Footprint Regarding Use of Force ............................................................. 25
     J.      Mapping Out a Significant Role for the Auditor in BART PD’s Early Identification System
             26
     K.      Increasing OIPA’s Role as Auditor ............................................................................................ 27
     L.      Expanding OIPA’s Role in Policy Development ....................................................................... 28
     M. Ensuring Integration of Oversight in BART PD’s Policies and Practices .............................. 29
     N.      Clarifying the Relationship Between OIPA and the BART Police Citizen Review Board.... 30
     O.      Clarifying and Enhancing the Roles of the BART Police Citizen Review Board .................. 31
     P.      Providing Increased Transparency Authority for BART Oversight ...................................... 34
     Q.      Ensuring Periodic Review of BART Oversight ......................................................................... 34




                                                                              2
I. Executive Summary
Overview of the review: Chapter 3-01 of the BART oversight model (hereinafter the
“Model”) provides as follows:

       The Board of Directors, with input from the BART Police Citizen Review Board,
       Auditor, BART Police Associations, complainants and the public, will evaluate
       the BART Police citizen oversight structure after the first year of implementation
       to determine if the need exists to make changes and or otherwise make
       adjustments to the system to improve its continued performance. This evaluation
       shall in no way be intended to eliminate the BART Police citizen oversight
       structure.1

This review and report were commissioned and conducted in furtherance of BART’s compliance
with this provision of the Model; that is, to facilitate the Board of Directors’ evaluation of the
oversight structure.

Our review began in January 2017. We interviewed the stakeholders whose input is expressly
set out in the Model, but we conducted many additional interviews with a broad range of other
significant parties. We ensured that the evaluation takes account of the original impetus for the
establishment of the oversight system – the January 1, 2009, shooting of Oscar Grant by a BART
Police Department (BART PD) officer – as well as the subsequent systemic reviews of policies
and practices. Because oversight’s effectiveness depends heavily on the community’s trust,
engagement, and support, we placed a high premium on community attitudes and concerns
regarding the oversight system. We measured these factors in a variety of ways.

During our review, all individuals we met were generous with their time, accessibility, and
candor. Representatives of the Board of Directors, the BART Police Citizen Review Board, and
the BART PD were particularly helpful in providing both relevant documents and important
insights regarding the issues discussed herein. The Office of the Independent Police Auditor
(OIPA) was especially helpful in facilitating the mechanics of our work, and was continually
available to provide documents and important perspective. To the degree that our findings and
recommendations may help enhance the current civilian oversight system, it reflects the
cooperation, assistance, and acumen provided by these stakeholders.

The oversight system: The BART PD oversight system, established in July 2010 following a
process that involved community input, consists of the OIPA and the BART Police Citizen
Review Board. According to the Model, OIPA (with a current staffing level of three) is to
conduct investigations of complaints alleging serious officer misconduct, make
recommendations on BART PD policies and practices, audit Internal Affairs (IA) investigations,
conduct close monitoring of officer-involved shootings, conduct community outreach, issue


1
 The Oversight Model is available on the website of the Office of the Independent Police
Auditor: https://www.bart.gov/about/policeauditor and attached to this report as Attachment A.

                                                3
public reports on investigation outcomes and trends, and provide staffing and other resources to
the BART Police Citizen Review Board.

The BART Police Citizen Review Board consists of 11 members. Each of the nine Directors
selects one member, while one is appointed by the police associations, and one is “at-large.”
According to the Model, the Review Board is to hold monthly public meetings, review OIPA’s
investigations, review BART PD and OIPA recommendations regarding BART PD policies,
make its own recommendations regarding BART PD policies, conduct community outreach, and
issue reports on its activities. Its members are also authorized under the Model to participate in
officer and executive hiring.

Overview of findings: We found that the Model devised in response to the tragic shooting of
Oscar Grant created two oversight entities that have served a valuable purpose in establishing
effective civilian oversight over an agency that had no such previous external influences. The
fact that we offer numerous recommendations designed to strengthen and clarify the original
Model should in no way diminish the work of those who have worked diligently to fulfill the
overarching objectives of accountability, advancing progressive police practices, and fostering
greater community trust in law enforcement. Instead, this Report seeks to fulfill a key part of the
Model’s original vision: one that recognized that a constructive re-assessment of BART’s
nascent oversight program should be built into the design.

From that starting point, we found several areas in which the Model could benefit from revision
and reform. These include significant omissions in the Model relating to investigations and
auditing authority, and the ambiguities in provisions relating to outreach, reporting,
investigations, and policy recommendations.

The review features a total of fifty-three recommendations. They range in scope from broad
issues of jurisdiction and structure to more particular or technical adjustments to specific
provisions in the Model. Among the key categories that produced specific suggestions for
reform are the following:

Recommendations to expand authority and related findings: We recommend expanding the
oversight system’s authority in two areas:

      Broader audit authority: First, we recommend expanding the auditing authority to
       allow OIPA to review any operational aspect of BART PD – as opposed to merely
       reviewing IA’s operations.

      Investigations absent a complaint: Second, we recommend authorizing OIPA to
       conduct its own independent investigation or review into any use of force or potential act
       of misconduct without the need to await receipt of a qualifying citizen complaint.

Other recommendations and findings:

      Independence from each other’s roles and responsibilities should be reinforced through
       structural changes to OIPA and the BART Police Citizen Review Board for the sake of
       their respective and mutual effectiveness. OIPA’s obligations relating to staffing the

                                                 4
    Review Board should be removed, the requirement of a Review Board performance
    evaluation of the IPA should be eliminated, and orientation and training for Review
    Board members should be enhanced to delineate roles and responsibilities.

   Case Auditing should be conducted in a more consistent and thorough manner that
    allows for not only pre-completion input into the IA investigation, but also the ability to
    influence dispositions and discipline prior to BART PD’s final decision.

   A Systemic Auditing protocol should be developed and implemented. OIPA should
    analyze trends and patterns, and it should be involved in BART PD procedures relating to
    use-of-force reviews and early identification of officers who may require remedial
    interventions.

   Investigations should address a broader range of complaints; any person should be able
    to file a complaint; and written protocols should be developed regarding investigative
    techniques, procedures, and coordination with other BART components to ensure
    confidence in OIPA’s investigations and to ensure that it receives all complaints coming
    in to BART.

   Use of Force Review should become an arena in which OIPA more regularly
    participates, including assessing individual incidents, and contributing to holistic
    discussions of tactics and training, and other potential elements of constructive feedback.

   Policy, procedure, and practice recommendations should constitute a regular and
    formalized element of OIPA’s interactions with and influence on BART PD.

   Public reporting by OIPA should be enhanced, in the form of greater detail with regard
    to its case monitoring role of internal investigations initiated by BART PD. Similarly,
    OIPA should report on the increased activities proposed in this report.

   Mediation should continue to be studied for ways to make it more attractive to
    complainants and officers.

   An oversight system evaluation should be conducted periodically.




                                              5
II. Introduction
                                        A. Background.

BART PD: Established in 1969, BART PD is “comprised of 296 personnel, of which 206 are
sworn peace officers,” according to BART PD’s website.2 BART PD covers the entire BART
system, which extends into four counties. The Chief of Police reports to the General Manager
(GM), who is appointed by the Board of Directors.

Shooting of Oscar Grant and aftermath: On January 1, 2009, Oscar Grant was fatally shot by
BART police officer Johannes Mehserle on the Fruitvale Station platform. On August 11, 2009,
the law firm Meyers Nave issued a report regarding policies and practices “relevant to the” Oscar
Grant shooting.3

From June 2009 to September 2009, the National Organization of Black Law Enforcement
Executives (NOBLE) conducted a review of BART PD’s policies and practices, and it issued a
report on January 1, 2010, which identified areas for improvement in a number of areas of BART
PD’s operations.4 A follow-up audit was conducted in 2013, and BART PD continues to report
on its ongoing efforts to implement the recommended reforms.

In June 2010, Mehserle was convicted of involuntary manslaughter and acquitted of murder and
voluntary manslaughter charges.

BART Public Safety Accountability Act: In September 2009 – immediately following the
Meyers Nave report and before the completion of the NOBLE report – a bill was proposed in the
state legislature to create an independent oversight system for BART PD. In July of 2010, the
BART Public Safety Accountability Act was enacted. It directed the BART Board of Directors
to “establish an office of independent police auditor, reporting directly to the board, to
investigate complaints against district police personnel” and assigned the following “powers and
duties” to the appointed auditor5:

      (1) To investigate those complaints or allegations of on-duty misconduct and off-duty
          unlawful activity by district police personnel, within the independent police auditor’s
          purview as it is set by the board.


2
    “History of the BART Police Department,” http://m.bart.gov/about/police/employment.
3
 Meyers Nave, “Review of BART PD Policies, Practices and Procedures Re: New Year’s Day
2009,” 1 (Aug. 2009), available at
https://www.bart.gov/sites/default/files/docs/Meyers_Nave_Public_Report.pdf.
4
 NOBLE, “BART Management Audit,” (Jan. 2010) [NOBLE Audit (2010)], available at
https://www.bart.gov/sites/default/files/docs/NOBLE Final Report.pdf.
5
    CA Pub. Util. Code § 28767.8(a) (2016).

                                                   6
      (2) To reach independent findings as to the validity of each complaint.

      (3) To recommend appropriate disciplinary action against district police personnel for those
          complaints determined to be sustained.6

The Act also authorized the Board to create “a citizen review board to participate in
recommending appropriate disciplinary action.”7

Oversight Model: Pursuant to the legislation, the BART Board of Directors formed a committee
to study what type of oversight should be established. There were numerous public hearings
with robust input from members of the community. The Model eventually promulgated called
for an independent police auditor, as well as a citizen review board. Responsibilities of the
oversight system – detailed in this report – included: investigations of complaints alleging
serious officer misconduct, recommendations on BART PD policies and practices, auditing of
Internal Affairs investigations, close monitoring of officer-involved shootings, community
outreach, and issuing public reports on investigation outcomes and trends.

OIPA: The OIPA is appointed by and reports directly to the Board of Directors. OIPA consists
of three staff, including the Independent Police Auditor (IPA), an investigator, and an
administrative support person.

BART Police Citizen Review Board: The Review Board consists of 11 members, including
nine members appointed by the respective Directors, a member appointed by the police
associations, and an at-large member selected through a formal application process.

                                       B. Scope and Methodology

Scope: Chapter 3-01 of the Oversight Model provides as follows:

         The Board of Directors, with input from the BART Police Citizen Review Board,
         Auditor, BART Police Associations, complainants and the public, will evaluate the
         BART Police citizen oversight structure after the first year of implementation to
         determine if the need exists to make changes and or otherwise make adjustments to the
         system to improve its continued performance. This evaluation shall in no way be
         intended to eliminate the BART Police citizen oversight structure.

Even though the Model calls for an evaluation after one year of implementation, no assessment
has ever been conducted since the inception of BART’s civilian oversight. While this lapse was
unfortunate, it is a testament to OIPA and the Board of Directors that this independent review
has now been commissioned.

We sought to answer two basic sets of questions:


6
    CA Pub. Util. Code § 28767.8(b)(1)-(3) (2016).
7
    CA Pub. Util. Code § 28767.8(c) (2016).

                                                  7
      Does the oversight structure perform as contemplated in the language of the Model? If
       not, what ambiguities or omissions in the Model’s language may impact optimum
       performance?

      Could the oversight structure be improved or enhanced to further the oversight system’s
       goals, as articulated in best practices and understood by the communities it serves?

Overview of methodology: To these ends, we evaluated:

      The language of the Model for ambiguity or weaknesses.

      Whether practice could benefit by providing clearer authority, expansion of duties, and
       reconsideration of priorities.

      The perceptions and concerns of communities BART serves and BART system
       stakeholders, as well as national best practices, to gauge what changes would help to
       instill additional trust in the oversight structure and aid in serving its goals.

Interviews: Our review began in January 2017 and entailed more than 50 interviews with nearly
four dozen stakeholders. These included OIPA staff; BART Police Citizen Review Board
members; seven BART directors; local oversight professionals; local advocacy groups, including
the local ACLU affiliate and the Coalition on Homelessness; police associations; IA officers; and
BART PD command staff.

Community interest and concerns: Just as it was essential that we speak with police officials
and representatives, community feedback – particularly input from impacted communities,
including communities of color – was of critical importance in our review. This is because the
effectiveness of civilian oversight depends heavily on the community’s trust in its independence,
authority, and capacity.

Community members – especially those who have perceived or borne the brunt of systemic
unfairness and an adversarial relationship with law enforcement – are much more likely to
provide information and insight to an oversight entity that they consider fair, meaningful, and
empowered. Those contributions from the community can, in turn, strengthen the legitimacy and
the effectiveness of the oversight entity. And this dynamic can ultimately increase community
trust in the police department, as well – the public is reassured by the sense of accountability and
gives credence to the positive acknowledgements of progress that the oversight entity can
provide. Accordingly, our recommendations draw heavily on what we learned from and about
the communities served by BART.

We assessed community interest through interviews with individual residents as well as political
leaders, leaders of community and advocacy groups, and leaders of other Bay Area oversight
agencies who could speak to broader community sentiment. We also gauged community interest
and concerns through other Bay Area initiatives on oversight, as well as input provided during
the original 2009 process.




                                                 8
Finally, we sought to account for any countervailing concerns, with an eye toward maximizing
the understanding and acceptance of all key stakeholders, including those subject to oversight
and those with contrasting viewpoints on how it should function.

BART Police Citizen Review Board sessions and documentation: We attended three Review
Board sessions and requested and reviewed additional documentation, including:

        The Model and earlier drafts of the Model
        Review Board bylaws
        Complaints and OIPA investigation reports
        Notifications provided to officers and complainants
        OIPA monitoring reports regarding IA investigations
        OIPA and Review Board reports
        Review Board agendas and minutes
        OIPA and Review Board policy recommendations
        IPA and Review Board member selection materials
        The 2010 NOBLE report, the follow-up 2013 audit, and the 2009 Meyers Nave report
        Outreach materials
        Public information regarding the process for developing the oversight Model, community
         members’ observations of the oversight system, and serious incidents involving BART
         PD officers

Best practices and standards: In addition to drawing from our own experience and exposure to
various oversight models and practices, we consulted best practices and standards from a variety
of sources, including the National Association for the Civilian Oversight of Law Enforcement
(NACOLE) reports and reports by other professional organizations; scholarly literature on
oversight; the NACOLE code of ethics (cited in the Model); the Core Principles for an Effective
Police Auditor’s Office (cited in the Model); U.S. Department of Justice, Civil Rights Division
investigations and consent decrees8 and COPS Collaborative Reform Initiative reports9; and the
Final Report of the President’s Task Force on 21st Century Policing (May 2015).10

                                     C. Acknowledgements

We received enormous support throughout the review process from a range of stakeholders and
are grateful to each person who took the time to sit down with us for an interview. We were able
to interview most members of the Board of Directors, who expressed strong interest in the
review. Some helpfully directed us to other stakeholders. BART PD’s executive staff, Internal

8
 The U.S. Department of Justice publishes its findings letters and settlement agreements on its
website: https://www.justice.gov/crt/special-litigation-section-cases-and-matters0.
9
 The U.S. Department of Justice catalogues its COPS assessment reports:
https://cops.usdoj.gov/collaborativereform.
10
   Final Report of the President’s Task Force on 21st Century Policing (May 2015), available at
https://cops.usdoj.gov/pdf/taskforce/taskforce finalreport.pdf.

                                                9
Affairs investigators, and the police associations, as well as the OIPA staff were open and candid
and provided invaluable insights.

The current IPA enlisted this review, provided a comprehensive list of potential interviewees,
contacted many of them to help schedule interviews, and was readily available for ongoing
questions. The IPA provided critical OIPA documents and spent many hours sharing his
understanding of and views on the system with us. We applaud his energy and interest and note
that this review likely would not have happened but for his proactivity and creativity. The IPA’s
embracing of this peer review process, and full cooperation with it, is testament to an admirable
growth mindset.

Finally, we are grateful to the family of Oscar Grant, who remain constructively engaged in the
subjects of oversight and accountability, and who took the time in that spirit to share their
experience and suggestions with us.




                                               10
III. Findings and Recommendations
BART’s current oversight model has many admirable features and has served its transit
community well for almost six years. The Model provides OIPA with access to the most
sensitive of Police Department records and gives it the ability to conduct independent
investigations, audit internal investigations conducted by BART PD, and make policy
recommendations. Moreover, the Model provides the BART Police Citizen Review Board with
an opportunity to meaningfully weigh in on complaint investigations and recommend
disciplinary outcomes, an authority that very few community-based oversight entities possess.

However, the Model has ambiguities and places unnecessary limits on oversight authority. This
is due in large part to requiring the existence of a complaint before authority can be exercised. In
addition, the Model saddles OIPA with administrative functions for the BART Police Citizen
Review Board, blurring the lines between oversight entities with complementary yet distinct and
independent roles. The recommendations set out below – which flow from an evaluation process
expressly contemplated by the original model –are intended to provide clarity regarding both
OIPA and the BART Police Citizen Review Board’s authority. The recommendations suggest a
course that could result in more impactful oversight for the benefit of the community and BART
PD alike.

                              A. Clarifying Oversight’s Scope

The Model Should Make Explicit that OIPA’s Oversight Scope Includes All Employees of
BART PD and Any Potential Violations of Policy.

Currently the Model states that OIPA has the authority to exercise its oversight duties with
regard to “any and all law enforcement activities or personnel operating under the authority of”
BART. We have been informed that this passage has been interpreted to include non-sworn
members of BART. However, for purposes of clarity, the Model should indicate that all
employees of BART are within OIPA’s oversight authority.

Many of the non-sworn employees of a police agency have considerable interaction with the
public and are indirectly imbued with the authority of the law enforcement entity for which they
work. Accordingly, those employees often have significant influence on whether the public is
appropriately served by the agency. For that reason, all police department employees should be
subject to civilian oversight’s ambit.

Moreover, at least as to sworn officers, the Model should make clear that any potential violations
of policy should fall within the ambit of OIPA. Law and practice has also recognized that there
is a clear nexus between off-duty conduct and on duty responsibilities for sworn officers. For
that reason, it has been long held that police officers can be held accountable for off-duty
misconduct inconsistent with their duties and responsibility to uphold the law. For example,
officers who are found to have engaged in domestic violence or impaired driving can be
independently sanctioned for that conduct by their employing agencies. In order to ensure
accountability for these actions, progressive oversight entities have recognized that they must


                                                11
similarly be able to exercise oversight over off-duty officer conduct. The Model for OIPA must
ensure that such oversight authority exists over BART PD.

Recommendation One: The Model should be revised to make clear that the scope of OIPA’s
authority extends to non-sworn employees of BART PD and to all potential misconduct
involving sworn officers whether on or off duty.

                                     B. Increasing OIPA’s Monitoring Responsibilities

OIPA Should Consider Revising Its Approach Towards Monitoring Internal Affairs
Investigations Conducted by BART PD Toward Real-Time Monitoring and More
Transparency.

Pursuant to the Model, OIPA has the authority to audit internal affairs investigations conducted
by BART PD to determine if the investigations are “complete, thorough, objective and fair.”
OIPA also has the ability to “require” follow-up investigation into any citizen complaint or
allegation that is handled by BART PD.

OIPA has, in the past, exercised this authority provided by the Model when it determined that a
BART PD investigation did not meet investigative standards. However, we are aware of a recent
instance when there was resistance by BART PD after the Auditor identified an incomplete and
substandard investigation and sought follow-up investigative work. BART PD should be
reminded of the non-discretionary language in the Model requiring it to conduct follow-up
investigation when requested by OIPA. To ensure an effective remedy should there be any
BART PD compliance issues, the Auditor should be able to present any significant lapse to the
attention of the General Manager, the Board of Directors, and the BART Police Citizen Review
Board and set out the incident in its public reporting.

The Model provides the opportunity for OIPA to engage with BART PD as it proceeds with its
internal investigative process. That ability has been enhanced by OIPA’s direct access to IA’s
investigative database. We have been informed that OIPA regularly uses its database access to
audit investigations being conducted by BART PD and has provided input and suggestions such
as identifying additional witnesses to interview. OIPA also provides feedback on completed
investigations to BART PD.11

However, to the degree that OIPA provides such auditing of the Department’s internal affairs
investigations, most of the feedback occurs after the case has been completed and a disposition
has already been rendered. At that point, any post hoc input from OIPA has a potentially limited
impact on disposition decisions made by the Police Department since the disposition has already
been determined and subject officers and complainants notified about that decision.

Another approach to auditing of BART PD cases that appears to be workable within the current
Model would be for OIPA to deploy “real-time” monitoring of cases. Under that paradigm,
11
  To the degree there remains any uncertainty, OIPA should be provided the authority to
monitor any internal investigations conducted by BART PD, including internally generated
investigations.

                                               12
OIPA would audit active Internal Affairs investigations, serve as a resource during the pendency
of the investigations, and, upon their completion, would review each case for completeness and
objectivity. OIPA would then provide any feedback to Internal Affairs, suggesting any
additional investigation prior to the case being completed. Similarly, prior to BART decision-
makers’ determination as to whether the evidence indicates a violation of policy, OIPA would
offer independent recommendations on investigative outcomes. Finally, on founded cases, OIPA
would present its recommendations with regard to the appropriate level of discipline. While
BART PD would have ultimate authority regarding each of these internal decisions, OIPA’s real
time involvement in these decisions would likely make its input more impactful than the “after
the fact” interaction currently deployed.12

In addition to providing quality assurance in real time for thorough investigations and evidence-
based determinations on outcomes, OIPA could and should weigh in on other important
investigative decisions. Sometimes, allegations of misconduct implicate potential crimes. The
decision whether to forward such allegations to the District Attorney is one in which OIPA
should participate. Additionally, under this approach, OIPA could play a helpful role in the
proper scoping of investigations.

As importantly, OIPA should document and report on its auditing function. Currently, there is
no detailed report of OIPA’s auditing of BART PD cases, and the data reported regarding
discipline and the outcomes by investigating agency (i.e., OIPA versus IA) is unclear. If OIPA
decides to transition its current auditing function into real-time monitoring, it should
significantly enhance its reporting of this function to the BART Police Citizen Review Board,
the Board of Directors, and the public. OIPA should set out a narrative of each case audited,
whether it found the investigation adequate, any input made by OIPA regarding improving the
investigations, the disposition, and, in founded cases, the discipline imposed. OIPA should also
report on the degree to which it concurred or disagreed with BART PD’s case determinations.
This increased level of transparency would provide stakeholders an important window into the
Police Department’s accountability system and an independent assessment of its vibrancy. 13

Recommendation Two: OIPA should consider modifying its monitoring function of BART PD
internal affairs investigations to “real-time” monitoring, offering recommendations on the
strength of investigations and appropriateness of dispositions prior to BART PD completing
the process.




12
  We have been informed that, to the credit of the former Chief, occasionally OIPA had been
asked in real time to provide input regarding investigative or disposition determinations by
BART PD. Our recommendation is for a more comprehensive expansion of this encouraging
dynamic.
13
  We leave to OIPA to determine based on its resources what portion of BART PD’s internal
investigations it could monitor in real time. One potential “bright line” suggestion would be to
monitor all internal investigations conducted by the Department’s Internal Affairs unit.

                                                13
Recommendation Three: Should OIPA move to real-time monitoring, it should be involved in
decisions regarding whether a matter should be forwarded to the District Attorney for criminal
review, and the appropriate scoping of an investigation.

Recommendation Four: OIPA should make its reported data on investigations and
recommended discipline clearer and should publicly report its involvement and auditing
functions in detail, setting out its assessment of the quality of each investigation and the
appropriateness of each disposition and disciplinary determination. The Model should be
modified to provide OIPA the express authority to report any resistance by BART PD to
conduct additional investigation to the attention of the Board of Directors, the General
Manager, the BART Police Citizen Review Board, and the public.

                                      C. Making the Complaint Process Available to All

The Model Should Be Revised to Allow Any Person to File a Complaint with OIPA or the
BART Police Citizen Review Board Against Any BART Employee.

Currently, the Model provides for a very limited universe of persons who may file a complaint
with OIPA or the BART Police Citizen Review Board. Only “victims of on-duty police
misconduct, a victim’s parent or guardian or a witness to misconduct” are permitted to file
complaints against “a BART police officer.” The Model’s limitation on who qualifies as a
complainant has led to circumstances in which OIPA has been handcuffed in its ability to
investigate concerning incidents.

In one recent case, a widow of a person who died in custody did not qualify as a “complainant”
under the Model’s definition. And in another case, a concerning use of force incident that
occurred on a train platform, was captured on video, was uploaded on You Tube, and received
thousands of views but did not qualify for OIPA purview because a qualified complainant did
not file with the Auditor.

There is no rational justification for denying access to any individual who desires to file a
complaint with BART’s oversight entities. In fact, progressive oversight entities even allow
receipt of anonymous complaints. In addition, for the reasons discussed above, OIPA should
have clear authority to investigate complaints against any BART PD employee, not just police
officers.

Recommendation Five: The Model should be revised to provide any persons the ability to file a
complaint with OIPA and/or the BART Police Citizen Review Board against any BART PD
employee.

                                      D. Enhancing OIPA Investigations

The Model Should Be Revised to Provide OIPA the Discretion to Investigate Any
Complaint Received.

Currently, the Model provides OIPA the authority to investigate “all complaints of allegations of
police officer misconduct regarding unnecessary or excessive use of police force, racial profiling,
sexual orientation bias, sexual harassment, and the use of deadly force, suspicious and wrongful

                                                14
deaths.” It is inconsistent with progressive oversight practices to limit OIPA’s investigative
authority to these categories. Instead of setting out what OIPA “can do,” the Model should
provide OIPA the discretion and authority to investigate any complaint received.

Recommendation Six: The Model should be revised to provide OIPA the ability to investigate
any allegation of misconduct that implicates the policies of BART PD.14

OIPA and BART PD Should Consider New Investigative Models Designed to Create
Efficiencies and Avoid Duplicative Investigations.

Currently, when OIPA determines to investigate a complaint and proceeds with its investigation,
BART PD conducts its own investigation into the same allegations. This paradigm results in two
investigations of the same allegation with the same purpose – to determine whether the facts
indicate a violation of BART PD policies. In addition to the inefficiencies of having two
investigations being conducted for the same purpose, such an investigative scheme has the
potential of requiring the complainant, witnesses, and involved officers to be interviewed twice,
with any inconsistencies being used to undermine the investigation if a disciplinary
determination is challenged. Moreover, the existence of two investigations with separate review
criteria could lead to disparate results based on the same set of facts.

For these reasons, we recommend that OIPA and BART PD examine the possibility of
developing an investigative paradigm whereby the Auditor has initial review authority on
complaint allegations made to his Office. In those cases, the Auditor should determine whether
to investigate the case or refer all or some of the allegations to BART PD for investigation. Any
allegations referred to BART PD should be monitored by OIPA. BART PD should defer any
investigation of allegations assumed by OIPA. Such a paradigm would eliminate the
inefficiencies of two investigations undertaken for the same purpose and the potential negative
consequences discussed above.

Recommendation Seven: OIPA and BART PD should develop an investigative paradigm
whereby OIPA would determine whether to investigate any complaint allegations received
initially by the Office and BART PD would defer investigating allegations that the Auditor
opted to investigate.

OIPA Should Develop an Investigative Handbook.

Too frequently, investigative authority is provided to entities with little guidance or direction on
how to exercise that authority. This has proven true in our experience regarding police agencies
and their internal review processes, and oversight agencies are often susceptible to the same

14
   To the degree that our recommendations provide clear authority for OIPA to investigate
allegations of misconduct, it may become necessary for the Auditor and BART PD to work out
protocols regarding which entity investigates which allegations. One “bright line” rule that may
work is for the entity that initially receives the allegation to take the investigative lead. We are
confident, however, that OIPA and the Police Department will be able to work out these
jurisdictional questions.

                                                 15
omissions. OIPA apparently falls within this paradigm. While, to its credit, OIPA did create
investigative templates and standard formatting for its investigations, principles of investigation
were not set out in any handbook or manual. Such a handbook is particularly important for
internal investigations of police officers, given the unique substantive elements and the
distinctive framework of statutory requirements set forth in California’s “Police Officer’s Bill of
Rights.”

An investigative handbook that codified basic principles would help ensure that OIPA
investigations were conducted consistent with best internal investigative practices.15 Moreover,
the development of an investigative handbook should not create a substantial resource burden.
Our experience suggests that, while the handbook should be tailored to OIPA’s oversight
responsibilities for BART PD, universal investigative principles that already exist in handbooks
of other agencies could be easily incorporated into an OIPA version.

Recommendation Eight: OIPA should develop a handbook to provide guidance and
expectations for its internal investigations.

OIPA Should Develop Internal Guidelines Regarding Investigative Timelines for
Completion of an Investigation.

Under California law, in order for discipline to be imposed, a subject police officer generally
must be informed of the agency’s intent to discipline within a year of agency knowledge of the
investigation. For that reason, with some exceptions, internal investigations of police officers
need to be completed within a year of their initiation. While police agencies and oversight
entities imbued with investigative authority recognize this statutory requirement, many recognize
the interest in completing investigations well before the one-year deadline. There are several
reasons for this.

First, if an investigation languishes unnecessarily, the complainant and subject officer will not
receive timely notice of the result. More importantly, because most discipline is intended to be
remedial, a delayed investigation will result in the remediation also being delayed. Nor does the
quality of evidence tend to improve with age; on the contrary, memories fade and a delayed
investigation can undermine the gathering of accurate and complete recollections. Finally,
collateral issues such as consideration for promotion or special assignment can be unnecessarily
delayed for the subject officer during the pendency of unresolved investigations.

Fortunately, OIPA has established a history of being timely in completing its investigations, in
part because of its relatively small caseload. However, because the recommendations set out in




15
   While a qualitative review of OIPA’s internal investigations was not the focus of our inquiry,
we learned of one investigative technique that was concerning, namely the frequent use of
telephone interviews by OIPA. Investigative principles strongly favor in-person interviews
because of the natural limitations that exist if an interview is conducted over the telephone.

                                                16
this report envision a larger caseload for OIPA, it is important to establish formal protocols for
maintaining timeliness.16

Recommendation Nine: OIPA should set out investigative timelines in its internal protocols
that not only meet the statutory requirements but also reflect a commitment to prompt and
efficient resolution of cases.

The Model Should Be Amended so that OIPA’s Disciplinary Determinations Correspond to
Those Utilized by BART PD.

Currently, the Model states that OIPA is to recommend that the matter be “dismissed” at the
conclusion of an OIPA investigation in which the allegations are not supported by the evidence.
Such a finding is not a generally accepted outcome for internal investigations in California.
Rather, police agencies provide a menu of disposition options; for BART PD they are sustained,
not sustained, exonerated or unfounded.

We have been informed that, in practice, OIPA makes findings after its investigation consistent
with the four options available to BART PD. However, in order for the Model to conform to
current practice, the language should be revised accordingly.

Recommendation Ten: The Model should be clarified to reflect that upon the conclusion of an
OIPA investigation, OIPA should recommend a finding of sustained, not sustained,
exonerated, or unfounded.

OIPA Should Revise its Closing Letters to Provide the Complainant as Much Information
as Legally Permissible.

At the conclusion of an internal investigation, OIPA prepares a closing letter informing the
complainant of the results. Consistent with many closing letters we have reviewed, OIPA’s
closing letters are brief and provide little detail about the underlying investigation. Instead, the
notification letter simply reports the outcome without explaining the basis for the decision or the
nature of the investigative process. Complainants whose allegation is not proven (i.e.,
exonerated, unfounded, or not sustained) are left wondering about the thoroughness of the
investigation and the legitimacy of the result.

California law provides restrictions on the type of information that can be provided to a
complainant. Those restrictions, for example, have been interpreted to bar the agency from
providing precise information about the disciplinary action taken. However, there is room under
the law to give complainants more insight into the process. There is no prohibition, for example,
on providing the number of witnesses interviewed, or whether video or audio evidence existed
and was reviewed. By sharing this information, and otherwise tailoring the notification to the
unique circumstances of the case, OIPA could move away from the type of “form letter”
response that can exacerbate disappointment and undermine trust in the process. Accordingly,


16
  We iterate that the ability to successfully keep to any internal timelines will be dependent on a
sufficient allocation of resources to OIPA.

                                                 17
OIPA should craft closing letters that offer insights into the process and the means by which the
result was reached.

Recommendation Eleven: OIPA should tailor its closing letters to each individual case and
provide the complainant additional information about the investigative steps taken to reach its
conclusion.

At the End of an Investigation, OIPA Should Consider Offering the Complainant the
Opportunity to View Video Evidence.

Because of the adoption of body-worn cameras and the other video surveillance available at
BART stations, there is a significant likelihood that the conduct complained about may be
captured by video evidence. Video evidence can be significantly dispositive of allegations made
against police officers. In cases in which video evidence exists and has contributed to the
decision not to sustain an allegation, it is recommended that OIPA offer the complainant the
opportunity to view the video, particularly when the complainant is the alleged victim of the
misconduct.17

Recommendation Twelve: When a concluded investigation does not result in a sustained
finding, OIPA should offer the complainant the opportunity to view any video account of the
incident.

                                      E. Improving the Disposition Process of OIPA
                                         Investigations

The Model Should Be Revised so that More Transparency is Provided Regarding the
BART Police Citizen Review Board’s Determination on Case Outcomes.

Currently the Model requires the Auditor to submit his findings to the BART Police Citizen
Review Board for consideration. Under current practice, the Review Board considers the
Auditor’s recommendations and votes in closed session regarding whether to agree or disagree
with those recommendations. The Model is silent about how that vote is reported. Current
practice is to report out the results of any vote and the vote count when not unanimous, but the
way in which individual Board members voted is not discernable.

While the case deliberation must remain private in accord with state law, there is no legal
prohibition on publicizing how each Review Board member voted. Moreover, when there is a
dissent, a rationale for the opposing votes should be crafted that could be made public.
Accordingly, and consistent with enhanced transparency, the Model should be revised to
stipulate that such information will be made public in the interest of providing further insight
into the process and outcomes.



17
  Competing privacy interests may prevail in cases in which the complainant is not the person
being captured on video and in those situations OIPA should use its discretion on whether to
offer to show the video evidence.

                                                18
There may be occasions where OIPA may be interested in presenting monitored BART PD cases
to the BART Police Citizen Review Board in order to receive input and feedback. Modifying the
Model to provide the Auditor flexibility and discretion to do so is consistent with the document’s
overarching interest in gaining meaningful feedback and input from the community-based
oversight entity.

Recommendation Thirteen: The Model should be revised to instruct that the BART Police
Citizen Review Board’s vote tally by member on the Auditor’s case recommendations and
findings should be made public. In cases in which a non-unanimous majority agrees with the
Auditor’s case recommendations and findings, the dissenters should set out their rationale for
diverging from the majority’s determination.

Recommendation Fourteen: The Model should be revised to provide the Auditor the discretion
to present BART PD internal investigations to the BART Police Citizen Review Board in order
to receive input and feedback.

The Model Should Be Revised to Provide More Clarity Regarding Process When BART’s
Chief Disagrees with OIPA/BART Police Citizen Review Board’s Recommendation.

Currently the Model states that, should the BART Chief of Police disagree with the findings and
recommendations of the Auditor and the BART Police Citizen Review Board, the Chief has the
ability to appeal the determination to the General Manager in a confidential personnel meeting.
The Model further states that the General Manager shall then make a decision and convey his/her
decision to the Chief, Auditor, and the BART Police Citizen Review Board. The Model then
instructs the Chief to implement the General Manager’s decision.

We have been informed that this process has been used at least twice in the six-year existence of
BART’s oversight system. Based on recollection, we learned that in both cases, the Chief
communicated with the General Manager’s Office, pursuant to the Model, and the General
Manager decided to accept the Chief’s recommendations.

As implemented and as the current Model suggests, the appeal process has to date amounted to
an ex parte meeting between the Chief and the General Manager. In that process, the General
Manager only apparently heard the arguments put forth by the Chief; neither the Auditor nor the
BART Police Citizen Review Board had an opportunity to be heard or to rebut the Chief’s
arguments. Moreover, because there was no public accounting of this process, there was no
record of the Chief’s reason for disagreement or the rationale for the General Manager accepting
the Chief’s view over those of the oversight entities.

In common law jurisprudence, most “appeal” processes consist of a forum where the appealing
party submits arguments in writing, all other parties submit papers in response to the moving
party and all parties can be heard in a meeting. Moreover, the decision-maker generally affords
each party the opportunity to respond to any arguments put forward by the “appealing” party at
the meeting. However, under the current plain language of the Model and apparent practice, the
Chief of Police has the apparent ability to present his arguments to the General Manager without
any opportunity for the Auditor or the BART Police Citizen Review Board to be heard.


                                               19
The Model should be revised to explicitly provide for an opportunity for the Auditor and a
representative (e.g., the chair) of the BART Police Citizen Review Board to have seats at the
General Manager’s meeting with the Chief in order to be able to listen to the Chief’s arguments
and to respond to them accordingly.18 Such a process will provide the General Manager the
opportunity to hear from all impacted parties and be able to make a better-informed
determination based on input from each of them. The Model should also be revised to require
the Auditor to publicly report on the outcome of any such appeals consistent with state law.

Recommendation Fifteen: The Model should be changed to require the Chief to timely put
forward the reasons and arguments for appeal in writing and provide the Auditor and the
Chair of the BART Police Citizen Review Board the opportunity to respond in writing, to be
present at any appeal meeting, and to respond to any additional arguments set forth by the
Chief at the appeal meeting. The Model should be further revised to require the General
Manager to set out her/his findings in writing.

Recommendation Sixteen: The Model should be changed to require the Auditor to publicly
report the results of any such appeal meeting consistent with state law confidentiality
requirements.

The Model Should Be Revised so that the Chief of Police Does Not Determine Disputes
Between the Auditor and the BART Police Citizen Review Board on Case Outcomes.

Currently the Model states that in cases in which the BART Police Citizen Review Board
disagrees with the Auditor and fail to come to a consensus, the Review Board and the Auditor
are to appeal the disagreement to the Chief of Police for a determination. Under the current
model, the Chief then listens to both parties and determines whether to accept either the Review
Board or the Auditor’s findings.

Under the current language of the Model, the potential exists for an untenable situation in which
the head of the agency subject to oversight is empowered to be the initial decision-maker when
the two oversight entities disagree on outcome.19 A more appropriate dispute resolution process
would be for the General Manager to convene a meeting with the Auditor, the Chair of the
BART Police Citizen Review Board, and the Chief of Police. During that meeting, the General
Manager would hear the opposing positions of the oversight entities and render a disposition
determination accordingly.

Recommendation Seventeen: The Model should be changed so that when the BART Police
oversight entities disagree on a case disposition, the General Manager will convene a meeting
and, after receiving input from the oversight entities and the Chief of Police, render a
disposition determination.

18
  Moreover, in order for the envisioned process to effectively work, the Chief must timely
present any appeal to the General Manager.
19
 We have been informed that, to date, this provision has not been applied in an actual case.
While this is fortunate, the potential for such a circumstance obviously continues to exist.

                                               20
The Model Should Be Modified to Allow Complainants to Appeal to OIPA Any BART PD
Internal Affairs Findings.

Currently the Model provides complainants the right to appeal to OIPA the findings of an
internal investigation conducted by BART PD regarding “on-duty incidents.” There is scant
rationale for so limiting appellate rights of complainants.

Recommendation Eighteen: The Model should be revised to provide complainants the right to
appeal to OIPA the findings of any internal affairs investigation conducted by BART PD.

Complainants Should Be Informed as a Matter of Course of Their Right to Appeal BART
PD Internal Affairs Findings to OIPA.

We have been informed that the right to appeal BART PD IA findings to OIPA has been used by
complainants only infrequently. One explanation for this may be complainants’ unawareness of
this option. Pursuant to state law, when BART PD closes an internal affairs investigation, it
informs the complainant of that event by letter. The closing letter could be used as an efficacious
way to make complainants aware of their right to appeal the findings to OIPA.

Recommendation Nineteen: BART and OIPA should work with BART PD to ensure that the
Police Department’s required notification letter to the complainant regarding case outcome
also informs the complainant of his/her right to appeal the finding to OIPA.

Recommendation Twenty: OIPA should regularly report on the number of appeals received
and the results of those appeals.

The Model Should Be Revised to Protect all Disposition and Disciplinary Decisions from
Unprincipled Changes at the End of the Process.

Currently, the Model simply states that any discipline recommended shall be subjected to an
administrative hearing prior implementation to address the “due process” rights of public
employees. However, the Model does not articulate a role for either oversight entity in the post-
disciplinary processes that currently exist.

Prior to the actual imposition of discipline, BART employees have the ability to argue that any
decision is not supported by the evidence or is inappropriate or otherwise unfair. Currently, the
Chief of Police has the ability to modify the initial determination and rescind charges or
discipline as he sees fit. As a result, the potential exists for initial disciplinary findings by the
oversight entities to be entirely undone by the Chief with neither notice nor opportunity for input
from them. The Model’s silence on oversight’s role in post-disciplinary appellate processes
creates a huge hole in the process that must be filled in order to ensure the effectiveness of
oversight.

One easily implemented remedy would be to add a provision to the Model requiring the Chief to
consult with the Auditor prior to modifying any disposition or discipline decision. If the
employee has raised principled reasons during the post-discipline process for a modification, the
Auditor should obviously be open to the Chief’s proposed amendments. Conversely, the Auditor
should have the opportunity to resist changes in outcome that do not seem to have a reasonable

                                                 21
basis. If the proposed change is sufficiently significant in its impact on accountability, the
Auditor should request a meeting with the General Manager prior to the change being
effectuated. The Model should also require the Auditor to report on any post-disciplinary
changes in disposition and discipline and whether he agreed with the modifications.20

After a disciplinary determination has been made, BART PD employees have the ability to
appeal to an arbitrator. BART is required in this forum to establish the policy violation and
discipline, and any determination by the arbitrator is binding on the parties. Again, our
experience with other jurisdictions is that prior or during these proceedings, the Chief and entity
may be approached by representatives of the employee with an offer to settle the case. The
settlement offer is usually an agreement by the employee to drop the appeal in exchange for a
lessening or removal of the disciplinary determination. Without the oversight entity’s input in
these settlement offers, the potential exists for a settlement that undermines accountability.

Again, an easy remedy exists. The Model should require input from the Auditor before any
settlement agreement is struck between BART and the appealing employee. Should the Auditor
determine that the settlement offer was unreasonable and undermined accountability, the Auditor
should be able to convene a meeting with the General Manager for a final determination
regarding the settlement offer. Finally, the Model should require the Auditor to report on any
disciplinary determinations that are settled, whether he was consulted, and whether he agreed
with the decision to settle the case.

The arbitration process itself is beyond the authority of OIPA but nonetheless warrants attention
as an important influence on its work. Arbitration hearings test the strength of internal
investigations and disposition determinations and can uncover potential weaknesses in those
processes. In addition, an arbitrator has the authority to rescind even termination cases and order
the agency to return the police officer to work – a power that is worthy of public awareness and
scrutiny.

During our review, we were informed of at least one instance in which a BART police officer
was returned to work after being initially terminated by the Department for a serious violation.
However, because the Model sets out no role for its oversight entity in these processes, the
Auditor did not review or assess the reason for the decision to return this terminated employee to
BART employ. As importantly, the Model did not contemplate a public accounting of this
decision as part of the Auditor’s transparency responsibilities. This should be addressed.

Recommendation Twenty-One: The Model should be revised to require the Chief of Police to
consult with the Auditor prior to modifying any initial disposition or disciplinary
determinations. The Model should provide the Auditor an appeal process to the General
Manager should he believe that any modification would result in a serious erosion of

20
   We were informed of one case in which a BART police officer originally received notice that
he was to be terminated for a serious infraction that was investigated by the Police Department.
However, that decision was reversed during the grievance process and the employee was
returned to work. The appropriateness of this decision notwithstanding, this is the type of case
that OIPA should be reporting on publicly.

                                                 22
accountability. The Model should require the Auditor to publicly report on any modification
of an initial disposition or disciplinary modification and whether he agreed with the
modification.

Recommendation Twenty-Two: The Model should be revised to require BART to apprise
OIPA of any offers to settle cases after discipline has been imposed and provide the Auditor an
opportunity for consultation. The Model should provide the Auditor the opportunity to appeal
any intention to settle the matter to the General Manager should the Auditor find that the
settlement would amount to a serious erosion of individual accountability. The Model should
require the Auditor to publicly report on any cases settled at the post-discipline stage and
whether OIPA agreed with the decision to settle.

Recommendation Twenty-Three: The Model should be revised to require the Auditor to report
on any arbitration determinations that modify or rescind initial disposition and disciplinary
decisions and to evaluate the reasons for any modification. The Model should require the
Auditor to identify any systemic issues that formed the basis for any modification and work
with BART PD to remediate those issues.

OIPA Should Report Publicly the Results of Any Completed Investigation.

While currently OIPA provides some information regarding completed investigations, we
recommend that its reporting be modified to include a narrative of the allegation, the results of
the investigation, whether the BART Police Citizen Review Board agreed with OIPA’s
recommendation, whether the Chief agreed with the proposed disposition, and whether there
were any post-disciplinary changes to the initial disposition. In most cases, the reporting should
begin when the investigation is initiated, with additional information being included as the
process moves forward. Consistent with state law requirements, identifying information about
the case or officers involved should not be included.

Recommendation Twenty-Four: OIPA should publicly report on every investigation from
inception to conclusion, providing information about the case result and the degree to which
OIPA and the BART Police Citizen Review Board recommendations were implemented.

                                      F. Additional Risk Management Role for OIPA.

OIPA Should Be Expressly Authorized to Review Any Claim, Civil Complaint, and Law
Suit Settlements and Judgments.

When an individual believes he or she has been aggrieved by police officers, the person can file a
complaint with the agency and/or oversight entity. Some persons, however, seek relief through
the courts and file a claim or lawsuit instead. Depending on how the concern is received, the
entity’s response may be entirely different. Complaints filed with the agency or oversight entity
are investigated as personnel matters, while the evidence-gathering for litigation has a different
and inherently defensive orientation. We understand this dichotomy but see it differently – or at
least more broadly. Among other things, a claim or lawsuit is essentially a “citizen complaint
with a price tag attached.” If a jurisdiction handles these matters solely in litigation mode, it may
overlook important questions of potential misconduct or resist the kind of investigation that
might produce unwanted evidence.
                                                 23
For that reason, leading oversight entities routinely review claims and lawsuits to ensure that
such an appropriate internal inquiry does occur in addition to other responses. In a similar vein,
oversight entities monitor civil litigation to identify potential individual officer performance
issues as well as systemic issues that may be unsurfaced. In cases resulting in significant
settlements or adverse judgments, the oversight entity is often involved with the agency in
developing a corrective action plan designed to remediate any of those issues.

In large part, because the Model did not specify a role for OIPA in these matters, it has not been
involved in reviewing the civil litigation from an oversight and risk management perspective.
OIPA should expressly be provided such authorization so that it can perform this important
function.

Recommendation Twenty-Five: OIPA should be provided authority to review claims and
lawsuits to ensure allegations of misconduct are thoroughly investigated.

Recommendation Twenty-Six: OIPA should review any significant settlements and adverse
judgments involving BART PD performance and work with BART PD to develop corrective
actions intended to remediate any systemic issues.

Recommendation Twenty-Seven: OIPA should report publicly on its work in reviewing civil
litigation.

                                      G. Developing a Mediation Program

OIPA Should Redouble its Efforts to Develop a Robust Mediation Program.

The Model expressly sets out a role for the Auditor in developing a mediation program. It states
expressly that OIPA “shall develop a voluntary alternative dispute resolution process for
resolving those complaints which may most appropriately be corrected or modified through less
formal means.” The Model also contemplated that the BART Police Citizen Review Board and
BART Police Associations would be part of the development process.

Nonetheless, in four years there has yet to be a case that has gone through a mediation process.
While a few individual instances have come close, participants withdrew from the process at the
eleventh hour.

Mediation – where involved parties can safely and productively articulate different viewpoints
with a neutral arbiter – provides a process consistent with contemporary principles of restorative
and procedural justice. The key to developing an effective mediation program is to make the
process worthwhile to all participants, and departments have often faced challenges in getting
officers to see the benefits. While these challenges are real, the experience of agencies in other
jurisdictions shows they are surmountable. OIPA should examine these other jurisdictions to
gain ideas for achieving a successful program. BART PD also should be more engaged in
working with OIPA and the Police Associations to consider additional incentives for police
officers to engage in mediation.




                                                24
Recommendation Twenty-Eight: OIPA should redouble its efforts to create a mediation
process that is attractive to complainants and officers and provides an effective alternative
dispute resolution process.

                                       H. Ensuring Prompt OIPA Notification of All Critical
                                          Incidents

OIPA Should Receive Notification as to All Critical Incidents.

Currently, the Model provides that the Auditor shall be notified immediately regarding an
officer-involved shooting that results in the death or serious bodily injury to a member of the
public or a police officer so that the Auditor can respond in real time to the investigative scene.
The current language of the Model restrictively limits notification of OIPA to only uses of
deadly force that result in death or serious bodily injury.21 While a shooting that does not result
in serious injury or loss of life has less significant consequences for the involved parties, a non-
hit shooting or one that results in minor injury still involved a decision by the officer to use
deadly force, and that decision is worthy of the same scrutiny. Additionally, the notification
protocol does not expressly include other uses of force that result in death or serious injury, or
incidents in which an off-duty officer may take police action and use deadly force.

We have been informed that, to the credit of BART PD, it has been regularly informing OIPA of
a broader set of critical incidents that do not fit squarely within the Model’s language. While
BART PD’s voluntary approach is praiseworthy, the Model should be modified so that it is clear
to all that notification of OIPA should occur for a broader category of incidents.

Recommendation Twenty-Nine: The Model should be enhanced to ensure that OIPA is timely
notified of any critical incident including all officer-involved shootings (on duty or off duty)
regardless of whether the use of deadly force resulted in injury or death, any use of force
resulting in significant injury, and any in-custody death.

                                       I. Enhancing OIPA’s Footprint Regarding Use of
                                          Force

The Auditor Should Be Regularly Reviewing Uses of Force by BART Police Officers.

In order for peace officers to perform their public safety function they are provided unique
authority. In addition to being provided the power to arrest, police are provided the authority to
use force when necessary. This authority, however, must be strictly limited and its exercise
carefully scrutinized in light of the Constitution, the law, and internal policy. As a result, police
officers are required to report when they use force, and command staff of the agency has a
responsibility to review the policy and legal appropriateness of these incidents.

Because of the inherent seriousness of force incidents, and the profound ramifications of misuse
or abuse of this police power, independent oversight should be significantly involved in

21
  The subheading of the Model is entitled “On-Duty Officer Involved Shooting Incidents,”
suggesting that there is no need to notify OIPA of off-duty uses of deadly force.

                                                 25
monitoring force. Currently, except for some officer-involved shootings, OIPA’s review of force
incidents is limited to situations when a “qualified person” complains of force. As a result, both
significant and minor force incidents escape the purview of BART’s oversight entity and are not
subjected to outside independent review.

OIPA should be afforded the opportunity to review every force incident and determine whether
the force should be the subject of an internal affairs investigation. OIPA should also review the
force to determine whether other issues are implicated for the involved officers or the
Department as a whole. OIPA should work with BART PD to ensure that each force incident is
reviewed with an eye toward identifying systemic issues such as training, equipment,
supervision, and policy.

We also understand that BART PD convenes use of force review boards that examine significant
force incidents. OIPA should regularly participate in those review boards to provide an
independent perspective and to help assess individual performance and conduct as well as
identify systemic issues. Finally, OIPA should regularly report on its involvement in the force
review process and on any critical incidents.

Recommendation Thirty: The Model should be revised to provide OIPA the authority for and
responsibility of reviewing use of force incidents by BART PD, regardless of whether the
incident is a subject of a complaint.

Recommendation Thirty-One: OIPA should regularly participate in BART PD’s use of force
review boards.

Recommendation Thirty-Two: OIPA should report publicly on its use of force review program
including the outcome of BART PD’s use of force review boards.

Recommendation Thirty-Three: OIPA should report publicly on the internal review of any
officer-involved shootings, in-custody deaths, or serious uses of force.

                                     J. Mapping Out a Significant Role for the Auditor in
                                        BART PD’s Early Identification System

OIPA Should Be Involved in the Early Identification System.

We have been informed that BART PD continues to develop an early identification system. This
system is intended to use relevant data to identify police officers who may be displaying patterns
of conduct that need to be addressed before they become a problem for the officer, the agency,
and/or the public. For example, an early identification system may reveal an officer who uses
force significantly more frequently than his or her counterparts on the shift – a potential “red
flag” that could make further scrutiny worthwhile. The resultant intervention is intended to be
remedial rather than punitive and might use mentoring, closer supervision, or other non-punitive
strategies tailored to help mitigate or fix identified concerns.

Our experience is such programs are not only potentially beneficial, but also that independent
oversight can be a helpful resource in their development, implementation, and execution.
Currently, there is no role for OIPA in the Department’s early identification system; we are

                                                26
confident that setting out a distinct role for an independent voice will strengthen the system that
BART PD has been developing.

Recommendation Thirty-Four: The Model should be revised to provide authority and
responsibility for OIPA to regularly participate in BART PD’s early identification process.

Recommendation Thirty-Five: OIPA should report regularly on the status of the Department’s
early identification system and results.

                                       K. Increasing OIPA’s Role as Auditor

The Model Should Be Modified to Increase the Auditing Function of the Independent
Police Auditor.

While the professional oversight entity for BART PD is named the Independent Police Auditor,
most of its work to date has been not auditing but investigating complaints. This incongruity
stems, in large part, because the Model does not clearly define the auditing role for the
Auditor.22As a result, OIPA has not conducted systemic audits of vital police functions. Other
jurisdictions with robust oversight regularly conduct audits of their responsible police agencies,
including the following areas:

        Recruiting and hiring practices
        Background investigations
        Supervisor performance
        Email, MDC and texting reviews
        Academy and in-service training
        Performance evaluations
        Promotional and special assignment processes
        Potential bias-based policing in stops or searches
        Stop and frisk practices
        Complaint intake procedures
        Appropriate use of the disciplinary matrix
        Transparency and public reporting of data by the police agency
        Crisis intervention practices and/or interactions with the homeless
        Police Department outreach
        Use of lock-ups
        Assessing compliance with precepts set out in pillars of 21st Century Policing




22
  For example, one lost opportunity was that no role was created in the Model for OIPA to audit
and report on BART PD’s progress on implementing the recommendations set forth by the
NOBLE report referred to above.

                                                 27
These oversight entities publicly report on the results of those audits.23 Those same jurisdictions
often monitor systems audits conducted by the police agencies themselves and publicly report on
the results of those audits.

The Model should be revised so that OIPA is provided authority and responsibility to conduct
systemic audits of BART PD functions that impact the quality of the Department and the service
provided to its public. Similarly, the Model should provide OIPA the authority and
responsibility of monitoring internal audits conducted by BART PD and to publicly report the
results of those audits.24

Recommendation Thirty-Six: The Model should be revised to provide OIPA the authority,
access to data and records, staffing, and responsibility to conduct systemic audits of BART PD
functions that impact the quality of the Department and the service provided to its public.

Recommendation Thirty-Seven: The Model should be revised to provide OIPA the authority
and responsibility to monitor any audits conducted by BART PD regarding similar issues and
report publicly the results of those audits.

                                      L. Expanding OIPA’s Role in Policy Development

The Model Should Explicitly Authorize OIPA to Be Involved in BART PD-Initiated Policy
Development.

The current Model expressly authorizes the Auditor to develop specific recommendations
concerning “General Orders and Directives, procedures, practices, and training” intended to
improve “professionalism, safety, effectiveness, and accountability” of BART PD employees.
To its credit, OIPA has made policy recommendations – for example, it most recently suggested
changes to the way in which BART PD deals with panhandlers. However, OIPA has had little
involvement in policy and training changes initiated by BART PD.25 Our experience is that the
most efficacious method of policy development is to have the police incorporate the feedback
and input of oversight entities at an early stage, rather than the presentation of a “finished”
product for review at the end of the process.




23
  We were informed that the recently retired Chief requested OIPA to conduct an audit of
background investigation files, but that the project was halted because of disagreement regarding
the Auditor’s access and authority.
24
  The increased role we recommend for OIPA in auditing, reporting, and real-time monitoring of
BART PD IA cases will likely result in a need to provide additional resources to the Auditor.
The Board of Directors, the General Manager, and OIPA should work jointly to determine the
degree to which additional resources will be needed to perform these additional functions.
25
  For example, BART PD recently developed language intended to modify its use of force
policy; OIPA had no involvement in its initial development.

                                                28
Recommendation Thirty-Eight: The Model should be revised to provide OIPA the authority
and responsibility to be involved in any policy or training initiatives being developed by BART
PD and to report publicly on any reforms.

The Model Should Explicitly Authorize OIPA to Forward Any Policy Recommendations to
the General Manager and/or the Board of Directors.

While the Model currently authorizes the BART Police Citizen Review Board to forward any of
its policy recommendations to the General Manager and/or the Board of Directors, no similar
express language exists for OIPA. While we have been informed that in practice OIPA has been
provided the ability to forward policy recommendations it has made to these entities, it would be
advisable to revise the Model to expressly recognize this authority.

Recommendation Thirty-Nine: The Model should be revised to provide OIPA the express
authority to forward policy recommendations to the General Manager and/or Board of
Directors. In situations in which OIPA’s recommendations are not accepted by BART PD,
OIPA should consider whether to forward its recommendations for further consideration to
BART’s governing entity.

OIPA Should Ensure that the Public Is Informed on Status and Outcome of Policy
Recommendations.

Over the years, OIPA has developed thoughtful policy recommendations. However, there is no
“record” of the degree to which BART PD accepted and integrated those recommendations. For
example, in its 2012-13 annual report, OIPA set out in detail recommended changes to BART
PD’s recording policy. However, in the subsequent annual reports, there is no follow up on
whether BART PD accepted or rejected each of the recommendations.

Recommendation Forty: In its annual report, OIPA should include an update on any previous
outstanding recommendations and the degree to which the recommendations were endorsed
by the Review Board and accepted by BART PD.

                                     M. Ensuring Integration of Oversight in BART PD’s
                                        Policies and Practices

BART PD’s General Orders Should Include the Authorities and Responsibilities of its
Oversight Entities and a Provision Recognizing the Duty to Cooperate with those Oversight
Entities.

While the current General Orders and Directives of BART PD include some references to the
existence and responsibility of the Independent Police Auditor and the BART Police Citizen
Review Board, the specific responsibilities set out by the Model do not appear to be incorporated
into those Orders. BART PD General Orders should make specific reference to oversight and its
responsibilities. Moreover, BART PD’s Orders should inform its members of their responsibility
to cooperate and respect the role of its oversight entities.




                                               29
Recommendation Forty-One: BART and OIPA should work with BART PD to ensure that
BART PD’s General Orders incorporate the authority of its oversight entities and the duty of
members to cooperate in the execution of that authority.

                                     N. Ensuring Regular Dialogue Between Oversight and
                                        BART Police Associations

OIPA and the BART Police Citizen Review Board Should Develop Mechanisms to Ensure
At Least Annual Meets with the BART Police Associations.

The Model instructs both OIPA and the BART Police Citizen Review Board to meet
“periodically” and “seek input” from the BART Police Managers Association and the BART
Police Officers Association. We have been informed that while meetings may have occurred
during the first year and have been subsequently scheduled, actual meetings over the past few
years have been sporadic at best. We believe that there is value in having periodic meetings
between the oversight entities and those tasked with representing the interests of BART police
officers. For that reason, a meeting schedule should be devised by both oversight entities to
ensure there is an attempt to meet with both Police Associations at least annually. OIPA and the
Citizen Review Board should annually report on any meetings that are held with the Police
Associations.

Recommendation Forty-Two: OIPA and the BART Police Citizen Review Board should
attempt to schedule a meeting at least annually with the two BART Police Associations. The
oversight entities should annually report on whether such meetings occurred.

                                     O. Clarifying the Relationship Between OIPA and the
                                        BART Police Citizen Review Board

The Model Should Be Revised to Provide Further Guidance Regarding the Relationship
Between OIPA and the BART Police Citizen Review Board.

Consistent with oversight trends nationwide, BART’s oversight system includes a professional
oversight office and an oversight board appointed from the community. That paradigm has
resulted in OIPA being able to develop an expertise in police accountability practices adapted to
a police agency designed to police an extensive transit system and a Board selected from the
BART community that has a meaningful voice and role in both individual cases and systemic
reform.

While it is laudatory that the drafters of the Model recognized the value in having both police
practices experts and community members involved in providing oversight, more clarity is
needed in defining the relationship between the two entities. The Model should expressly
recognize that OIPA and the BART Police Citizen Review Board are to be considered as entities
with complementary oversight roles that are independent of each other.

Much of the source of confusion about the complementary oversight entities is that the Model
assigns the BART Police Citizen Review Board administrative tasks to OIPA. To eliminate this
overlap, BART should consider creating an Executive Assistant position to provide


                                               30
administrative support for the BART Police Citizen Review Board. The Executive Assistant
would assume the administrative functions now set out in Chapter 1-05 of the Model including:

      Records of Review Board meetings
      Preparation of Review Board reports
      Review Board staff support and facilitation of training
      Review Board community outreach and communicating with the public
      Application process for open Review Board seats

In addition to the administrative tasks expressly set out in the Model, the Executive Assistant
could also be responsible for assisting in developing the Review Board meeting agenda,
arranging Review Board training, coordinating Review Board outreach, assisting with Review
Board reporting responsibilities, and providing any additional administrative support for the
BART Police Citizen Review Board.

The Model currently states that the BART Police Citizen Review Board “shall assess and report
to the Board of Directors’ Personnel Committee on the performance and effectiveness” of OIPA.
We have been informed that this provision of the Model has not been implemented in practice.
The Auditor is subject to an annual performance review by the BART Board of Directors, the
appointing authority. In assessing that performance, the Board of Directors could and should
solicit input from several stakeholders, including the BART Police Citizen Review Board.
However, the Model should be modified to clarify that the BART Police Citizen Review Board
is not the “assessor” of the Auditor’s performance but simply another important source for input
to the Board of Directors.

Similarly, when a BART Police Citizen Review Board seeks reappointment to a new term, the
appointing Director should seek input from OIPA along with other important stakeholders on the
performance of that Review Board member.

Recommendation Forty-Three: The Model should be revised to expressly clarify the
independent yet complementary roles of the BART Police Citizen Review Board and OIPA.

Recommendation Forty-Four: BART should consider creating an Executive Assistant position
for the BART Police Citizen Review Board to assist with administrative tasks now assigned to
OIPA.

Recommendation Forty-Five: The Model should be revised to acknowledge that the BART
Police Citizen Review Board is one potential source of information when the Board of
Directors is seeking input on the performance of OIPA.

Recommendation Forty-Six: The Model should be revised to provide OIPA the opportunity for
input when a BART Police Citizen Review Board member seeks reappointment.

                                     P. Clarifying and Enhancing the Roles of the BART
                                        Police Citizen Review Board




                                               31
The Model should provide clarification of BART Police Citizen Review Board Member
Qualifications.

Currently the Model disallows from service on the BART Police Citizen Review Board any
person “currently employed in a law enforcement capacity” or any “relative of current and
former BART Police Department personnel.” While prohibiting relatives of current and former
BART PD personnel from serving, the Model does not expressly disallow former BART PD
personnel themselves from membership on the BART Police Citizen Review Board. The Model
should be revised to correct this incongruity.

Recommendation Forty-Seven: The Model should clarify that former BART PD personnel are
ineligible to serve on the BART Police Citizen Review Board.

BART Police Citizen Review Board Members Should Have Requisite Training in Order to
Fulfill Their Responsibilities.

By selecting BART Police Citizen Review Board members from the community, BART
oversight benefits from each member’s life experience and perspective. However, modern day
policing is increasingly complex, and BART PD itself has a unique role in providing public
safety for a large transit system. As detailed above, the BART Police Citizen Review Board has
been provided considerable authority, including the ability to consider and vote on the Auditor’s
recommendations regarding specific complaint investigation dispositions.26 This authority
carries with it a heavy burden of responsibility and the BART Police Citizen Review Board
cannot effectively exercise that authority regarding investigation dispositions without each
member undertaking a careful read of each case.27

Accordingly, in order to effectively carry out BART Police Citizen Review Board duties, each
member must be afforded a basic understanding of progressive police practices, constitutional
and state law, principles of civilian oversight, and BART PD’s distinctive challenges. The
training should also focus on how, as expressly stated in the Model, the BART Police Citizen
Review Board fulfills the “essential community involvement component” piece of the system
and how it can most effectively fulfill this role. To these ends, a training curriculum developed
for each new Review Board member, including ride-alongs, should be devised. In addition,
Review Board members should get additional training at least semi-annually, perhaps as an
agenda item during regularly scheduled meetings. As noted above, we recommend assignment
of an Executive Assistant to the Review Board; that individual could be responsible, with input
from the existing BART Police Citizen Review Board and the Auditor, for developing and
maintaining the BART Police Citizen Review Board’s training program.


26
  The Board of Directors should continue to be mindful of the weighty responsibilities
demanded of each Review Board member when making future appointments.
27
  Review Board members who have not had the opportunity to read the investigation and
accompanying materials should recuse themselves from deliberations and voting on the
Auditor’s recommendation for that particular case.

                                                32
Recommendation Forty-Eight: A Training Curriculum Should Be Devised For Incoming
BART Police Citizen Review Board Members, and In-Service Training Should Be Provided at
Least Semi-Annually to Current Review Board Members.

Rotating the Location of the BART Police Citizen Review Board Meetings Would Allow
the Review Board to Reach More Communities.

As noted above, BART PD is responsible for providing public safety for a transit system to
traverses multiple jurisdictions over a wide-ranging area. Yet the BART Police Citizen Review
Board responsible for oversight over this region only meets at one location. Community
members served must travel to this location to attend meetings and provide public comment.
While this challenge is ameliorated by the transit-friendly locale of the meetings, it would
demonstrate the Review Board’s responsiveness to other communities to rotate the meeting
locations. While such a rotation may provide some logistical challenges, it appears worth
exploring whether those hurdles can be overcome.

Recommendation Forty-Nine: The BART Police Citizen Review Board should consider
rotating its meetings to a wider array of locales served by BART.

The BART Police Citizen Review Board’s Outreach Should Be More Vibrant.

The current Model notes that the existence of the BART Police Citizen Review Board effectuates
the essential community involvement component of the oversight system. To advance that
crucial role, the Model expects that the BART Police Citizen Review Board will lead in outreach
efforts to the community, particularly constituencies impacted most by policing, including
communities of color, immigrant communities, and individuals with psychiatric disabilities.
While the Review Board’s regularly scheduled public meetings fulfills that role to some degree,
the Model certainly contemplated that more could and should be done in the outreach arena. We
gather from the BART Police Citizen Review Board’s annual reports that outreach has been
largely undertaken by a few members. However, outreach should be an expected responsibility
of all members of the Review Board.

To that end, before a Review Board member is appointed, the appointing authority should
emphasize the outreach expectation to the potential appointee. Moreover, at one year intervals,
the BART Police Citizen Review Board should place an item on the agenda in which each
member publicly reports on the outreach efforts he/she has undertaken. The degree to which a
member has engaged in public outreach should be considered by the appointing authority in
determining whether to reappoint the member to an additional term. The Executive Assistant
(recommended elsewhere) for the BART Police Citizen Review Board should track the outreach
efforts of individual members and the Review Board as a whole.

Recommendation Fifty: Procedures should be adopted by the BART Police Citizen Review
Board intended to ensure that the Model’s commitment to outreach is achieved. To that end,
each incoming member should be alerted to outreach expectations by his/her appointing
authority. On an annual basis, each Review Board member should report publicly on the
outreach he/she has undertaken the previous year. Finally, the degree of each member’s


                                              33
public outreach will be considered prior to reappointing the Review Board member to an
additional term.

The Model Should Provide More Flexibility for “Good Cause” Meeting Absences.

Currently, the Model calls for removal of any BART Police Citizen Review Board member who
misses more than three regularly scheduled meetings per year. While the interest in having
Review Board members attend meetings is well-placed, there may be situations where a member
has “good cause” to miss a meeting. For that reason, it would be advisable to provide each
Director with flexibility to excuse his/her appointed Review Board member’s absence for good
cause. Such excusal would not count against the absence limit requirements.

Recommendation Fifty-One: The Model should be revised to authorize excused absences for
good cause that would not count against the absence limitations.

                                      Q. Providing Increased Transparency Authority for
                                         BART Oversight

The BART Oversight Entities Should Be Expressly Authorized to Make Public Statements.

It is not uncommon for officer-involved shootings, in-custody deaths, significant force incident
or allegations of misconduct to engender immediate controversy and concern, particularly if part
of the incident is captured on videotape. In those cases, the existence of oversight entities can
assist in tempering that concern with the recognition that there will be an independent review and
accounting of the incident at the conclusion of any investigation. In recognition of this,
jurisdictions have provided their oversight entities full rein to make public statements about their
role in the wake of controversial incidents.

We have been informed that the Auditor has interpreted the Model to allow him the authority to
make public statements about his work and BART policing issues. That being said, the Model
should be revised to expressly authorize the Auditor freedom to make such statements.
Moreover, the Auditor should be free to speak with any media outlets about any aspect of
oversight and in conjunction with any public report or findings. The BART Police Citizen
Review Board’s ability to make timely public statements provides logistical challenges since the
Review Board meets as a body only periodically. However, the BART Police Citizen Review
Board should consider authorizing the Chair to make public statements on behalf of the Review
Board regarding role and process when an exigency to respond is presented.

Recommendation Fifty-Two: The Model should be revised to expressly authorize OIPA and
the BART Police Citizen Review Board to make public statements about their oversight work.

                                      R. Ensuring Periodic Review of BART Oversight

BART’s Oversight Entities Should Be Reviewed on a Regular Basis.

As noted above, the current Model provided for an assessment of oversight after one year of
implementation. Because the world of oversight is new and constantly evolving, there should be
a commitment to a periodic review of BART’s oversight entities on a going forward basis.

                                                34
Recommendation Fifty-Three: The Model should be revised to call for periodic reviews of
BART’s oversight entities at a minimum of four-year intervals.




                                            35
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 10:04 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Daniel Martin <danleemartin@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Saturday, March 17, 2018 12:37 AM
To:                              Billups, Janet
Cc:                              Council, City
Subject:                         Re: Claim Against the City form
Attachments:                     20180228 rejection of claim Palo Alto.pdf



Ms. Billups,

Attached is the rejection of my claim, for identification.

There is another large dead branch about to fall from the tree in front of our house, this one large enough to kill
someone, or once again cause significant vehicular damage. This is apparently an oversight of the arborists who
trimmed the trees about 6 months ago. With this note, it is more likely that a repeat episode will be classified as
a liability of the city.

In the handwritten note I left when I visited your office in late February, prior to rejection, I expressed my
dissatisfaction with the process for investigating my claim. The issues are as follows:

   1. I provided full information on the event when I first reported it in December. You could easily have told
      me that car damage from a falling city tree is not covered by city insurance.
   2. You have wasted your own time, my time, the damage appraisal fee, and the city attorney's time by not
      giving me this information up front. On the City side, that represents at least $2000 of taxpayer money,
      just to feed the claim through your system. I made several inquiries in follow up, before I was provided
      the claim rejection.
                    In this sense the City Attorney’s office is serving its own existence, rather than serving
                       the city and taxpayers
                    Why bother paying an appraiser come to my house and verify the damage I had reported,
                       if it is clearly outside that accepted as liability ?
   3. The response from the city was approximately 2 weeks late, beyond their required response time. This
      delayed my having repairs done on my car.
   4. The city has made no effort to inspect the trees on our street to determine if The falling branch damage
      is likely to recur in the near future.


Please notify the proper dept of CPA, to have the current falling branch threat addressed. If it would kill
someone, it would be much worse than my car damage.

Sincerely.
Dan Martin

1157 Harker Ave


       On Feb 26, 2018, at 10:58 AM, Billups, Janet <Janet.Billups@CityofPaloAlto.org> wrote:

                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 10:04 AM
       Mr. Martin,

       I’m still waiting for a response from the attorney. As soon as I have that I will contact you. I apologize
       for the delay.

       Regards,
        <image001.png> Janet Billups | Claims Investigator
                                Office of the City Attorney
                                250 Hamilton Avenue, 8th Floor | Palo Alto, CA 94301
                                O: 650.329.2171| F: 650.329‐2646
                                E: janet.billups@cityofpaloalto.org

       CONFIDENTIALITY STATEMENT: This message, together with any attachments is intended only for the use of the individual or
       entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the
       intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any review, dissemination or copying of this message or any attachment is
       strictly prohibited. If you have received this item in error, please notify the original sender and destroy this item, along with any
       attachments. Thank you.

       Please consider the environment before printing this email.


       From: Daniel Martin [mailto:danleemartin@gmail.com]
       Sent: Monday, February 26, 2018 1:50 AM
       To: Billups, Janet <Janet.Billups@CityofPaloAlto.org>
       Subject: Re: Claim Against the City form

       Any news? Maybe I can come by today.
       DM


                 On Dec 19, 2017, at 8:25 AM, Billups, Janet
                 <Janet.Billups@CityofPaloAlto.org> wrote:

                 Mr. Martin,

                 I received the claim you submitting via email. Please forward an original “wet
                 signature” claim form to the City Clerk, 250 Hamilton Avenue, 7th Floor, Palo
                 Alto. Emailed or faxed claims are not accepted.

                 Best regards,
                 Janet

                  <image001.png> Janet Billups | Claims Investigator
                                           Office of the City Attorney
                                           250 Hamilton Avenue, 8th Floor | Palo Alto, CA 94301
                                           O: 650.329.2171| F: 650.329‐2646
                                           E: janet.billups@cityofpaloalto.org

                 CONFIDENTIALITY STATEMENT: This message, together with any attachments is intended only for the use of
                 the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is confidential and
                 prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any review,
                 dissemination or copying of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have received this
                 item in error, please notify the original sender and destroy this item, along with any attachments. Thank
                 you.

                                                                         2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 10:04 AM

              Please consider the environment before printing this email.


              From: Daniel Martin [mailto:danleemartin@gmail.com]
              Sent: Monday, December 18, 2017 9:38 PM
              To: Billups, Janet <Janet.Billups@CityofPaloAlto.org>
              Subject: Re: Claim Against the City form

              Ms. Billups:

              Thank you for the information you provided on the telephone today regarding
              insurance claims against the city.

              Attached is the form with the information, and photos of the car before it was
              moved, after the tree damage. The Person carrying the tree branch is neighbor
              Larry Donnelly, who carried the branch away.

              The electronic form is filled out in red font, and I do not know how to change font
              color. I have provided a signed copy.

              I will get repair estimate. Please initiate the claim against city insurance. Please
              advise any further action required by me at this time.

              Best regards,
              Dan Martin
              650 867 0367
              1157 Harker Avenus


              <image002.jpg>
              <image003.jpg>
              <image004.jpg>
              <image005.jpg>
              <image006.jpg>
              <image007.jpg>
              <image008.jpg>
              <image009.jpg>
              <image010.jpg>
              <image011.jpg>




                       On Dec 18, 2017, at 2:48 PM, Billups, Janet
                       <Janet.Billups@CityofPaloAlto.org> wrote:

                       Dear Mr. Martin,




                                                                   3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 10:04 AM
                     Attached is a claim form and instruction letter. The furnishing to you of
                     a claim form is not an admission by the City of any liability. Feel free to
                     contact me if you have any questions.

                     Regards,
                     Janet Billups

                      <image001.png> Janet Billups | Claims Investigator
                                              Office of the City Attorney
                                              250 Hamilton Avenue, 8th Floor | Palo Alto, CA 94301
                                              O: 650.329.2171| F: 650.329‐2646
                                              E: janet.billups@cityofpaloalto.org

                     CONFIDENTIALITY STATEMENT: This message, together with any attachments is
                     intended only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may
                     contain information that is confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If you are not
                     the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any review, dissemination or
                     copying of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have received
                     this item in error, please notify the original sender and destroy this item, along with any
                     attachments. Thank you.

                     Please consider the environment before printing this email.

                     <Claim Form.pdf>




                                                                  4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 9:41 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Kenney Mencher <kenney.mencher@gmail.com>
Sent:                             Wednesday, March 14, 2018 8:47 PM
To:                               Borges, Paula; Council, City
Cc:                               Arp, Ron; Rice, Danille; Gaines, Chantal
Subject:                          Re: Email regarding waste containers



Dear Paula,

Thank you so much! This is awesome and exactly what I wanted thank you.



Kenney Mencher
Phone: (510) 390-3952
Kenney.Mencher@gmail.com

http://www kenney-mencher.com/
http://www.etsy.com/shop/kmencher
http://www.youtube.com/user/kmencher


On Tue, Mar 13, 2018 at 4:48 PM, Borges, Paula <Paula.Borges@cityofpaloalto.org> wrote:

 Dear Mr. Mencher,

 I received a copy of your email correspondence from March 12 regarding waste containers being left out in
 your neighborhood. We will look further into the issue and connect with the residents and/or property
 managers. I have the following locations are as being an issue:

 -   183 Everett

 -   Businesses at the corner of High and Everett Street

 -   Businesses at the corner of Alma and Everett

 -   Apartment complex on Hawthorne and High Street



 Please contact me if you have further questions.



 Sincerely,




                                                           1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 9:41 AM
               Paula Borges Fujimoto | Manager, Environmental Programs – Zero Waste

                Public Works Department | Environmental Services
                3201 East Bayshore Road | Palo Alto, CA 94303
                D: 650.496-5914 | E: paula.borges@cityofpaloalto.org




                                                              2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 10:15 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                            CeCi Kettendorf <cecihome@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Sunday, March 18, 2018 9:33 PM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         Removal of Mr. Alcheck from his position



Dear Council Members:

You are duty bound to remove Mr. Alcheck from his appointed post.
 At best his ethics are appalling as reflected in the recent expose' in both our local papers. At worst, his actions
are criminal.
It is a violation of the public trust for him to remain in his position on the PTC.
I would ask you to watch the PTC meeting from a week ago. His behavior was peculiar, bizarre and shameful
to the chamber.
Please unseat Mr. Alcheck. He should not be in a position of power and influence.

CeCi Kettendorf
Luke F. Brennan

3719 Grove Ave
Palo Alto, 94303




                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 9:41 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Jyotsna Nimkar <jnimkar@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Wednesday, March 14, 2018 8:06 PM
To:                             Architectural Review Board
Cc:                             Council, City; Clerk, City
Subject:                        Request to.deny approval to Verizon



Dear ARB,

I urge you to deny approval to Verizon's request unless all their battery and adjunct equipment is undergrounded
and does not create visual or sound pollution in our neighborhoods.
Thank you,
Jyotsna Nimkar




                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 9:58 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                               sherry heller <Sherry_Mark@yahoo.com>
Sent:                               Friday, March 16, 2018 9:09 AM
To:                                 Council, City
Subject:                            Ross Road


Dear Palo Alto City Council Members,

I had been communicating with Chris Corrao about the Ross Road bicycle blvd and how it feels so much less safe for my
6th grader to ride along it each day to and from school. I have watched him almost get side‐swiped by cars who pass
along next to him at the pinch points. I have also watched cars trail two‐feet behind him at the pinch points. What would
happen if he suddenly fell down?

Mr. Corrao assured me that when all the construction is complete, we should see a much safer street than what we had
before. He also assured me that he was continuing to monitor the progress of the blvd to make sure it was meeting
intended expectations. Now I have heard he is no longer with the City of Palo Alto. Hmm. I can’t say I am surprised he
left. Kind of like getting out of a burning building while you still can. But what about all the rest of us who are left stuck
with this mess?

I would like to ask each of you to come down to Ross Road at 7:45am and 3pm every day (and at 1:45pm on
Wednesdays) and watch our kids biking to and from school in the path of impatient drivers. Would you really feel
comfortable putting your child into the path of these cars? Yes, some people are driving slower. But if a child is injured
by one of the drivers who is not slowing down, and that child could have been out of that driver’s way on the old Ross
Road, what will your response be?

Thank you,
Sherry Heller

Sent from my iPad




                                                               1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/21/2018 12:46 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                                rogersac@aol.com
Sent:                                Wednesday, March 21, 2018 11:19 AM
To:                                  Council, City
Subject:                             Ross Road and adjacent streets.


Dear City Council

My name is Carol Rogers and I live at 3395 Stockton Place. I am a member of the YMCA and I regularly walk there as
well as walk around the neighbourhood including to my church on Middlefield Road.

I am sending this email to you because I am very concerned about the changes that have been made on Ross Road. I
have seen the bulbouts being constructed and am watching how the traffic and in particular the bike traffic deal with the
bumps (sleeping policemen) and the road narrowing. I have seen that traffic entering and exiting the Y car park is very
impacted and that there is damage to the kerbs and the plants in the bulbout on the north entrance/exits. I have also used
the roundabout on Meadow at Ross and find this a very difficult maneouvre due to the steep curve on the road along with
the narrowing of the roadway due to large bulbouts as well as traffic islands. I am from England so very familiar with
roundabout use, but this roundabout is very different from the small mini roundabouts we have which are often just
nothing more than raised painted circles which traffic uses to efficiently cross the roundabout while keeping roundabout
rules. The pedestrian traffic islands in England are also very different as they are used as pedestrian waiting areas so that
pedestrians cross each side as a separate road only needing to be alert about traffic coming in one direction at a time.
This particular roundabout has none of these features so in my opinion is very difficult for me to see as an improvement to
efficient traffic flow. I happen to believe that roundabouts are much more efficient and safe than four way stops or traffic
lights due to less time being wasted and the need to watch for traffic from one direction at the junction

There will always be a great deal of traffic on Ross because of the Y. The membership includes many people with mobility
issues who will not be able to walk or ride a bike there. Also the Y attracts people from quite a large area who will use
cars. There is also the added issue that many members go there on the way to or from work or other activities so they will
also need to come by car. Many of the staff live so far away that their car is necessary and with the hours the Y operates it
is not likely that public transport would suit them. Ross Road itself gets plenty of traffic from home delivery services
among others and those drivers are not always the same individuals who will become familiar with the constraints Ross
Road now holds.

My other big concern is what is happening to other roads as a result of the changes to Ross. I have not seen numbers
published of how many vehicles used Ross before the work started, but I presume you did a comprehensive traffic count
for a before and after analysis. I also have not seen any published vehicle counts done for Louis, Christine, Ames and
other streets that will be impacted by the changes. I personally do not like using Louis outside Palo Verde school when I
am driving as it seems wrong to me to add to the dangers of having additional traffic to those children who walk to school
there. My own children walked to Palo Verde and I felt that it was usually a very safe thing for them to do. However now
there is probably additional traffic due to Ross and I think that is not a good thing. I will be very interested to see the data
on the vehicle counts for Louis before and after the changes to Ross as well as the before and after vehicle counts to the
previous quiet cross streets of Ames, Christine and others.

Finally, I would mention that crossing Ross Road at Colorado, Loma Verde or Meadow is something I have to do
frequently to get to anywhere on Middlefield. Although I walk frequently, of course there are many times I have to drive
these streets. The traffic islands are narrow and can be troublesome for those who approach them without familiarity.
Many visitors and guests to my home have commented how unexpected they are. The particular design seems poor since
they are not designed for pedestrians to use as a waiting area while crossing the street and the narrowing makes little
sense, particularly if a bus has to turn. There is also the problem of the telephone box on Loma Verde which often
necessities utilities workers to set up a little camp while they work. It leaves very little space for safe negotiation of the
junction.

Please take these concerns into account as the work progresses on Ross. I believe there will be some type of accident as
a result of the changes.


                                                                1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/21/2018 12:46 PM
Sincerely.

Carol Rogers.
3395 Stockton Place.




                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/21/2018 8:15 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Emily Jaquette <ebreuner@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Wednesday, March 21, 2018 6:06 AM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        Ross Road changes need to be reversed



Dear City Council -

Recently I was driving a group of girls to Rick's for ice cream after their final basketball game for the
season. All were JLS student. As I pulled out of the YMCA, I had to cross into oncoming traffic because it was
not possible to make a right turn without doing so as I left the YMCA because of the new bulb outs. Seriously,
all council members should go attempt it to see what I am talking about.

As we approached the new roundabout at Ross Road and E Meadow on our way to Rick's, all the girls in car
told me that they now avoid the roundabout to get from their homes to JLS each day because it's so scary being
forced into traffic to get through it. Instead they ride up Louis Road, through Ramos park and up Mayfield to
cross Middlefield. Was your intent in spending millions to make Ross bike friendly that bikers actually avoid
using it?

Second, I heard from parent the other day that as he was driving down Ross Road, an oncoming truck sped up
to avoid the speed bump before this parent passed him. To this parent's horror, the truck avoided the speed
bump by crossing the middle line, straddling the two lanes and putting his tires in each of the divets in the speed
bumps in the middle of each lane meant for bikes. So the crazy design is actually causing unsafe driving
behavior!

Your effort to make Ross Road bike safe is a failure and the roundabout is unsafe.

Tear it out and for heaven's sake, DO NOT build any new ones.

I ride my bike to work at the District office at 25 Churchill most days. I enjoy using the clearly marked
Colorado road, and then the Bryant bike boulevard. Those are safe bike routes that required no ridiculous
roundabout to make them safer and did not cost several million dollars. Please - come to your senses and
reverse the madness!

Emily Jaquette




                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/21/2018 8:15 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                               Katherine Lose <klose01@comcast.net>
Sent:                               Tuesday, March 20, 2018 8:47 PM
To:                                 Council, City
Subject:                            Ross road modifications


Dear Council Members,
I live on Coastland Drive. I am horrified by the changes to Ross road. I do not ride a bike. I will never ride a bike. But I do
walk, a lot. I walk to California Ave. for dinner, to Midtown for errands|services and to walk 2 dogs. I am constantly on
the lookout for cars that will aggressively take my right of way crossing in a crosswalk at a stop sign or at a red light
when I get the walk sign. The changes to Ross road don’t even provide the cue of a stop sign or a red light to protect
pedestrians. I can’t imagine cars being willing to stop with no other cue than me standing there on the sidewalk in the
middle of a block. I am deliberating about giving up my membership to the Ross Road YMCA. I just don’t want to deal
with getting to and fro. I will depend more on Amazon to deliver goods to my house rather than drive thru my
neighborhood. It is particularly troubling that our neighborhood has yet to get underground utilities but the city spends
a huge amount of money on making our daily lives more difficult.

Respectfully,
Katherine Lose’

Sent from my iPhone




                                                               1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 9:44 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                          sarit schube <saritschube@gmail.com>
Sent:                          Thursday, March 15, 2018 10:01 AM
To:                            Council, City
Subject:                       Ross Road



I am writing to express my concern over the changes that are being made to Ross Road. I do not know the logic
behind them, but I do not feel safer now neither as a bicyclist nor as a driver of a car. Narrowing the street
makes everyone have less room to navigate it.
Sincerely,
Sarit Schube
3833 Corina Way




                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 10:01 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com>
Sent:                          Friday, March 16, 2018 5:36 PM
To:                            stephanie@dslextreme.com; Council, City
Cc:                            Bjohnson@embarcaderopublishing.com; supervisor.yeager@bos.sccgov.org;
                               sdremann@paweekly.com; essenceoftruth@gmail.com; roberta.ahlquist@sjsu.edu;
                               allison@padailypost.com; GSheyner@paweekly.com; emibach@padailypost.com;
                               jgreen@dailynewsgroup.com; apersky@scscourt.org; dryan@scscourt.org;
                               aflint@scscourt.org; bwalsh@scscourt.org; Van Der Zwaag, Minka; HRC;
                               smanley@scscourt.org; sscott@scscourt.org; mharris@scscourt.org
Subject:                       Speak out on Persky recall




              FYI:


              Please post your comments re your views on the Persky recall. See link below.
              We encourage everyone to post including members of the press, like the Palo
              AltoFree Press, members of the Palo Alto HRC, city council members, members
              of law enforcement.. you all have 1st Amendment rights, so here’s your chance to
              express your views. Go for it!! Don’t bite your tongue!!!


              Aram James


              http://archives.siliconvalleydebug.org/articles/2016/07/28/brock-turners-probation


              Sent from my iPhone




                                                      1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 10:08 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                Wen Xu <wendy_xu21cn@yahoo.com>
Sent:                                Saturday, March 17, 2018 8:19 PM
To:                                  Architectural Review Board
Cc:                                  Council, City; Clerk, City
Subject:                             Verizon cell tower?!


Hello,

I'm a Palo Alto resident and a tax-payer, who very much appreciate this well-cared-for town and neighborhood. I recently learned
about a proposal by Verizon to construct cell towers in residential neighborhoods of Palo Alto. Please do not approve the proposal
without a) asking Verizon to have all the equipment except the antenna to be located completely underground and b) comply
with Palo Alto’s noise ordinances.

We, at Silicon Valley, should set a high standard when it comes to evaluating construction project of such nature and
scale. The rest of the state and country look up to silicon valley leaders to adopt advanced technologies and push for a
safer, better living environment (not the other way around).

I appreciate your reading this email and give sincere considerations.

Wen




                                                                1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 9:59 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com>
Sent:                          Friday, March 16, 2018 10:23 AM
To:                            paloaltofreepress@gmail.com; stevendlee@alumni.duke.edu; HRC; Binder, Andrew;
                               Cullen, Charles; gkirby@redwoodcity.org; Jonsen, Robert; council@redwoodcity.org;
                               Council, City; citycouncil@menlopark.org
Subject:                       What do body worn cameras actually reveal?




        https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2016/04/01/us/police-bodycam-
        video.html?mtrref=www.google.com&gwh=55C620504C4C42B35C4A1DC2B437D786&gwt=
        pay

        Shared via the Google app


        Sent from my iPhone




                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/21/2018 8:13 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Scottie Zimmerman <bigwheel.spot@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Tuesday, March 20, 2018 5:48 PM
To:                              Council, City
Cc:                              De Geus, Robert
Subject:                         Years of inaction concerning Palo Alto's animal shelter




Dear Council Members and Rob De Geus,

One of the most important documents to come out of the long process debating the future of Palo Alto Animal
Services (PAAS) was the 2015 Police Department Audit of shelter operations. I’m writing to remind you of
some results of the audit. I’m attaching visual aids that clarify issues of expense vs. revenue at the shelter and
that compare sources of revenue among various shelters in the Bay Area.

First, PAAS expenditures, with the blue portion representing staff salaries and benefits:




The jagged black line represents annual revenues between FY 2005 and FY 2014. Most notably, you can see a
precipitous drop in income between FY 13 and FY 14. That decline occurred because the three Vet. Techs at
                                                           1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/21/2018 8:13 AM
PAAS resigned or retired in July 2012 (FY 2013), and they were not replaced for more than a year. This made
it impossible for PAAS to offer spay/neuter services to the public during that time, cutting off a primary source
of income. I’ve attended Council meetings at which members expressed consternation over the drop in income
in 2013-2014. Well, here’s the cause: Inability to interview, process, and hire replacement Vet. Techs, thus no
spay/neuter income.

Next are details of PAAS annual revenue between FY 2005 - FY 2014:




The colors tell a story. Notice that income from spay/neuter services is in purple and is a reliable revenue
source until FY 2013 when the Vet. Techs left PAAS. The purple shrinks, and the revenue shrinks. An
additional remarkable feature is the amount of Other income (in orange) for FY 2013. This shows a dramatic
increase in Donations to the shelter. Citizens of Palo Alto were indignant that the shelter might be closed down,
and they came forward with generous donations.

And finally, here is a chart illustrating a comparison among shelters in our area:




                                                         2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/21/2018 8:13 AM




Notice that Humane Society Silicon Valley (HSSV), Peninsula Humane Society (PHS), and San Francisco
SPCA have large blue segments. That’s because these organizations are 501(c)(3) nonprofits free to solicit
donations that support their animal care and public services. You can see also that PAAS and San Jose barely
earn enough to pay 40% of their annual expenditures.

The audit that was performed is clear and comprehensive. If you haven’t read it in a while, here’s the URL to
see the document:

https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/47385

Resolving the problems the auditor found has taken 3 years. I hope I’m clear that I want the City to act! We
want necessary commitments so Pets In Need takes over management of an upgraded current shelter with
fundraising plans for new facilities that bring Palo Alto’s animal services proudly into the 21st century.

Sincerely,

— Scottie Zimmerman




                                                       3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/21/2018 8:13 AM




                                                     4
