            DOCUMENTS IN THIS PACKET INCLUDE:


                LETTERS FROM CITIZENS TO THE
                   MAYOR OR CITY COUNCIL


    RESPONSES FROM STAFF TO LETTERS FROM CITIZENS


        ITEMS FROM MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS


      ITEMS FROM OTHER COMMITTEES AND AGENCIES


ITEMS FROM CITY, COUNTY, STATE, AND REGIONAL AGENCIES




       Prepared for:           2/26/2018
       Document dates: 2/7/2018 – 2/14/2018

                                Set 1
 Note: Documents for every category may not have been received for packet
                      reproduction in a given week.




                                                                      701-32
 •
 CITY OF
 PALO
 ALTO
                                      CITY OF PALO ALTO
                                        MEMORANDUM



 TO:                 HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

 FROM:               Beth Minor, City Clerk
 AGENDA DATE:        February 12, 2018
 SUBJECT:            APPROVAL OF ACTION MINUTES FOR THE JANUARY 29, 2018 COUNCIL
                     MEETINGS - CORRECTION TO ITEM 11

 An error in the Minutes for the January 29, 2018 City Council meeting, Item 11, has been noted.
 The agenda title incorrectly shows approval of Resolution Numbers 9735 and 9736. The final
 action taken for that item did not include approval of a Resolution. Therefore, the Resolution
 numbers should be removed from the final minutes. Please find the agenda title with the
 proposed correction and the final vote below.

 11.     Adoption of a Resolution 9735 Entitled "Resolution of the Council of the
         City of Palo Amending the Southgate Residential Preferential Parking
         Program (RPP) by Adjusting the Number of Employee Permits and
         Making Clarifying Modifications;" and a Resolution 9736 Establishing a
         Two-hour Parking Restriction in the Commercial Zones Adjacent to 1515
         El Camino Real and 1681 El Camino Real (Continued from December 11,
         2017).
 MOTION AS AMENDED RESTATED: Council Member Tanaka moved,
 seconded by Mayor Kniss to:
 A.      Re-assess the pilot program at the end of six months; and
 B.      Direct Staff to return to Council as soon as possible with a Resolution
         adding Southgate RPP parking along the west-side of El Camino Real
         and clarifying the language on re-parking; and
 C.      Forward the Resolution to CalTrans to authorize the addition of the
         parking and, upon approval by CalTrans, an additional 15 employee
         permits will be released; and
 D.      Direct Staff to explore options to reduce the bunching of employee
         parking
 MOTION AS AMENDED PASSED: 9-0

 We request this change be incorporated in Council's approval of these Action Minutes.


 Thank you,      ~         /

~J)/Vt!V
 Beth Minor, City Clerk
                                                      COUNCIL MEETING ~
                                                         02/12/2018
                                                      "!!!!!'IZl""'"Re-c-ei-ve"'°!d""'"B....
                                                                                         ef-or_e_M_e-et-in-g
                                                                                                               4

      CI TY 0 F
      PALO
      ALTO
TO:                HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL
FROM:              Beth Min or, City Clerk
AGENDA DATE:        February 12, 2018
SUBJECT:      APPROVAL OF ACTION MINUTES FOR THE JANUARY 29,
              2018 COUNCIL MEETINGS - CORRECTION TO ITEM 11

An error in the Minutes for the January 29, 2018 City Council meeting, Item
11, has been noted. The agenda title incorrectly shows approval of
Resolution Numbers 9735 and 9736. The final action taken for that item did
not include approval of the Resolutions. Therefore, the Resolution numbers
should be removed from the final minutes. Please find the agenda title with
the proposed correction and the final vote below.

11.   Adoption of a Resolution 9735 Entitled "Resolution of the Council of the
      City of Palo Amending the Southgate Residential Preferential Parking
      Program (RPP) by Adjusting the Number of Employee Permits and
      Making Clarifying Modifications;" and a Resolution 9736 Establishing a
      Two-hour Parking Restriction in the Commercial Zones Adjacent to
      1515 El Camino Real and 1681 El Camino Real (Continued from
      December 11, 2017).

The correct agenda title should be:
Adoption of a Resolution Amending the Southgate Residential Preferential
Parking Program by Adjusting the Number of Employee Permits and Making
Clarifying Modifications, and a Resolution Establishing a Two hour Parking
Restriction in the Commercial Zones Adjacent to 1515 El Camino Real and
1681 El Camino Real (Continued from December 11, 2017)

MOTION AS AMENDED RESTATED: Council Member Tanaka moved,
seconded by Mayor Kniss to:
A.    Re-assess the pilot program at the end of six months; and
B.    Direct Staff to return to Council as soon as possible with a Resolution
      adding Southgate RPP parking along the west-side of El Camino Real
      and clarifying the language on re-parking; and


                                                                                                         1 of2
        CITY OF
       PALO
       ALTO
  C.   Forward the Resolution to CalTrans to authorize the addition of the
       parking and, upon approval by CalTrans, an additional 15 employee
       permits will be released; and
  D.   Direct Staff to explore options to reduce the bunching of employee
       parking
  MOTION AS AMENDED PASSED: 9-0

  We request this change be incorporated in Council's approval of these Action
  Minutes.


  Thank   you,~
~         •
Beth Minor, City Clerk




                                                                          2 of2
        CITY OF
        PALO
                                                                                      7
        ALTO


TO:             HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

FROM:           BETH MINOR, CITY CLERK

DATE:           FEBRUARY 12, 2018

SUBJECT:        AGENDA ITEM NUMBER 7- Review of Fiscal Year 2018 Mid-year Budget and
                Approval of Budget Amendments in Various Funds, amend the Table of
                Organization by reclassifying 1.0 Manager Accounting to 1.0 Manager Finance,
                and amend the salary schedule for Managers and Professional Employees.



Please note that the title for this item has been expanded to include amending the Table of
Organization by reclassifying 1.0 Manager Accounting to 1.0 Manager Finance, and amending
the salary schedule for Ma gers and Professional Employees.




Beth D. Minor
City Clerk




                                                                                        1of1
                                                                                    lOA
TO:                   HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

FROM:                 BETH MINOR, CITY CLERK

DATE:                 FEBRUARY 12, 2018

SUBJECT:              AGENDA ITEM NUMBER 10A -Review and Accept a Proposed Housing Work
                      Plan for 2018-Refer Specific Elements to the Planning & Transportation

                                                                                                     ·-
                                                                                                   <
                      Commission for 2019 and Preparation of Related Zoning Ordinance(s) . 1 1 --:     ·- -

                                                                                           .
On February 5, 2018 Council continued the Draft Housing Workplan to its February 12, 2018
meeting. Below is the motion that was made on February 5th and will be used as a starting point
on February 12th.

MOTION: Council Member Fine moved, seconded by Council Member Scharff to:
A. Direct Staff to:
       i. Complete ongoing projects and initiatives designed to stimulate the production of
          affordable and workforce housing; and

            ii.    Develop and adopt one or more zoning amendment Ordinances with prov1s1ons
                  designed to encourage production of a diversity of housing types in appropriate
                  locations; and

       iii.       Prepare the economic analyses necessary to prepare and consider Ordinances
                  increasing inclusionary requirements from 15 percent to 20 percent for new
                  development, applying inclusionary requirements to new rental housing, and
                  requiring payment of in-lieu fees or off-site replacement if existing units are removed
                  from the housing stock resulting in a net loss of units; and

        iv.       Use the City's affordable housing funds to stimulate the rehabilitation and
                  development of new affordable housing; and

        v.        Partner with other agencies and organizations to meet the needs of underserved
                  members of our community and to engage in community conversations about the
                  use of publicly-owned land for affordable housing; and

      vi.         Add an item to the 2018 Ordinance to increase housing Floor Area Ratio (FAR) in the
                  Downtown, California Avenue, and El Camino Real areas;

                                                                                                   1 of2
B.   Refer Work Plan Items 2.1 through 2.6 to the Planning and Transportation Commission for
     input on the preparation of a 2018 Housing Ordinance and a recommendation for
     consideration by the City Council; and


C. Refer Work Plan Items 3.1 through 4.2 to the Policy and Services Committee for input on
     possible policy changes and on the use of City housing funds.


This Agenda Item continued to ebruary 12, 2018.




Beth D. Minor, City Clerk




                                                                                      2 of2
tft\
~
CITY OF
                                                                               Item#       11
PALO                                CITY OF PALO ALTO
ALTO                                 MEMORANDUM


TO:               HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL


FROM:             CITY MANAGER                             DEPARTMENT:       PLANNING AND
                                                               COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT


AGENDA DATE:      2/12/2018                                ID#: 8719

SUBJECT:      NORTH VENTURA COORDINATED AREA PLAN KICKOFF


Attached is an updated proposed North Ventura Coordinated Area Plan boundary map, revised
as follows: 1) to reflect a recent property line modification along Acacia Avenue; and 2) to
include five additional properties located adjacent to the project area's southwestern
boundary, near the intersection of Portage Avenue and Ash Street.

The Acacia Avenue expansion reflects a recent lot line merger to incorporate a narrow parcel
into the larger adjacent parcel, creating a more useable lot. This now larger parcel is also
owned by the Sobrato Organization. Robert Wheatley Properties, the owner of the second
largest number of properties within the project area, has expressed interest in participating in
the effort and in including the five additional properties near Portage Avenue and Ash Street.

Staff asks that the City Council consider expanding the project boundary to include the
additions as proposed in the attached map. Similar to the boundary changes originally
proposed by staff in the report, the expanded boundaries are all located within a block of the
original boundary, adjacent to the priority development area borders. The expansions would
enable a more comprehensive planning effort. The Council may wish to consider additional
additions/modifications.




Director
Planning and Community Environment

Attachment
IIu       I
          I
       ~'"-,




lI
i




i
s..
~
f
11
H
]i
r,i                (")(ii
                         ~
                                                                                      "'d
                                                                                      . . . ;.
                   ~3                                                                 ~

nu
                                                                                                   e
                   0 "'
                   -   "'O




               ~
                   "ti (ii

                   0!!!. "'O
                          "'      Proposed                                            0        n

:~                 ~     8.    NVCAP Boundary                                         >~
                         15
u                                                                                     ......
.:it               0
                   ~-
                   en                                                                 ...... ..,
                                                                                               0
                      Q,
                      g.                                                              0
~I                       Cl>

~~ ...........................................................liiiiii......liiiiiiiiil.................
                                                                              COUNCIL MEETING
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/8/2018 4:52 PM
                                                                               ✔
                                                                                       02/12/2018
                                                                                   Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                               7 8
Carnahan, David

From:                               Ng, Judy
Sent:                               Thursday, February 08, 2018 4:51 PM
To:                                 Council Members; ORG - Clerk's Office; Council Agenda Email
Cc:                                 Keene, James; Shikada, Ed; De Geus, Robert; Flaherty, Michelle; Sartor, Mike; Bobel, Phil;
                                    Arp, Ron; Muir, Chuck; Perez, Lalo; Nose, Kiely
Subject:                            2/12 Council Agenda Questions for Items 7 & 8




 Dear Mayor and Council Members:

 On behalf of City Manager Jim Keene, please find below in bold staff responses to inquiries
 made by Council Member Tanaka in regard to the February 12, 2018 council meeting agenda.

 Item 7: FY 2018 Mid‐Year Budget Report & Budget Amendments ‐ CM Tanaka
 Item 8: Contract Approval for Household Hazardous Waste Services ‐ CM Tanaka

 Item 7: FY 2018 Mid‐Year Budget Report & Budget Amendments

           Q. 1. There is a pay increase from Accounting Manager ($131,851/year) to Finance
           Manager ($141,918/year). Is there anybody being promoted in this way? If so, is
           there resource impact?

           A. 1. No, there is no current incumbent in this position which has been vacant for
           over one year as recruitment has been unsuccessful to date.

 Item 8: Contract Approval for Household Hazardous Waste Services

           Q. 1. What neighboring cities have this same program? How much are they paying?

           A. 1. All of Palo Alto’s neighboring cities utilize a Household Hazardous Waste
           (HHW) collection program operated by the County, instead of a City run
           program. These County Programs are substantially less frequent than Palo Alto’s
           1‐2 times per week; and involve greater driving times.

           For the City of Mountain View, in FY17, the cost per participant was $81.74 to
           participate in the Santa Clara County HHW Program. The San Mateo County cost
           per participant was $80.67. The cost per participant in the Palo Alto HHW Program
           was $49.85/participant; substantially less.

           Q. 2. If the HHW Program received a grant from CalRecycle to make many key
           improvements to the HHW Programs, including creating the new HHW Station why
           does Palo Alto need to give them additional funds?

           A. 2. The grant money to improve the HHW station was a one‐time award in 2011
                                                              1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/8/2018 4:52 PM
        and this funding is not available to cover ongoing operational costs. Going forward,
        the additional services amount of 10% of the proposed base contract will only be
        used for unforeseen or out of scope work. An important example is a spill of a
        Hazardous Material on a City street.


        Q. 3. How much did the city pay for the last contract for HHW?

        A. 3. The proposed agreement is for a three year term and totals $990,000. The last
        HHW contract was also for three years, and the total was $1,138,500.


Thank you,
Judy Ng


             Judy Ng
             City Manager’s Office|Administrative Associate III
             250 Hamilton Avenue | Palo Alto, CA 94301
             Phone: (650) 329‐2354
             Email: Judy.Ng@CityofPaloAlto.org




                                                                  2
                                                                          COUNCIL MEETING
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/12/2018 11:13 AM
                                                                                   02/12/2018            10A
                                                                           ✔
                                                                               Received Before Meeting
Carnahan, David

From:                          slevy@ccsce.com
Sent:                          Monday, February 12, 2018 10:15 AM
To:                            Council, City
Subject:                       housing work plan


I write in support of moving forward on the housing work plan.

I support the increase in FAR in selected areas as proposed in the motion from the last meeting.

I would add two items to the economic analysis:

--examine the financial implications of the retail preservation ordinance in selected areas and for selected
types of housing projects. The evidence from the Wilton Court project is that it could be an impediment to
project viability.

--examine a broad range of options for reducing parking requirements including the concept of shared
parking (for example, different people needing spaces at different times of the day).




Stephen Levy

365 Forest Avenue




                                                      1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/12/2018 11:14 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Eric Rosenblum <mitericr@gmail.com>
Sent:                             Sunday, February 11, 2018 5:16 PM
To:                               Council, City; board@paloaltoforward.com
Subject:                          In support of the Housing Workplan for your Monday agenda


To Palo Alto City Council

We strongly encourage you to accept staff’s recommendation to begin work on their proposed 2018
ordinances in the “housing work plan”.

This set of recommendations encompasses many items that are clearly worth studying:
    Removal of constraints for multi-family housing in our densest, most transit-friendly districts
    Reduction of parking requirements to potentially reduce cost of housing formation
    Revise permitted uses and use mix (e.g., allow 100% residential w/ retail)

Nothing in this workplan says that you have to adopt the final recommendations. However, these are items
that should be non-controversial to begin staff work. Staff put considerable care in choosing these near-term,
high priority items.

At the same time, we recognize that there are longer term (2019 and beyond) items that may require further
discussion about whether or not to devote staff resources.

All-in-all, we are encouraged by the energy that this Council has put into housing-related issues this year; this
workplan is a chance to take on our issues even more systematically.

Please direct staff to kick off this work.

Sincerely,

Eric Rosenblum
President, Palo Alto Forward




                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/12/2018 11:14 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                               Randy Mont-Reynaud <rmontreynaud@gmail.com>
Sent:                               Sunday, February 11, 2018 5:03 PM
To:                                 Council, City
Subject:                            Seniors? Age before...?Say YES to proposed 2018 ordinances in the “housing work
                                    plan”.



Can we please see some action on behalf of seniors, affordable BMR
purchase?




                            ?




--
With warmest regards,

Randy Mont-Reynaud, PhD

ISAIAH 58: ""Is not this the kind of fasting I have chosen: to loose the chains of injustice and untie the cords of the yoke,
to set the oppressed free and break every yoke?"

650 858 1558 (cell)
Our 501 c-3 is "If Pigs Could Fly - Haiti" Visit us here:
www.ifpigscouldflyhaiti.org
And here is my blog: http://www.haitinextdoor.com/
And https://www.gofundme.com/IfPigsCouldFlyHaiti


                                                               1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/12/2018 11:17 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                                                                           Joy Sleizer <joy.sleizer142@gmail.com>
Sent:                                                                                           Saturday, February 10, 2018 12:08 PM
To:                                                                                             Council, City
Subject:                                                                                        Housing Work plan



Dear Council Members,

I strongly encourage you to accept staff's recommendation to begin work on the proposed 2018 ordinances in
the "housing work plan? I have just read the proposal & think it's an excellent way to start to solve the
problems we have with too little housing & too many cars.

Thank you for your service.

Best regards


Joy Sleizer
850 Webster Street #706
Palo Alto, CA 94301

    Right-click here to download pictures. To help p ro tect y our
    priv acy , Outlo ok prev ented au tomatic download of this picture
    from the Internet.




                                                                         Virus-free. www.avast.com




                                                                                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/12/2018 11:24 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Stephanie Munoz <stephanie@dslextreme.com>
Sent:                         Thursday, February 08, 2018 11:15 PM
To:                           editor@paweekly.com
Cc:                           Court Skinner; Council, City; joe; jthorwaldson@paweekly.com;
                              gsheyner@paweekly.com; WILPF Peninsula Palo Alto
Subject:                      opinion on teacher housing



 Last week's PA Weekly showed virtual unanimity among community groups about the importance of
teacher housing, with one voice--yours--reminding us that teachers aren't the only ones in need of
housing. Perhaps that mild dissent could lead us to a better solution. While it's undeniable that we
wouldn't have a Palo Alto--or any city in the world--without teachers, we already have land which
could hold housing for all the teachers; not only publicly owned but owned by the school district itself,
so much acreage that PAUSD was cavalierly selling off school sites until the city stepped in to
preserve them. In addition to the school sites, we have the Administration building site. There is
enough land to house all our teachers, every one, buffered from the neighborhood by its own
obligatory open space.

Then there's the NIMBY problem. Palo Alto used to have a unique and economical public housing
program: people who were self-supporting but too poor to afford local rentals provided do-it-yourself
shelter in their cars, while the city provided a parking place and bathrooms, at Cubberly, and the
neighbors closed it down. But teachers get a pass from being valued by material wealth because
even the most callous and uncaring voter understands that whether an aggressive child becomes a
drug dealer or a Captain of Industry is often the human investment provided by his teacher. So we
could erect a fourteen story residence for teachers, like 101 Alma, rivaling Versailles in magnificence,
because it's symbolic of our society, and adds to the aura of wealth in the neighborhood, where it
wouldn't be tolerated for poor people, no matter how deserving or how many obstacles they have
overcome just to stay alive.

Economics is even more important. School districts have investments, like other public
entities. What better investment could there be than essential rental housing, for what is effectively a
captive market for renters whose jobs and income you also have control over?
Why should the hard-pressed taxpayers pour out money to be automatically sucked up by the
wealthiest of private entrepreneurs? A publicly owned residential building is almost unknown:
teacher housing would afford a unique opportunity for multi-unit housing innovation, for
example, housing in which every unit, every story, would have a large outdoor balcony on which the
residents could grow fruit and flowers.

Schools thrive on money, so the thrust of our city's governance is to improve taxable property values,
and to this end, in the '50s they converted foothills land from residential zoned to industrial zoned,
simultaneously raising the value of undeveloped land, but also the already developed, because by
decreasing the number of potential homes they raised the value of the existing ones. BUT that meant
they had to pay the teachers more in order for them to be housed. We need to convert part of
teachers' compensation from money, which continuously declines in value through slavishly
worshipped "growth" (inflation), into use of space, which continuously increases in value, so as to
break out of the vicious cycle in which the more we increase the property value the more we have to
pay the teachers.
                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/12/2018 11:24 AM
Our best paid teachers now make $129,000 a year and that's more than enough for them to live in
Palo Alto, because they bought their homes twenty years ago, but it won't be enough for the teachers
of tomorrow. A public acceptance bonus would be that the popular public service uses currently
housed at Cubberly, child care, dance and art studios, could all continue as the ground floor of a
teacher residence, oriented so as not to disturb the private residential quality of the apartments.

Similarly, using the Santa Clara County land by the Court House for housing city and county
employees would be most helpful in the future, when, we are learning, the cost of retirement will
double our employee expenditure. For every job we will have to pay double, because the retired
employee is paid almost as much as the new employee. But we could convert retirement money
compensation into housing compensation; many retirees would find it worth-while to relinquish
egregious pensions imprudently based on the employee's final salary instead of the average, which
also assumed an out-size housing cost, and falsely assuming (because of Prop. 13) that the
employee's property tax would rise a great deal, for the privilege of being allowed to live, or continue
to live, in high quality, low cost housing built for public employees, in the community where they have
built their lives around children, friends and support professionals, rather than take their winnings to
build a new life in Scottsdale, Arizona, where they know nobody.

We're in the process of building a new fire station, and the Council is hell-bent on building a new
police station. Why can't there be apartments for police and firemen above those buildings,
especially for firemen, whose duties require that they be present at the job site several nights a
week? Haven't disabled veterans earned the right to be housed on unused military bases? Shouldn't
Social Security recipients, having been taxed their entire working lifetime on the promise that in
retirement the government would return the taxes to support them, have land bought with federal
funds on which modest retirement suites their pensions could afford could be built?

We hear dire warnings that federal social service money is going to be drastically cut to balance the
new tax law's cuts to subsidize the making of wealth. Shouldn't we save the dwindling HUD money
for poor families who have no other claim on public funds?

Stephanie Munoz 101 Alma, apt. 701, Palo Alto, CA 94301 650 248-1842




                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/12/2018 4:12 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Suzanne Keehn <skeehn2012@gmail.com>
Sent:                         Monday, February 12, 2018 3:50 PM
To:                           Council, City
Subject:                      Agenda 2/12



To the Palo Alto City Council,

Two very important issues are on the agenda tonight. Both need community input and
education. Neither one has
been given the time it needs for the public to have their questions and concerns discussed and
answered. It seems
to me that this Council is rushing to get through two very large items, which should not be
hurried. They are too
important to our community. Apparently the City Manager mentioned the Work housing Plan
at the beginning of
the retreat, but that is not enough to communicate and publicize the issues and there are
many.
For some reason the Fire Department and the Police Department have been cut. We don't
have enough officers
for traffic enforcement, this is a big safety issue. Developers must provide at least 25 % of
BMRs. Please do not
rush this through.

The second one dealing with the Ventura/Fry's site, will very much impact the surrounding
neighborhoods. The
advisory committee need an application to apply for this committee, and be totally
transparent. We need the
majority of this committee to be made up from the local neighborhoods because that is where
the traffic and
congestion impacts. We have had a lot of business, office development, it is time for the City
to invest in our
community.

What do the citizens of Palo Alto want this site to be used for? It is time for a long‐term
investment for the
community: We could consider many proposals that would enhance South Palo Alto and the
City as a whole.

                                                     1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/12/2018 4:12 PM
We no longer have the correct ratio of parks in P.A. so how about a large 10 acre park?
A swimming pool
A community center, with a gymnasium

What is high priority for the Parks and Recreation Department?

Something that benefits all of us, not just a few of us.




                                                     2
                                                                                                         COUNCIL MEETING
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/12/2018 11:29 AM
                                                                                                                  02/12/2018                    11
                                                                                                          ✔
                                                                                                              Received Before Meeting
Carnahan, David

From:                                         Ken Joye <kmjoye@gmail.com>
Sent:                                         Wednesday, February 07, 2018 5:31 PM
To:                                           Council, City
Cc:                                           North Ventura Coordinated Area Plan
Subject:                                      Re: City Council Meeting on North Ventura Coordinated Area Plan



I received notice from the City Clerk’s office that Council will be discussing the NVCAP at next week’s
meeting. I am glad to see that the project is moving forward and would like to state once again my interest in
becoming a member of the working group.

I have lived with my wife on Park Blvd in the Ventura neighborhood since 1992 and we reared our two children
here. I
support context-sensitive, pedestrian-scaled development and enhanced connectivity for bicyclists. Easy access to the California Ave shopping district is
one of the reasons I am glad to live where I do.


Unfortunately I will be out of town on February 12th and will not be able to attend the meeting at which you
discuss this. Thank you for your support of this important effort.

Ken Joye




          On Feb 6, 2018, at 3:51 PM, Chitra.Moitra wrote:
          […] The City is beginning the process of developing a Coordinated Area Plan for the North Ventura area
          (NVCAP). The City Council will have a hearing on Monday, February 12, 2018 on this item. The City
          Council will review the preliminary goal/objectives, schedule and revised boundary; give authorization
          to the City Manager to execute the grant agreement; provide direction to staff regarding the working
          group members and approve a budget amendment to reflect the grant that was awarded for this
          project.




                                                                            1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/12/2018 4:12 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Suzanne Keehn <skeehn2012@gmail.com>
Sent:                         Monday, February 12, 2018 3:50 PM
To:                           Council, City
Subject:                      Agenda 2/12



To the Palo Alto City Council,

Two very important issues are on the agenda tonight. Both need community input and
education. Neither one has
been given the time it needs for the public to have their questions and concerns discussed and
answered. It seems
to me that this Council is rushing to get through two very large items, which should not be
hurried. They are too
important to our community. Apparently the City Manager mentioned the Work housing Plan
at the beginning of
the retreat, but that is not enough to communicate and publicize the issues and there are
many.
For some reason the Fire Department and the Police Department have been cut. We don't
have enough officers
for traffic enforcement, this is a big safety issue. Developers must provide at least 25 % of
BMRs. Please do not
rush this through.

The second one dealing with the Ventura/Fry's site, will very much impact the surrounding
neighborhoods. The
advisory committee need an application to apply for this committee, and be totally
transparent. We need the
majority of this committee to be made up from the local neighborhoods because that is where
the traffic and
congestion impacts. We have had a lot of business, office development, it is time for the City
to invest in our
community.

What do the citizens of Palo Alto want this site to be used for? It is time for a long‐term
investment for the
community: We could consider many proposals that would enhance South Palo Alto and the
City as a whole.

                                                     1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/12/2018 4:12 PM
We no longer have the correct ratio of parks in P.A. so how about a large 10 acre park?
A swimming pool
A community center, with a gymnasium

What is high priority for the Parks and Recreation Department?

Something that benefits all of us, not just a few of us.




                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/8/2018 2:56 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                                Winter Dellenbach <winterdell@earthlink.net>
Sent:                                Wednesday, February 07, 2018 5:20 PM
Subject:                             Buena Vista news to delight and inform you
Attachments:                         PastedGraphic-3.pdf


Board of Supervisors Pres. Joe Simitian looks on as BV Board Pres. Erika Escalante introduces him.



Dear Friends of Buena Vista ~ I want to share with you a happy event from yesterday as seen in the photograph
above. You likely know that our County Supervisor and great friend to Buena Vista, Supervisor Joe Simitian was
elected this year as President of the Board of Supervisors. In that capacity he delivered the annual State of the
County address and asked Buena Vista's longtime Board President, Erika Escalante to introduce him. (site address
for video of introduction and State of County address, below. Erika begins around "7" if you want to slide forward)
http://sccgov.iqm2.com/Citizens/VideoScreen.aspx?MediaID=25895&Frame=None

As her parents and brother watched with pride, Erika spoke to a standing room, overflow audience of mayors,
county and state officials. Having grown up at Buena Vista and as a leader she embodied a great lesson learned
from the effort to save Buena Vista - broad partnerships with city and county governments and agencies,
community and faith groups, current and former officials, schools and BV residents can prevail when seemingly
impossible barriers stand in the way of progress.

Supervisor Simitian message was of such partnerships as a proven way to progress in times when the federal
government makes it difficult and the State government is in a time of change. His message was challenging yet
attainable, practical and positive while delivered with good humor and of the right length to be interesting to the
end. I encourage you to watch the video. What Supervisor Simitian has to say will be of interest to you and is
important to us in Santa Clara County.

There were friendly faces from Palo Alto - some City Council members, an attorney from the Law Foundation that
represents BV residents, and the Executive Director of the Housing Authority which now owns BV. Many others
greeted Erika afterwards, knowing her or of her, having followed the Buena Vista saga over the years. It was a
wonderful event and a reminder that Buena Vista not only was saved but has importance and resonates beyond its
4 acres.

All else at BV goes well. Plans are being worked on for upgrading the property as was promised. Residents are
getting on with their lives. The Homework Club is a most welcome new undertaking. The future unfolds.

Winter Dellenbach
Friends of Buena Vista




                                                                 1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/14/2018 2:47 PM


Brettle, Jessica

From:                             David Recht <david.recht@gmail.com>
Sent:                             Tuesday, February 13, 2018 9:42 AM
To:                               Council, City
Cc:                               Sarah Burgess; Laura Seitel; Bonnie Flanagan
Subject:                          Comment on Fwd: Comment on 17PLN-00015



Dear Council:

I am forwarding an email I had previously sent to Claire Hodgkins of the Palo Alto Planning Commission
relative to the activity at the First Baptist Church on North California Avenue.

I believe the points made in my email are still as valid today as they were then (please see my email below).

Additionally, I can only stress that the large flow of people, drop-offs, pick-ups, etc. continue on and, thus,
continue to present a dangerous situation for children, and others, in this residential neighborhood. The church
has almost no parking (I have not counted them myself but understand there are only 8-12 parking spaces to
service the location. This necessarily means that all additional traffic from church bound uses (church or for-
profit businesses at the church) is forced onto public residential streets that were not designed for this
activity. The church itself was not designed for everyday use by dozens (hundreds?) of cars.

Making matters more dangerous is the recent “upgrade” of North California road striping for cars (no striping)
and bicycles (one bike lane on each side of the street) and the fact that Bryant Street is the city’s main bicycle
thorough fare (with plans to emphasize biking even more in the future?). Because of these two factors and the
fact that we have Bryant bicyclists merging with a large flow of Jordan Middle School bicyclists (think of
typical 6th, 7th and 8th graders who do not pay enough attention to their bicycle riding and typically ignore
bicycle rules), this intersection is a dangerous place.

The fact is I see a church that was never intended to be a community center (in the sense of weekday/everyday
use) in an area that is extremely ill suited to handle large amounts of activity on an everyday basis. Surely there
must be other locations much better suited to handling constant community activities than the location of the
First Baptist Church (as an example, First Congregational on Louis has an ideal parking situation for handling
large numbers of pickups and drop-offs).

Please consider returning the First Baptist Church to its intended use by denying a larger community center role
and also removing the for profit businesses that involve large amounts of everyday activities. This will help
lower the risk of life threatening accidents to the many bicycle youth that have to use this area and would also
preserve the residential character of our neighborhood instead of creating a commercial center.

As a reminder the Palo Alto Municipal Code section 18.76.10 (c) relative to conditional use permits states that a
permit shall NOT be granted if it is:

"1. Detrimental or injurious to property or improvements in the vicinity and will be detrimental to the public
health, safety, general welfare, or convenience.

2. Not conducted in a manner in accord with the Palo Alto Comprehensive Plan and the purposes of this title
(Zoning)."
                                                              1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/14/2018 2:47 PM


Thank your for your consideration.



David Recht
david.recht@gmail.com
415-706-1521
============
Photo sites:
davidrecht.net
www.instagram.com/david.recht/
https://500px.com/drecht
https://www.flickr.com/photos/drecht/DavidRecht
plus.google.com/+DavidRecht/photos
http://drecht.zenfolio.com




        Begin forwarded message:

        From: David Recht <david.recht@gmail.com>
        Subject: Comment on 17PLN-00015
        Date: February 10, 2017 at 4:41:02 PM PST
        To: claire.hodgkins@cityofpaloalto.org

        Hi Claire:

        My wife and I live at 252 Washington, one house from Bryant street just north of California and
        very close to the Baptist Church.

        We have been a bit unaware of the full extent of the proposal for a Conditional Use Permit at the
        church for the Mozart School of Music. However, the notice we received from the city in the
        mail prompted us to want to comment.

        We have lived at our address for 29 years so we have experience with the church and have, over
        the many years, have been inconvenienced by church activities that fill the neighborhood with
        cars, etc. While it can be an imposition when either we or our guests are unable to park in front
        of or near our house, we have largely been accepting of this church activity as it was usually not
        a constant occurrence and, frankly, was often for a good cause.

        However, hearing that there is an actual business (and maybe not just the only business)
        operating at the church a year or so ago and seeing the flood of cars, students, mothers and
        fathers doing drop offs and pick ups, we would like to oppose granting this conditional use
        permit. The mailer specifies only the number of classrooms but does not specify the possible
        number of students that would be on site at the church. We can only guess at the total number
        but even at 10-20 students per classroom that would manifest in 100 to 200 students, if not
        more. That could easily translate into 200-400 drop offs and pickups or the parking of between
                                                              2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/14/2018 2:47 PM
        50 and 100 cars in the neighborhood. This would add greatly to the congestion at an already
        busy intersection - an intersection that is also along one of Palo Alto’s designated bike
        boulevards.

        Parking issues are significant based on these projections (especially if other business are, in fact,
        operating at the church). But, maybe even more importantly, California Avenue is a major
        thorough fare for Jordan Middle School students on bike. To me the combination of an existing
        busy intersection, a major city bike boulevard and the student biking population presents a
        serious safety hazard to all involved - especially young middle school students who already
        demonstrate reckless biking traits.

        In addition to the above, I also wonder why a church would be allowed to host an actual for
        profit business in an area that clearly was not intended to be a commercial area. This raises
        questions about zoning as well as the tax exempt status of the church.


        Please do not allow this conditional use permit. We believe it goes against what we all cherish in
        Palo Alto which is peaceful and safe neighborhoods.

        Best regards,



        David Recht
        david.recht@gmail.com
        415-706-1521
        ============
        Photo sites:
        davidrecht.net
        plus.google.com/+DavidRecht/photos
        http://drecht.zenfolio.com
        https://www.flickr.com/photos/drecht/DavidRecht




                                                              3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/14/2018 2:34 PM


Brettle, Jessica

From:                             Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com>
Sent:                             Monday, February 12, 2018 9:38 PM
To:                               stephanie@dslextreme.com; wilpf.peninsula.paloalto@gmail.com; chuckjagoda1
                                  @gmail.com; Letters@sfchronicle.com; bhushans@aol.com; judyblueeyes1@gmail.com;
                                  grchippendale@yahoo.com; roberta.ahlquist@sjsu.edu; dprice@padailypost.com;
                                  trudy@myrrh-art.com; cherrill@slac.stanford.edu; burdlady@gmail.com;
                                  paloaltofreepress@gmail.com; Council, City
Subject:                          Don’t judge Persky sentence in a vacuum
Attachments:                      Aram James (DJ-7.7.2016).pdf




Sent from my iPhone




                                                              1
                                                                 LOS ANGELES & SAN FRANCISCO




                                                                                                                        www.dailyjournal.com

                                                                           THURSDAY, JULY 7, 2016

                                                                                 PERSPECTIVE

Don’t judge Persky sentence in a vacuum
By Aram B. James                             ing some, if not all, of the maximum            lowing his therapist to speak directly         maximize public safety and protect us
                                             prison time they could have received at         to Turner’s probation officer re his           from truly violent predators.


F
        ormer Stanford student and po-       the time of the original sentencing. In         progress or lack thereof.                         The sentence in the Turner case
        tential Olympic swimmer Brock        Turner’s case, this means if he violates           Turner must register annually as            more than adequately balances both
        Turner, a 19-year-old freshman       probation he could well end up serving          a sex offender for life, and each time         the public safety and the rehabilitative
at the time of this incident, was con-       a prison sentence of three to 10 years,         he changes his residence. He must re-          purposes of probation.
victed in March of three felonies:           or more — hardly a slap on the hand.            register within a few days of moving.             Many of the same progressive voices
assault with intent to commit rape of           Given the infamous cause celeb sta-          Failure to register in a timely manner         who have spoken out long and passion-
an intoxicated or unconscious person,        tus that this case has achieved, Turner is      would be both a new crime, allowing            ately against over incarceration, mass
sexual penetration of an intoxicated         now one of the most reviled defendants          for the potential of new charges and a         incarceration, the disproportionate sen-
person, and sexual penetration of an         in American. He will undoubtedly be             separate prison sentence, and a viola-         tences imposed on the poor and people
unconscious person. The victim was a         closely scrutinized on probation. Turner        tion of his current probation.                 of color, are now doing an about face
22-year-old female college graduate,         will be on a very short leash.                     Turner must submit to drug and al-          in the Turner case.
from another university, who attend-                                                         cohol testing to ensure he is complying           They are shouting out that more of
ed the same alcohol-fueled Stanford           If he violates probation he                    with the terms of his probation, that          the same cruelty and barbarism should
fraternity party as Turner.                                                                  he not consume alcohol or drugs, or            have been handed down in the Turner
   On June 2, Judge Aaron Persky of the      could well end up ser ving a
                                                                                             frequent places where alcohol is sold or       case. The same mentality that has
Santa Clara County Superior Court —          prison sentence of three to                     consumed as a primary business.                brought us to our current failed state
after reviewing and considering a very       10 years, or more — hardly                         He must waive his Fourth Amend-             of mass incarceration.
detailed probation report prepared by                                                        ment rights, to be free of illegal and            Instead of blindly demanding that a
                                                  a slap on the hand.
a senior female member of the Santa                                                          warrantless searches, and thus submit          white male elite be sentenced to prison
Clara County Probation Department,                                                           to random searches and seizure of his          for his first offense, the better logic is
including statements from the victim            A defendant on probation is spared           person, vehicle and place of residence,        to demand the same measure of justice
and defendant, and numerous letters          prison only so long as he agrees to se-         at any time.                                   and mercy, for similarly situated defen-
attesting to Turner’s good character —       vere limits on his freedom. The terms              Upon an alleged violation of pro-           dants of color and the poor. We must
sentenced Turner to six months in the        and conditions of probation define the          bation, Turner, would be returned to           look to rehabilitation and restorative
county jail, with three years of formal      quality and limits of a defendant’s             court to face a hearing. Unlike with a         justice first, and harsh and unforgiving
probation. The sentence imposed by           freedom. Even a minor violation —               new offense, there is no right to a jury       prison sentences, only where absolutely
Persky — the same judge who presided         e.g., failure to report to your probation       trial when charged with a probation            necessary.
over the trial — was entirely consistent     officer, even on one occasion, or a one-        violation. A judge sitting alone hears            The vengeful model of sentencing
with the probation officer’s recommen-       time violation of a no drug or alcohol          the matter.                                    has proven over and over again to lead
dation. Turner had no prior record.          condition — can result in the revocation           To find a violation the judge need          to recidivism, overcrowded prisons,
   The perceived leniency of Persky’s        of probation and imposition of a previ-         only determine that the evidence proves        and little or no true comfort or safety,
sentence set off a near public lynching      ously suspended prison sentence.                the violation by a preponderance of the        for the victims.
of both Turner and Persky. A media              So what does three years of formal           evidence, not proof beyond a reasonable           We should support Persky’s rehabil-
and social media lynching that were          probation really mean in the context            doubt, as required at a jury trial.            itation-motivated sentence, as an ex-
witnessed by the entire nation. Calls for    of the Brock Turner case? Based on                 If the judge, after hearing evidence        tension of the progressive movement’s
Persky to resign or face a recall election   the nature of Turner’s convictions, the         of the alleged violation, concludes that       call, for an end to our country’s failed
over the case continue to this day.          terms and conditions of his probation           Turner has in fact violated his proba-         mass incarceration policies.
   Before retiring as a career public        are multiple, complex, restrictive and          tion, the judge can then sentence him to
defender I handled hundreds, if not          appropriately oppressive.                       the maximum sentence, he faced at the          Aram James is a retired Santa Clara
thousands, of felony probation viola-           As an example, while on probation,           time of the original sentencing.               County deputy public defender and a
tions. I can attest to the fact that young   Turner was ordered by Persky to par-               In my experience, judges assigned           cofounder of the Albert Cobarrubias
offenders, closely supervised on felony      ticipate in and complete an approved            to hear probation violations are some          Justice Project (ACJP), a grassroots le-
probation, frequently fail to make it        sex offender program, of not less than          of the most putative jurists on the                                      gal advocacy
through formal probation unscathed.          one year, and up to the entire three-           bench. Need I say, that given the media                                  organization
The numerous potential pitfalls of           year term of his probation. His failure         attention and wave of vitriol directed at                                located in
formal probation are an important rea-       to complete this program, or for that           Tuner, he will be the closest watched                                    San Jose.
son why the six-month initial county         matter any other program ordered by             probationer in America.
jail sentence cannot be viewed in a          the court, would trigger a revocation              Given the dizzying probationary
vacuum. To understand the severity of        and a potential prison sentence.                maze faced by Turner, it is hard to
the punishment, one must understand             As part of the sex offender program,         quarrel with Persky’s initial sentence.
the part probation plays in the overall      Turner will be required to submit to               As a society ruined by the scorch of
sentencing scheme.                           polygraph exams to monitor and ensure           over incarceration, it is critical that we
   Defendants, who may have initially        compliance with the program.                    have judges who have the discretion to
received what appears to be a light, or         As a further public safety measure,          encourage a rehabilitative model-first
restorative-justice inspired sentence,       Turner will be required to waive his            approach, while at the same time impos-        ARAM JAMES
                                                                                                                                            Albert Cobarrubias Justice Project
for a serious crime, often end up serv-      psychotherapist-patient privilege, al-          ing severe conditions of probation that
                     Reprinted with permission from the Daily Journal. ©2016 Daily Journal Corporation. All rights reserved. Reprinted by ReprintPros 949-702-5390.
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/12/2018 11:15 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                Laura Seitel <lseitel@mac.com>
Sent:                                Sunday, February 11, 2018 9:21 PM
To:                                  Council, City
Cc:                                  Owen, Graham; Gitelman, Hillary; Lait, Jonathan
Subject:                             First Baptist Church: Please Deny CUP




           Dear City Council Members,

                I am writing to ask that you deny the First Baptist Church’s CUP application for community center
       status. The church is in a location singularly unsuited for the level of activity this would permit at the site. Unlike
       other such institutions in Palo Alto, the First Baptist Church is separated from its nearest neighbors by a mere 13 feet
       on one side and 37 feet on the other (The 37-foot-space includes the church driveway and its eight parking
       spaces.) The level of noise, car traffic, foot traffic and parking congestion that has been the norm at the church for
       many years has turned a tranquil residential area into a commercial free-for-all and has profoundly disturbed the
       peace and tranquility of all citizens living nearby.

                My husband and I bought our home next to the church in 1983. We carefully observed the level of activity
       at the church at that time and generally found it to behave in a way that respected the fact that it had close
       neighbors. Sunday mornings were, of course, busy with those attending services and a few other non-intrusive
       events were occasionally held during the week. But the neighborhood was relaxed and friendly and it remained
       possible to enjoy tranquility in our homes.

                 About a decade ago, this peaceable coexistence began to disintegrate: the church now operates an all-day,
       deep-into-the-night commercial enterprise. Church spaces have been rented to well over forty organizations which
       has resulted in a constant stream of car and foot traffic, parking congestion, loud noise and littering. Renters keep
       doors and windows of the church annex open during rock concerts, parties, dance and singing events, loud political
       meetings, etc. Often these events spill out of the annex to the church lawn and neighborhood sidewalks. Events start
       early in the morning and end after 11 PM at night. My husband and I regularly hear noisy cleanup from parties and
       performances, sometimes as late as 12:30 A.M. In addition, there is no one from the church monitoring these
       activities whom neighbors can contact.

                Needless to say these events at the church have disturbed the peace of neighbors for many blocks around
       it. The wider Palo Alto community is also affected. Students bicycling to and from Jordan Middle School on North
       California Avenue and to and from Palo Alto High School on Bryant Street are endangered by the steady stream of
       cars brought into the neighborhood. This is particularly troubling since the city has designated Bryant Street a
       bicycle-friendly route and has recently created bicycle lanes along North California Avenue. On dark, rainy
       evenings, we often observe cars parked and double-parked for blocks near the church along with many other cars
       slowing in the darkness to spot a particular child or a parking space opening up.

                 Car movement and doors opening into the bicycle lane under conditions of low visibility are dangerous to
       cyclists and pedestrians trying to cross the street. The few newly-designated spots for short-term parking along the
       church curb are an ineffective band-aid for this problem. The parking regulations are not observed or enforced, the
       amount of traffic overwhelms their efficacy and residents of the neighborhood have even fewer places they can
       park.

                In sum, the particular geography of the residential neighborhood surrounding the First Baptist Church
       makes it especially unsuitable for both it’s current out-of-compliance activities and the increase of activity that
       community center status would allow it. I hope you will vote to restore a reasonable level of tranquility and safety
       in our neighborhood by denying the church’s CUP application.



                                                                  1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/12/2018 11:15 AM

               Respectfully yours,


               Laura Seitel




Loy D. Martin
170 Glenn Way, #11
San Carlos, CA 94070
loymartin@icloud.com
www.loymartinfurniture.com




                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/14/2018 2:48 PM


Brettle, Jessica

From:                                 Bill Whitmer <bill.whitmer@yahoo.com>
Sent:                                 Tuesday, February 13, 2018 12:30 PM
To:                                   Council, City; Gitelman, Hillary; Keene, James
Subject:                              First Baptist Church Permit Application


Dear Council Members,

We urge you to approve the application of First Baptist Church for a conditional use permit to operate as a community center. The
church has provided space for many organizations which improve service to the broad Palo Alto community and should be
encouraged to continue to do so. We've lived about a block from the church for forty years and have felt that they have consistently
operated in an appropriate and considerate fashion. While occasional minor traffic issues occur, they have never, in our opinion, been
an inconvenience worth attention. Noise has never been an issue.

We believe the conclusions presented by SaveResidentialNeighborhoods@gmail.com misrepresent the situation.

We find the apparent rise of NIMBYism in our community a serious potential threat to the character of the community we joined
many years ago. Please do what you can to preserve the character of our wonderful community by supporting community service
organizations who are so important to our vitality.

Respectfully,

Jan and Bill Whitmer




                                                                   1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/14/2018 2:35 PM       Please Contact the Clerk’s Office
                                                                      to View Additional Pages,
                                                                  Attachments, or Images Related
Brettle, Jessica                                                          to this Document


From:                             Keith Ferrell <ferrell.keith@gmail.com>
Sent:                             Monday, February 12, 2018 4:32 PM
To:                               Kamhi, Philip
Cc:                               Council, City; Shikada, Ed; Keene, James
Subject:                          Re: Follow up questions from Southgate RPP meeting



Thanks Philip,

I do have some clarifying questions.

1) What do you mean by "...measured practical supply based on how the block is utilized, and not based on
strict set-back laws (5 ft from driveways, etc...). Illegal parking was not included." What is block
utilization? What is the size of the parking spaces they used? What is "practical supply"? You state that illegal
parking was not included but also say that it's not based on set-back laws. Those seem to contradict
themselves. This response if extremely vague and doesn't really answer the question.

One of the issues we have had in the past is that cars park close to driveways and also behind driveways on the
opposite side of the street. Given the narrowness of the streets, a car cannot back out of their driveway. For a
visual representation, see page 30 of 42 of the Southgate RPP petition.

Also, the reason given at the council meeting does not make sense. Even if we add in the 59 spaces on El
Camino and Churchill that were claimed to have not been counted originally, the numbers still don't work
out. Before any occupancy numbers are given to council in the future, I would like to see a detailed count of
some of the blocks on Southgate. Again, we've gone out and hand-measured the streets and our numbers are far
different than what is being provided. I believe we are entitled to some due diligence on the calculations.

2) You state that you are correcting signage to clarify where the RPP begins. There's nothing to correct. There
is no signage on ECR adjacent to 1681-1691 ECR. My question then, is why was it continually stated in the
meeting that that area WAS part of the RPP?

6) I think we're looking at different photos. Photo on the right side of page 14 of the presentation shows
"Escobita Ave, January 24, 2018 (with RPP)" That seems to have been taken by staff and is of Manzanita
looking west from Castilleja.

7) Yes, I agree the video is part of the neighborhood which is part of the Southgate RPP. But, you must agree
that the video is extremely misleading given that the topic of the meeting was to look at additional permits
which would affect the entire opposite corners of the neighborhood. I find it hard to believe that staff felt that
the area in the video was the best way to represent the current situation of the streets most affected by an
increase in permits. It is similar to giving neighborhood-wide occupancy numbers instead of focusing on the
areas that will actually be affected.


On Mon, Feb 12, 2018 at 2:32 PM, Kamhi, Philip <Philip.Kamhi@cityofpaloalto.org> wrote:

 Keith,


                                                              1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/14/2018 2:35 PM



 1. The contractor measured practical supply based on how the block is utilized, and not based on strict set‐back laws
 (5ft from driveways, etc.). Illegal parking was not included.

 2. Yes, Southgate begins approximately 200ft North of Park Blvd, and Evergreen Park‐Mayfield is on the South side of
 this. We will be correcting signage to clarify this, and are currently working with our contractor on this.

 3.   We will review this red curb adjacent to 1681 El Camino Real.

 4.   Thanks for this comment, we will use it for our next data collection effort.

 5.   Thanks, you are correct , stickers should not have been included.

 6. Thanks for your correction. I copied the photo of “Escobita Ave” from the original resident petition, where it was
 listed as such (page 40 of attached).

 7.   The video is of a part of the neighborhood and is part of the Southgate RPP.



 From: Keith Ferrell [mailto:ferrell.keith@gmail.com]
 Sent: Friday, February 09, 2018 12:52 PM
 To: Kamhi, Philip
 Cc: Council, City; Shikada, Ed; Keene, James
 Subject: Re: Follow up questions from Southgate RPP meeting




 Hi Philip,

 I haven't received a response yet on this past email. I did see that it went in as a public records request and I
 received the data on the block by block occupancy and also the slides from the presentation. I still haven't
 received information on how spaces were calculated or clarification on El Camino north of Park. Some other
 comments:



 1) How were the number of available parking spaces calculated by the contractor? Their numbers are still too
 high. Staff's original number was 478 spaces. (Residents counted 470). The new count done in January 2018
 is 581. You stated at the council meeting that the discrepancy was due to not counting El Camino or Churchill
 as they were on the outer parts of the neighborhood. Just to note, the resident count DOES include those
 blocks. So, according to your explanation, if we take the original 478 and add the spaces on El Camino and
 Churchill, we should get the 581 spaces counted in January. However, there are 59 spaces on the January
 count on those two blocks. I would argue that even that number is too high. But, we'll continue with those
 numbers. Taking the 478 and adding the 59, we arrive at 537 spaces, which is still 44 spaces short of the
 581. A quick calculation, which took me about 2 minutes to get the numbers, would have told you that your
 explanation of the variance was incorrect. This is exactly what I'm talking about when I've stated that staff
 needs to provide better and more honest information to council to make their decisions. It only causes
 confusion and frustration with everyone involved. There is no reason to state something as fact when you
 know it is not true. Once again I will ask that you provide me with the method used to calculate the number of
                                                              2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/14/2018 2:35 PM
 available spaces. I've reviewed the backup for the latest count and the numbers are all too high. Unless they
 are using smaller parking spaces, or not leaving enough room for cars to get out of their driveway, there's no
 way those numbers are an accurate reflection of the available parking spaces. If you would like, I can walk
 you down some of the streets and we can measure how many actual spaces fit on one of our blocks. Please let
 me know if you would like to take me up on the offer. I might even be able to get enough cars to fill the block
 to the capacity provided in these counts and we can see if anyone can get out of their driveway without hitting
 another car. Again, let's provide realistic numbers if we're looking for realistic solutions.



 2) With regards to El Camino Real from Park going north, if this is, in fact part of the RPP as stated multiple
 times in the meeting, when can we expect a) signs to go up stating that and b) enforcement? If this is not going
 to happen then it needs to be removed from the RPP and further reference to it being part of the Southgate RPP
 can stop. There needs to be an official declaration of this so there is no confusion in the future.



 3) There is a curb adjacent to 1681 El Camino that used to be red (for visibility and safety) and has recently
 been painted over. Was this done by the city or by someone else? (see two photos in original email. One with
 red curb, one without)



 4) In the original and subsequent meetings on the Southgate RPP, staff shows the original occupancy
 data. Those numbers were taking during the last week of school, when seniors were no longer in school and
 the school was NOT enforcing parking permits. We mentioned this at the time the survey was taken, but staff
 did not seem to care or take that into consideration. The real numbers were actually much higher than what is
 shown in that study.



 5) Looking at the presentation slides, on page 6 it shows 562 Resident Permits for Southgate. That's
 incorrect. According to the file given to me by the city, and feel free to confirm, Southgate residents have 220
 stickers and 142 hangtags (plus 112 scratchers which we are not counting, otherwise, employee permits would
 total 100 if we're being consistent). This will affect other numbers on that slide. Please note that 25 permits in
 Southgate would put the percentage of employee permits compared to the available parking spaces higher than
 that of downtown. Does it make sense for a residential neighborhood to have a higher percentage of
 employees occupying parking spaces than a downtown area?



 6) Right picture on page 14 is NOT Escobita Ave. It is Manzanita looking west from Castilleja.



 7) The video that was shown in the meeting is horribly misleading. That portion of the neighborhood is on the
 complete opposite end of the neighborhood from where the impacts will be felt from any additional employee
 permits. It was irresponsible of you to show that video and not at least mention that it was taking in an area
 that had nothing to do with what was being discussed.

                                                              3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/14/2018 2:35 PM



 Would love to get a response on these items.



 Thanks

 Keith Ferrell



 On Tue, Jan 30, 2018 at 11:30 AM, Keith Ferrell <ferrell.keith@gmail.com> wrote:

 Phillip,

 I had a few follow up questions and comments from last night's meeting that I'm hoping you can help me with.



 1) Can I get a copy of the slides you showed at last night's meeting? I'm most interested in the block by block
 occupancy and the comparison of neighborhood permit percentages.



 2) Can I also get a detail of how the parking spaces in Southgate were determined? The May 2017 survey
 counted 478 spaces. In January 2018, the count was 581 spaces. In the meeting last night you mentioned that
 the difference was due to not counting El Camino and, I believe, Churchill, is that correct? Jim McFall and I
 hand counted spaces in 2017 and counted 470, including El Camino and Churchill. The number of spaces
 along El Camino and Chuchill totals 50 spaces. So, even using the 478 spaces and adding 50, we still are over
 50 spaces short of the 581 being quoted. Given that there is a block by block occupancy, there must also be a
 block by block availability. Can you send me a copy of that?



 3) Staff continues to stick to that 30% showrate. Before the Southgate RPP goes back before council at the
 six-month mark, I request that a count be done of the showrate of Southgate RPP employee permits.



 4) Staff mentioned that the Southgate RPP includes ALL of El Camino Real from Churchill to Park. While
 that might be how it shows in the city's parking map, there is a gap in the RPP north from Park for
 approximately 250 feet. There is no signage in that area, and there are cars parking there without permits. In
 addition, there was a red curb that has since been painted over with white paint (see photos below). The third
 photo merely shows a lack of RPP signage.
 I don't see any of this as being an issue, as it allows 1681 employees that ability to park and does not interfere
 with any residences. However, I feel staff should refrain from calling this out as part of the RPP when, in fact,
 it is not being enforced as such.


                                                              4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/14/2018 2:35 PM
 5) There seems to be a fair amount of confusion as to the specifics of the Southgate neighborhood. It would be
 a good idea if residents, businesses and staff (including council members) to take a tour of the area so everyone
 is on the same page. It is frustrating to be in the audience of a council meeting and hearing staff and council
 make statements that are not correct and can be easily clarified/corrected.



 Thanks
 Keith Ferrell




 Red Curb outside 1681 El Camino (Sept 2017)




                                                              5
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/8/2018 2:55 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                                  Reichental, Jonathan
Sent:                                  Wednesday, February 07, 2018 5:52 PM
To:                                    jfleming@metricus.net
Cc:                                    Clerk, City; Architectural Review Board; Council, City; Keene, James
Subject:                               FW: Update from Palo Alto's United Neighbors


Dear Ms. Fleming:

While my name is listed as a representative of the City of Palo Alto on the Joint Venture’s Steering Committee on
Wireless Communication, I want to let you know that I have never attended any of their meetings. This is simply an
uncompensated, volunteer opportunity for which, to date, I have not participated in.

In addition, I am not involved in any way with the cell towers your email below cites. To my knowledge this is being
handled by our Planning and Utilities Departments.

I will be requesting to have my name removed from the Joint Venture’s Steering Committee on Wireless Communication
as it is unfair for me to be associated with something I have never been involved in.

Thank you.

____________________________________________________________
Jonathan Reichental, Ph.D. :: Chief Information Officer :: City of Palo Alto :: @PaloAltoCIO
Assistant: jeanny.weatherford@cityofpaloalto.org :: 650‐329‐2182



From: Jeanne Fleming [mailto:jfleming@metricus.net]
Sent: Wednesday, February 07, 2018 2:49 PM
To: Council, City <city.council@cityofpaloalto.org>
Cc: Clerk, City <city.clerk@cityofpaloalto.org>; Architectural Review Board <arb@cityofpaloalto.org>
Subject: Update from Palo Alto's United Neighbors

We at United Neighbors thought you might be interested in this email we recently circulated.

Dear Neighbors,

The Architectural Review Board (ARB) will not be holding a hearing this month to consider Verizon’s
resubmitted plans to install its first 15 cell towers in Palo Alto’s residential neighborhoods. Verizon
has asked to submit yet another set of plans (we’ve lost count of how many resubmissions this
makes), and the Planning Department tells us that once they’ve received and reviewed these
materials, they will schedule the ARB hearing.

The Planning Department also tells us that the “shot clock” on these installations, which was set to
expire on February 14th, will be set back to a date after the ARB hearing. As you may remember, the
reason this matters is that if the shot clock expires before the City has reached a decision on the
proposed cell towers, the cell towers are deemed to have been approved.

                                                                   1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/8/2018 2:55 PM
On a related front: Have you ever heard of an organization called Joint Venture Silicon
Valley? Neither had we, until we learned that Palo Alto’s Chief Information Officer and Chief
Technology Officer, Jonathan Reichental, serves on Joint Venture’s Steering Committee on Wireless
Communication. This matters because Joint Venture is funded in part by the same telecom firms that
are pressing Palo Alto to allow cell towers to be installed next to residents’ homes.

Not only that, serving on the Steering Committee with Dr. Reichental are, among other telecom
industry players: 1) William Hammett, President and CEO of Hammett & Edison, an engineering firm
hired by Verizon to assist in Verizon’s current effort to install cell towers here; 2) Patti Ringo,
President of the California Wireless Association, a telecom industry lobbying group; and 3) Randall
Schwabacher, Manager of Small Cell Deployment NorCal at AT&T Wireless, who oversees AT&T’s
current effort to install cell towers in Palo Alto.

This Steering Committee, of which Palo Alto’s Chief Information Officer and Chief Technology Officer
is a member, formally supports the telecom industry’s efforts to revive SB649, the bill vetoed by
Governor Brown that would strip municipalities such as ours of any right to control what a telecom
company installs in a public right of way. To remind you, the City of Palo Alto’s official policy on
SB649 has been to oppose it.

At the very least, it is improper for Dr. Reichental to serve on a board: 1) funded and controlled by the
telecom industry; 2) filled with senior representatives of companies with applications to install cell
towers currently pending in Palo Alto; and 3) committed to goals at odds with the interests and policy
of the city that employs him.

United Neighbors has filed a Public Records Act request with Palo Alto for all correspondence to or
from Dr. Reichental related to the subject of telecommunications. We will let you know what more we
learn when the City responds to our request.

We have also requested City Manager James Keene’s correspondence on the same subject. Mr.
Keene is on the Board of Directors of Joint Venture, and there is reason to believe that he, too, has a
substantial conflict of interest with respect to the Verizon and AT&T applications that are currently
before the City.

That’s what’s happening. Thank you for your consideration and for your continued concern about the
telecom industry’s plans to litter our residential neighborhoods with now 125 large, ugly, radiation-
emitting cell towers.

We’ll keep you posted.

Jeanne, Jerry & Jyo
for United Neighbors




                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/12/2018 11:27 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Janet Cook <janet.teazel.cook@gmail.com>
Sent:                          Thursday, February 08, 2018 11:29 AM
To:                            Council, City
Subject:                       Fwd: In support of CEDAW



please note……


       Begin forwarded message:

       From: Janet Cook <janet.teazel.cook@gmail.com>
       Subject: In support of CEDAW
       Date: February 8, 2018 at 11:12:44 AM PST
       To: hrc@cityofpaloalto.org
       Cc: citycouncil@cityofpaloalto.org

       Greetings to the Human Relations Commission,

       Pay Equity is one of the biggest issues facing women of today. Palo Alto National Organization
       for Women conducted a campaign in the 1980s and early 1990s to gain pay equity for Palo Alto
       employees. Today we have a chance to take that work a step closer to fruition…..by supporting
       CEDAW. I sincerely urge the Human Relations Commission of Palo Alto to recommend that the
       City Council pass an ordinance based on the Convention of the Elimination of all forms of
       Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW), a UN treaty signed by President Carter, but never
       reported out of committee by the U.S. Senate. Since the U.S. has not passed the ordinance, cities
       and counties around the country are passing resolutions and ordinances to implement the
       provisions of CEDAW. Other California cities and counties that have passed such an ordinance
       are San Francisco, Los Angeles, Santa Clara County, San Jose and Berkeley. Palo Alto has a
       resolution supporting CEDAW. Now is the time for Palo Alto to pass an ordinance that would
       implement the sentiments in the resolution. Please support the ordinance.

       Thank you.
       Janet Cook




                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/12/2018 11:27 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                stevendlee@gmail.com on behalf of Steven D. Lee <stevendlee@alumni.duke.edu>
Sent:                                Thursday, February 08, 2018 9:26 AM
To:                                  Council, City
Subject:                             League of Women Voters of Palo Alto Letter of Support for HRC February 8 Agenda
                                     items IV 1 and 2
Attachments:                         LWVPA LTR HRC-CEDAW.docx



FYI.



---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: HRC <hrc@cityofpaloalto.org>
Date: Thu, Feb 8, 2018 at 8:45 AM
Subject: FW: February 8 Agenda items IV 1 and 2
To: "Van Der Zwaag, Minka" <Minka.VanDerZwaag@cityofpaloalto.org>


Another letter.




               Minka van der Zwaag

               Manager, Office of Human Services
               4000 Middlefield Rd. T2 | Palo Alto, CA 94303
               650‐463‐4953 | minka.vanderzwaag@cityofpaloalto.org


               Please think of the environment before printing this email – Thank you




From: LWV of Palo Alto [mailto:lwvpaoffice@gmail.com]
Sent: Wednesday, February 07, 2018 4:24 PM
To: HRC
Subject: February 8 Agenda items IV 1 and 2




Dear Chair Stinger and Commissioners,



                                                                1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/12/2018 11:27 AM
Attached please find our letter regarding Agenda items IV 1 and 2.



Thank you,



Bonnie Packer

President

League of Women Voters of Palo Alto
3921 E. Bayshore Road
Palo Alto, CA 94303
(650) 903-0600




                                                       2
     THE LEAGUE
OF WOMEN VOTERS
    OF PALO ALTO
       3921 E. BAYSHORE RD., SUITE 209 • PALO ALTO, CALIFORNIA 94303 • 650-903-0600 • www.lwvpaloalto.org




February 7, 2018


Valerie Stinger, Chair
Human Relations Commission
250 Hamilton Ave
Palo Alto, CA 94301


Re: February 8, 2018, Agenda items IV 1 and 2.

Dear Chair Stinger and Human Relations Commissioners,

The League of Women Voters, at its national, state and local levels, believes that no person
or group should suffer legal, economic, or administrative discrimination, and that due
process should be afforded to all persons, including the right to a fair hearing, right to
counsel, right of appeal and right to humane treatment. The League of Women Voters also
supports the ratification of the United Nations Convention on the Elimination of All Forms
of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW).

In December of 2016, the League of Women Voters of Palo Alto (LWVPA) urged the Palo
Alto City Council to adopt Resolution No. 9653: Reaffirming Palo Alto’s Commitment to a
Diverse, Supportive, Inclusive, and Protective Community, which the City Council did.

Accordingly, LWVPA supports the recommendation to forward to the City Council the
consideration of a local CEDAW ordinance as described in the Ad Hoc CEDAW Committee
Memo.

Thank you.


Thank you,



Bonnie Packer
President
League of Women Voters of Palo Alto
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/14/2018 2:54 PM


Brettle, Jessica

From:                             Nancy Martin <nancy.martin@mac.com>
Sent:                             Tuesday, February 13, 2018 10:49 PM
To:                               jmordo@losaltosca.gov
Cc:                               elewis@ci.atherton.ca.us; Mike wasseman Scc Gov; Council, City;
                                  mlbernald@saratoga.ca.us; gcwaldeck@losaltoshills.ca.gov;
                                  awengert@portolavalley.net; Scharff, Greg
Subject:                          Legal action -FAA for NextGen
Attachments:                      attachment 1.pdf; attachment 1.pdf


Dear council member Mordo,

I have been following the work of Sky-posse, stopjetnoise and other grass roots groups working to overturn the
Next Gen decision for the past couple years. I am as frustrated as they are.

As I sit here writing this, two very loud airbuses have already roared over our house in Los Altos, and will
continue to do so until at least 2:00 a.m.

We can’t step outside of our house without hearing the sound of an aircraft within a minute or less. If it’s not an
whining Airbus or a 777 from Tokyo headed to SFO, then it’s a private jet or a prop plane flying out of Palo
Alto or San Carlos.

Los Altos and Mt. View are positioned in a vortex of flight paths for SFO, Palo Alto and San Carlos and It will
get worse when the new SFO Terminal One expansion opens in 2020,

I have attached a couple screen shots from Flightradar24. I hope you are familiar with the app. It shows how
the FAA violates their own 8,000 ft altitude rule every day.

I’m speaking up because it’s very clear that the FAA has no intention of changing NexGen’s flight routes.
They are trying to wear us out and hope we will eventually give up, but how can we when we’re reminded
of it with constant noise 20 hours a day?

Next Gen was a poor decision made by a small group of people that is affecting hundreds of thousands, not just
in our area, but all over the United States.

The FAA is not going to change anything unless we, as a collective, initiate legal action as the city of
Phoenix did back in June 2015.

The city manager sent a very straight forward letter threatening a petition for judicial review of the
FAA’s actions. Amazingly, the FAA responded that very day. I have attached a copy of that letter if you
haven’t seen it already.

Phoenix confronts the FAA with their empty promises and blatant disregard for “The intolerable levels
of noise inflicted on residents never given a voice in the very process that has destroyed their quality of life.”




                                                              1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/14/2018 2:54 PM
The FAA had the opportunity change Next Gen three years ago and they didn’t. Why would they now? I am
proposing we follow in the footsteps of the Phoenix City Manager and send a letter of intent to sue to the
FAA.

If every city on the peninsula filed a suit against them, we may finally get something done about this disaster.
This is why I’ve copied the others on this email. We need their leadership to make this happen.

This is my request to all of you reading this letter.....
 Please get your city attorneys on this and let’s escalate the case. If we don’t see progress after sending a
letter of intent to sue, then we need to file individual city suits and overwhelm them. There is power in
numbers.

I’m sure if all our local city attorneys came together, they would come up with the right course of action. Never
underestimate the power of the group mind.

I know the city of Los Altos has a
top-notch city attorney and I’m hoping you will lead the way and have her begin by composing the first letter
similar to the Phoenix letter.

We need to make it uncomfortable and costly for the FAA to ignore us before they will truly consider sending
the planes back over the coast and out of our neighborhoods.

I look forward to hearing from you.
Please feel free to contact me at
(650) 515-5498.

Thank you,
Nancy Martin
Los Altos




                                                              2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/14/2018 2:54 PM




                                                              3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/12/2018 11:16 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Keri Wagner <keriwagner@gmail.com>
Sent:                             Saturday, February 10, 2018 4:12 PM
To:                               Keene, James; Council, City
Cc:                               Keri Wagner
Subject:                          Love the Ross Rd Bike Improvements!


Dear City Council Members and Mr Keene — My husband and I just spent this sunny February afternoon cycling around
Palo Alto. I am a rather new cyclist. The new roundabout at Ross Rd and Meadow works beautifully, our two bikes and a
couple of cars circled through easily. We continued north on Ross Rd to enjoy the safety improvements with plenty of
space for our bikes and passing cars. Before the improvements, Ross Rd was so wide it invited cars to speed. Ross Rd is
much safer now and more pleasant to cycle with cars traveling at a reasonable speed.

Thank you for continuing to improve our bikeways in Palo Alto. I can’t wait until the Wilkie Way improvements begin!
Sincerely,
Keri Wagner
Edlee Ave, Palo Alto




                                                           1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/12/2018 11:18 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                Roberta Ahlquist <roberta.ahlquist@sjsu.edu>
Sent:                                Friday, February 09, 2018 8:41 PM
To:                                  Council, City; cityofpaloalto@cityofpaloalto.org
Subject:                             Medicine Hat is doing it



Council Folks,
This is worth a look.

https://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/26/world/canada/homeless-canada-medicine-hat-housing-first.html

Roberta Ahlquist,
WILPF Low Income Housing Sub-committee




                                                                 1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/12/2018 11:27 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Joan Sommerfield <jsommerfield@earthlink.net>
Sent:                              Thursday, February 08, 2018 11:44 AM
To:                                Council, City
Cc:                                Beth Fuller
Subject:                           Message from the City Council Home Page


Dear Mayor and City Council Members,

As a resident of Palo Alto living on Arbutus Avenue, I have watched with dismay the "bike road" you have made of Ross
Road in the last few weeks. I have been told that you are making this mess with the support of the residents of the city,
but I have not spoken to one resident living on Arbutus who is in favor of it, nor have the Ross Road residents I spoke to
liked it. Ross Road used to be wide road with plenty of room for cars and bikers; now it is so congested that it is
dangerous. You certainly did not get the support of the neighborhood before starting the work. I have spoken to
several people who attended the meetings who said they were ignored when they raised objections and were assured
"people" supported it. Ross Road does not go far enough to be a useful bike road, especially ending in Oregon as it
does, and local residents were aware of that, including the bikers.

I drive home along Ross, since it is the most direct way to Loma Verde and Alma, and this week three bikers (adults)
crossed in front of me to try to squeeze through the narrow space between two planters by the YMCA. The road bump
has a space in the middle so they tried to go through that area. I had to come to an almost complete stop to avoid
them. How is that safer than all of us sharing a wide road? There is barely enough room for two cars to get through that
space, much less bikers.

Today I learned that you are planning to build a traffic circle at Louis and East Meadow as well. The one at Ross and
East Meadow is already a problem since it is such a small intersection. One doesn't need both a circle and stop signs at a
normal traffic circle as anyone who has driven in Europe knows.
Once again it is making the road less safe, since the stop signs were clear and everyone knew what was expected, which
they don't seem to know now.

PLEASE do not make another traffic circle at Louis, and do not even think of another bike route on Louis!!!! Leave us
one road to travel in South Palo Alto that is not full of unnecessary obstacles.

I beg you to listen to the residents of the neighborhood, not people who think to themselves, "Oh, that would make a
nice bike street," without any idea of the impact on the local residents.

Thank you for listening,
Joan Sommerfield
3532 Arbutus
February 8, 2018




                                                            1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/12/2018 11:24 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Jeanne Fleming <jfleming@metricus.net>
Sent:                         Friday, February 09, 2018 8:36 AM
To:                           Reichental, Jonathan; Clerk, City; Council, City; Architectural Review Board
Subject:                      Open response to Jonathan Reichental



Dear Dr. Reichental:

Thank you for your email below. I appreciate hearing from you directly.

I hope you will be kind enough to clarify some of the statements you made. Specifically:

   1. You say “I will be requesting to have my name removed from the Joint Venture’s Steering
      Committee on Wireless Communication.” Does this mean you are resigning from the
      committee or not? And, more fundamentally, may Palo Alto’s residents take this as your
      pledge to fully dissociate yourself from the committee and from Joint Venture Silicon Valley’s
      Wireless Communications Initiative? … I ask because, as you know, Verizon, AT&T,
      Vinculums, Crown Castle and Hammett & Edison—companies that together provide
      substantial financial support for Joint Venture Silicon Valley—all are parties to applications
      currently before the City of Palo Alto to install cell towers here.

   2. In your letter, you state that you have received no compensation from Joint Venture Silicon
      Valley for your membership on the Steering Committee on Wireless Communication. To be
      clear, are you saying you have never received any compensation from Joint Venture Silicon
      Valley whatsoever, or only that you have not been been compensated for your membership
      on the Steering Committee for Wireless Communication?

   3. How about travel expenses or other perquisites? Have you, for example, ever attended an
      out-of-town conference or meeting of any sort where any or all of your expenses were paid by
      either Joint Venture Silicon Valley, a company in the telecom industry and/or a telecom
      industry-sponsored organization? For example, did Joint Venture Silicon Valley and/or a
      player in the telecom industry, either directly or indirectly, pick up all or part of the tab for your
      trip to Dubai? If not, who did pay your expenses? And who will be paying for you to attend the
      conference in Israel that you are going to later this month?

   4. You also say Joint Venture’s Steering Committee on Wireless Communication is “something I
      have never been involved in.” Yet in an email last August, Jim Fleming, Manager of
      Telecommunications in the Palo Alto’s Utilities Department, wrote to Assistant Director of
      Planning Jonathan Lait: “A couple of years ago, JVSV [Joint Venture Silicon Valley] started its
      Wireless Communications Initiative. ... Jonathan Reichental is on Wireless Initiative’s
      advisory board and I attend the meetings [bolding added].” I would appreciate it if you
      would explain what’s going on here. It certainly sounds as if Mr. Fleming (no relation to me) is
      attending these meetings in your stead or at your behest. At the very least, he appears to be
      attending with your knowledge and approval. Moreover, this email makes it clear that Palo
      Alto’s Manager of Telecommunications believes your position on that Board is meaningful, and
      not as nominal as you say. (Let me know if you would like a copy of Mr. Fleming’s email.)

                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/12/2018 11:24 AM
    5. In your email to me, you state that “I am not involved in any way with the cell towers your email
       below cites.” But how could you not be? How could Palo Alto’s Chief Technology Officer not
       be involved in the major buildout of telecommunications infrastructure that Verizon, Crown
       Castle, At&T and now Mobilitie are proposing?

         In this regard, I take note that you are part of the ConnectedCity coalition at City Hall (as is Mr.
         Fleming). Plus you publicly champion “smart cities” and 5G, the next generation of broadband
         that is the telecom industry’s raison d’etre for wanting to install dozens and dozens of cell
         towers next to people’s homes here. Are you suggesting that, even though your public
         statements make it clear that you enthusiastically endorse the sort of buildout Verizon
         proposes, the people Palo Alto has hired you to advise—City Staff and City Council—are not
         aware of and guided by your views?

Again, thank you for contacting me. On behalf of the United Neighbors of Palo Alto, I look forward to
your response to the issues I’ve raised.

Sincerely,

Jeanne Fleming

Jeanne Fleming, PhD
JFleming@Metricus.net
650-325-5151


From: Reichental, Jonathan [mailto:Jonathan.Reichental@CityofPaloAlto.org]
Sent: Wednesday, February 7, 2018 5:52 PM
To: jfleming@metricus.net
Cc: Clerk, City <city.clerk@cityofpaloalto.org>; Architectural Review Board <arb@cityofpaloalto.org>; Council, City
<city.council@cityofpaloalto.org>; Keene, James <James.Keene@CityofPaloAlto.org>
Subject: FW: Update from Palo Alto's United Neighbors

Dear Ms. Fleming:

While my name is listed as a representative of the City of Palo Alto on the Joint Venture’s Steering Committee on
Wireless Communication, I want to let you know that I have never attended any of their meetings. This is simply an
uncompensated, volunteer opportunity for which, to date, I have not participated in.

In addition, I am not involved in any way with the cell towers your email below cites. To my knowledge this is being
handled by our Planning and Utilities Departments.

I will be requesting to have my name removed from the Joint Venture’s Steering Committee on Wireless Communication
as it is unfair for me to be associated with something I have never been involved in.

Thank you.

____________________________________________________________
Jonathan Reichental, Ph.D. :: Chief Information Officer :: City of Palo Alto :: @PaloAltoCIO
Assistant: jeanny.weatherford@cityofpaloalto.org :: 650‐329‐2182


                                                                   2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/12/2018 11:24 AM
From: Jeanne Fleming [mailto:jfleming@metricus.net]
Sent: Wednesday, February 07, 2018 2:49 PM
To: Council, City <city.council@cityofpaloalto.org>
Cc: Clerk, City <city.clerk@cityofpaloalto.org>; Architectural Review Board <arb@cityofpaloalto.org>
Subject: Update from Palo Alto's United Neighbors

We at United Neighbors thought you might be interested in this email we recently circulated.

Dear Neighbors,

The Architectural Review Board (ARB) will not be holding a hearing this month to consider Verizon’s
resubmitted plans to install its first 15 cell towers in Palo Alto’s residential neighborhoods. Verizon
has asked to submit yet another set of plans (we’ve lost count of how many resubmissions this
makes), and the Planning Department tells us that once they’ve received and reviewed these
materials, they will schedule the ARB hearing.

The Planning Department also tells us that the “shot clock” on these installations, which was set to
expire on February 14th, will be set back to a date after the ARB hearing. As you may remember, the
reason this matters is that if the shot clock expires before the City has reached a decision on the
proposed cell towers, the cell towers are deemed to have been approved.

On a related front: Have you ever heard of an organization called Joint Venture Silicon
Valley? Neither had we, until we learned that Palo Alto’s Chief Information Officer and Chief
Technology Officer, Jonathan Reichental, serves on Joint Venture’s Steering Committee on Wireless
Communication. This matters because Joint Venture is funded in part by the same telecom firms that
are pressing Palo Alto to allow cell towers to be installed next to residents’ homes.

Not only that, serving on the Steering Committee with Dr. Reichental are, among other telecom
industry players: 1) William Hammett, President and CEO of Hammett & Edison, an engineering firm
hired by Verizon to assist in Verizon’s current effort to install cell towers here; 2) Patti Ringo,
President of the California Wireless Association, a telecom industry lobbying group; and 3) Randall
Schwabacher, Manager of Small Cell Deployment NorCal at AT&T Wireless, who oversees AT&T’s
current effort to install cell towers in Palo Alto.

This Steering Committee, of which Palo Alto’s Chief Information Officer and Chief Technology Officer
is a member, formally supports the telecom industry’s efforts to revive SB649, the bill vetoed by
Governor Brown that would strip municipalities such as ours of any right to control what a telecom
company installs in a public right of way. To remind you, the City of Palo Alto’s official policy on
SB649 has been to oppose it.

At the very least, it is improper for Dr. Reichental to serve on a board: 1) funded and controlled by the
telecom industry; 2) filled with senior representatives of companies with applications to install cell
towers currently pending in Palo Alto; and 3) committed to goals at odds with the interests and policy
of the city that employs him.



                                                           3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/12/2018 11:24 AM
United Neighbors has filed a Public Records Act request with Palo Alto for all correspondence to or
from Dr. Reichental related to the subject of telecommunications. We will let you know what more we
learn when the City responds to our request.

We have also requested City Manager James Keene’s correspondence on the same subject. Mr.
Keene is on the Board of Directors of Joint Venture, and there is reason to believe that he, too, has a
substantial conflict of interest with respect to the Verizon and AT&T applications that are currently
before the City.

That’s what’s happening. Thank you for your consideration and for your continued concern about the
telecom industry’s plans to litter our residential neighborhoods with now 125 large, ugly, radiation-
emitting cell towers.

We’ll keep you posted.

Jeanne, Jerry & Jyo
for United Neighbors




                                                     4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/12/2018 11:16 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Art Liberman <art_liberman@yahoo.com>
Sent:                         Sunday, February 11, 2018 2:57 PM
To:                           Council, City
Subject:                      Parking Fees on SRP developments and traffic from the VA construction



Council - I believe you are now beginning to address the source of the traffic congestion woes that
have increasingly affected Palo Alto. It is drivers from out of town, nearly all driving alone, who come
into Palo Alto to work.

While I support the proposal that would increase fees according to the number of new car trips new
developments are projected to generate, the staff proposal would reduce fees to new developments
in the Stanford Research Park (SRP); this is a mistake! I think you should go one step further; the
important factor is to reduce traffic from those developments, not just mitigate it. You would not
reduce trips by single driver cars in the SRP even if you were to increase those fees to the
developers. If you really want employees to use alternative methods of transportation, you should
compel employers in the SRP to have their employees pay for parking on their
sites (exemptions for car pooling, etc). Stanford University has a policy that requires permit parking
for employees on the university campus, and this has reduced the number of single driver vehicle
trips. The SRP (or their landlord, Stanford University) ought to implement a similar policy, or the City
should require this as part of any new business development project, and even consider making it
retroactive to existing projects as part of SRP's traffic management program.

One more point - traffic increase from a very large new development project in the City of Palo Alto
has not been discussed at all. This is expansion of the PA Veteran's Hospital. In recent years, the VA
has undertaken a very large construction project. A number of new buildings have sprung up on their
campus in the past few years, several are in the middle of construction and more are on the drawing
board. In just the past three years, the VA has built two large multi-story parking garages, a 600 stall
garage and a 750 stall garage. While you are not able to require the Federal Government to abide by
municipal policies and regulations, you should at least include the growth of the VA workforce and its
patient community in projections of traffic just as you have included the traffic impact of the new
Stanford Hospitals.

Arthur Liberman
751 Chimalus Drive




                                                      1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/12/2018 11:26 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Susan C <teachinator@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Thursday, February 08, 2018 4:40 PM
To:                             HRC; Council, City
Cc:                             Forster Mike; Susan Cole
Subject:                        Please do not spend city funds on becoming a CEDAW



Dear City Council and HRC members,

In the interests of fiscal responsibility, I ask you to vote NO on any proposed ordinance that would result in
forming a "gender equality task force" in Palo Alto. I believe this would be an extremely poor use of taxpayer
money.

Women as a class in Silicon Valley have money, legal rights, a social atmosphere that tends to be open to
complaints about gender inequality, and abundant access to public platforms to inform others of any abuses that
may exist. A city-funded task force would be redundant and wasteful.

Sincerely,
Susan Cole
teachinator@gmail.com
420 Stanford Avenue
Palo Alto




                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/12/2018 11:26 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                               Kerstin Johnsson <kbjohnsson@hotmail.com>
Sent:                               Thursday, February 08, 2018 4:15 PM
To:                                 HRC; Council, City
Subject:                            PLEASE VOTE NO on tonight's ordinance authorizing a gender equality task force to
                                    conduct analysis to study gender equality issues affecting Palo Alto



Ladies and gentlemen,

I'm sure you've heard of the site called Nextdoor, where neighbors share information. Well, the other day, a
neighbor posted a notice indicating that there was a vote coming up (tonight apparently) for the following:

"Human Relations Commission will consider asking City Council to adopt a local ordinance implementing principles of
the United Nations (UN) Convention on the Elimination of all forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW). The
ordinance would authorize a gender equality task force to conduct an analysis to study the gender equality issues that
affect the City of Palo Alto and propose policy and programmatic change, if needed." In case you are not aware,
there has been a lot of discussion on Nextdoor since this was posted, mostly by those of us who find this an
enormous waste of our tax dollars.


Personally, I've lived in Palo Alto for over 20 years, most of that time as a single woman in high tech. I have
rarely encountered even the slightest amount of sex discrimination, and when there was even a hint of it, I
addressed it immediately. That is how I, and many of my neighbors, believe sex discrimination (or any form of
discrimination) should be handled, not by throwing our tax money at a group of people bent on searching it out.
As I said on Nextdoor, if this were such a huge issue in Palo Alto, do you really think women in this area
wouldn't be tweeting, Facebooking, and blogging about it? Do you really think women wouldn't go to the
papers with this information? Do you really think smart women like us wouldn't take people and companies
to court over it?

We don't need this "help", and we certainly don't want our precious tax money spent on this nonsense.


Thank you,
Dr. Kerstin Johnsson
2170 Princeton St,
Palo Alto, CA 94306




                                                               1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/12/2018 11:15 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Reine Flexer <reine13@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Saturday, February 10, 2018 8:47 PM
To:                             bpa-issues@googlegroups.com
Cc:                             Council, City
Subject:                        Re: [bpa-issues: 1545] Current Project Critique



I agree with Richard that this is a huge amount of money, the city is bleeding money to contractors. We see that
all the time.

In the meanwhile the question of the animal shelter has not been resolved: the animal shelter is still in limbo
because the city (manager) is not willing to assign a dollar value to it.. We need to have a shelter for our
animals, the city needs to decide to either pay PetsInNeed to upgrade the facility and run the shelter, or the city
should take care of the shelter itself, fixing it and hiring the needed employees: none of the employees who have
left have been replaced. There are pros and cons for each choice,
I don't want to debate it here, but something must be done and yes, this too will cost money no matter what. So
save money on the bridges etc and provide for our pets.

On Sat, Feb 10, 2018 at 7:27 PM, Richard Placone <rcplacone@sbcglobal.net> wrote:
 February 10, 2018

 To: Palo Alto City Council
 Subj. Upcoming projects

 Dear Council Members:

 I am writing to weigh in on several upcoming projects. I hope you will pay attention to these
 remarks, as I consider them my input to projects that will have major consequences on our city,
 some good , some not so good, and all very expensive. My overriding concern is that the city is
 said to be facing serious budget shortfalls. This issue needs to be addressed and resolved before
 we undertake more expensive projects.

 They are in order:

 1. The Arastradero Reconstruction Project
 2. The bike/pedestrian bridge over Highway 101
 3. The Current Ross Road Project
 4. The proposed El Camino Real “Grand Boulevard” project

 1. Arastradero Project

 As I understand this project, the goal is to rebuild the roadway from Foothill Expressway to Fabian
 Avenue. In addition, the present stripping which essentially reduces most of this road from the
 original four lanes to two, with some exceptions, will be made permanent with curbing and
 landscaping. The budget for this project is about $10 million. I believe this is a gross misuse of our
 city’s capital budget for these reasons: a) the roadway is in acceptable condition and does not need
 reconstruction. A road that seriously needs resurfacing is Churchill, not to mention a number of other
                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/12/2018 11:15 AM
streets in the downtown area that are close to third world condition, based on my experience in such
countries; b)worse, the temporary stripping has proven beyond any doubt, that the experiment has
been proven to be a failure. The traffic jams every weekday in the morning and in the late afternoon
are horrendous. I have read letters from time to time pointing out this situation to city
officials. Moreover, the current thinking amongst local residents that I have read or heard about are
opposed to this project. I think before proceeding, it would be wise for council to order staff to
engage in comprehensive meetings with the local community before committing to this very
expensive project.

2. The Highway 101 Bridge

I do not contest the need for this bridge. However, I call to your attention that the city of East Palo
Alto is about to construct a similar bridge over Highway 101 that appears from the drawings to be
much longer than the proposed Palo Alto bridge. That city’s bridge is budgeted for $8.6
million. Ours, according to recent input from one city council member, is now budgeted for $20
million. Please explain to me and to the rest of Palo Alto’s citizens, why East Palo Alto can build
such a bridge for far less than half of what we plan? In my opinion, this discrepancy in cost of the
two bridges amounts to malfeasance on the part of our city government in the use of taxpayer’s
dollars, regardless of the source of those dollars.

3. The Ross Road Project

I have several issues with this project. I have compared this project as it is being built (having driven
its entire length the other day) with the recent reconfiguration of the lane structure on Middlefield
Road (Which I use twice a week going to and from my teaching assignment at Seton School.) This
change works. The same intent to slow traffic and improve the bike paths seems to being achieved
by using sturdy plastic bollards to define bike path from roadway. Cars access to side streets is
controlled by forcing cars to line up with the road before turning right, allowing the adjacent bike lane
to proceed to make the right turn without entering into the car lane. Cars making left turns do not
pose a safety problem.

On Ross road, instead of relatively inexpensive bollards to effect lane control, the project is using
very expensive concrete bulb-outs to achieve the same effect of bike lane separation for cars
making right turns onto side streets, with one dangerous exception. Here, as the bike lane
approaches the side street, the lane necessarily merges directly into the car lane with about a two
foot width. This is because the concrete bulb out does not allow for a bike lane to continue onto the
side street without leaving the lane. Drive the road yourself to see what I mean. I don’t recall what
the Middlefield project cost, but I’m told the Ross Road project is in excess of $8 million.

Finally, driving down East Meadow going East, which I do on regular basis to visit friends, I
discovered that a roundabout is being installed at the Ross Road intersection. This is also a
concrete structure about half way competed, I would guess. I had to negotiate around the structure
very slowly to make the curve. Note that I drive a full size Jaguar, so it is a long car. If I had
trouble, how in the world is a fire truck to get around this curve? Note that there is a fire station at
the corner of Middlefield and East Meadow. Has this been tested? What possible reason is there
for this unnecessary impediment?

4. El Camino Real

What is the thinking going on here? Has the council suddenly succumbed to “Paris Envy”. Please
                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/12/2018 11:15 AM
get real. ECR is a major constantly busy highway at all hours of the day and well into the
evening. Standing on the sidewalk, the noise is all but unbearable. Sidewalk cafes, what with noise
and fumes, will simply not work. Moreover, unless you intend to eliminate all parking, bicycles using
ECL is tempting terrible accidents. As it is now, bikes on ECR is extremely unnerving for the driver,
not to mention the danger to the cyclist. And again, you are talking about spending more millions of
planning, and even more to implement any ill founded grand design. Improve the street landscaping
and require some landscape setbacks for all new construction and you will achieve a better look and
safer highway.

Thank you for your attention to this letter. I hope it brings some common sense and more important,
budget sense to your thinking and decision making. Thank you.

Sincerely,
Richard C. Placone
Chimalus Drive
Palo Alto
--
This email list is maintained by the Barron Park Association.
Join or renew your BPA membership, or get more email list information, at bpapaloalto.org.
Need to check membership status? Contact barronpark.paloalto@gmail.com.
Disclaimer: Any viewpoints in this message are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent those of
the Barron Park Association or the BPA Board.
---
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "Barron Park Association:
Issues" group.
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to bpa-
issues+unsubscribe@googlegroups.com.
To post to this group, send email to bpa-issues@googlegroups.com.
For more options, visit https://groups.google.com/d/optout.




                                                      3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/12/2018 11:19 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Keith Ferrell <ferrell.keith@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Friday, February 09, 2018 1:48 PM
To:                              Kamhi, Philip
Cc:                              Council, City; Shikada, Ed; Keene, James
Subject:                         Re: Follow up questions from Southgate RPP meeting



One quick follow-up

I notice, looking at the parking survey that they break out how many employee permits there are at each
interval. Given the penchant for staff to hold fast to the 30-40% showrate, I'd like to present this city-funded
survey as proof against using that number. According to the survey the number of employee permits in
Southgate are as follows:

Jan 10 9am - 10 employee permits 100% showrate
Jan 10 12pm - 9 employee permits 90% showrate (someone must have gone to lunch)
Jan 10 3pm - 9 employee permits 90% showrate (long lunch)

Jan 11 9am - 6 employee permits 60% (late to work)
Jan 11 12pm - 10 employee permits 100% showrate
Jan 11 3pm - 11 employee permits 110% showrate ( 1 must be EP/Mayfield permit)

Given this data, I request that staff change their Southgate showrate to reflect actual figures and use a 90%
showrate.

Keith Ferrell

On Fri, Feb 9, 2018 at 12:52 PM, Keith Ferrell <ferrell.keith@gmail.com> wrote:
 Hi Philip,
 I haven't received a response yet on this past email. I did see that it went in as a public records request and I
 received the data on the block by block occupancy and also the slides from the presentation. I still haven't
 received information on how spaces were calculated or clarification on El Camino north of Park. Some other
 comments:

 1) How were the number of available parking spaces calculated by the contractor? Their numbers are still too
 high. Staff's original number was 478 spaces. (Residents counted 470). The new count done in January 2018
 is 581. You stated at the council meeting that the discrepancy was due to not counting El Camino or Churchill
 as they were on the outer parts of the neighborhood. Just to note, the resident count DOES include those
 blocks. So, according to your explanation, if we take the original 478 and add the spaces on El Camino and
 Churchill, we should get the 581 spaces counted in January. However, there are 59 spaces on the January
 count on those two blocks. I would argue that even that number is too high. But, we'll continue with those
 numbers. Taking the 478 and adding the 59, we arrive at 537 spaces, which is still 44 spaces short of the
 581. A quick calculation, which took me about 2 minutes to get the numbers, would have told you that your
 explanation of the variance was incorrect. This is exactly what I'm talking about when I've stated that staff
 needs to provide better and more honest information to council to make their decisions. It only causes
 confusion and frustration with everyone involved. There is no reason to state something as fact when you
 know it is not true. Once again I will ask that you provide me with the method used to calculate the number of
                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/12/2018 11:19 AM
available spaces. I've reviewed the backup for the latest count and the numbers are all too high. Unless they
are using smaller parking spaces, or not leaving enough room for cars to get out of their driveway, there's no
way those numbers are an accurate reflection of the available parking spaces. If you would like, I can walk
you down some of the streets and we can measure how many actual spaces fit on one of our blocks. Please let
me know if you would like to take me up on the offer. I might even be able to get enough cars to fill the block
to the capacity provided in these counts and we can see if anyone can get out of their driveway without hitting
another car. Again, let's provide realistic numbers if we're looking for realistic solutions.

2) With regards to El Camino Real from Park going north, if this is, in fact part of the RPP as stated multiple
times in the meeting, when can we expect a) signs to go up stating that and b) enforcement? If this is not going
to happen then it needs to be removed from the RPP and further reference to it being part of the Southgate RPP
can stop. There needs to be an official declaration of this so there is no confusion in the future.

3) There is a curb adjacent to 1681 El Camino that used to be red (for visibility and safety) and has recently
been painted over. Was this done by the city or by someone else? (see two photos in original email. One with
red curb, one without)

4) In the original and subsequent meetings on the Southgate RPP, staff shows the original occupancy
data. Those numbers were taking during the last week of school, when seniors were no longer in school and
the school was NOT enforcing parking permits. We mentioned this at the time the survey was taken, but staff
did not seem to care or take that into consideration. The real numbers were actually much higher than what is
shown in that study.

5) Looking at the presentation slides, on page 6 it shows 562 Resident Permits for Southgate. That's
incorrect. According to the file given to me by the city, and feel free to confirm, Southgate residents have 220
stickers and 142 hangtags (plus 112 scratchers which we are not counting, otherwise, employee permits would
total 100 if we're being consistent). This will affect other numbers on that slide. Please note that 25 permits in
Southgate would put the percentage of employee permits compared to the available parking spaces higher than
that of downtown. Does it make sense for a residential neighborhood to have a higher percentage of
employees occupying parking spaces than a downtown area?

6) Right picture on page 14 is NOT Escobita Ave. It is Manzanita looking west from Castilleja.

7) The video that was shown in the meeting is horribly misleading. That portion of the neighborhood is on the
complete opposite end of the neighborhood from where the impacts will be felt from any additional employee
permits. It was irresponsible of you to show that video and not at least mention that it was taking in an area
that had nothing to do with what was being discussed.

Would love to get a response on these items.

Thanks
Keith Ferrell

On Tue, Jan 30, 2018 at 11:30 AM, Keith Ferrell <ferrell.keith@gmail.com> wrote:
 Phillip,
 I had a few follow up questions and comments from last night's meeting that I'm hoping you can help me
 with.

 1) Can I get a copy of the slides you showed at last night's meeting? I'm most interested in the block by block
 occupancy and the comparison of neighborhood permit percentages.
                                                        2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/12/2018 11:19 AM

 2) Can I also get a detail of how the parking spaces in Southgate were determined? The May 2017 survey
 counted 478 spaces. In January 2018, the count was 581 spaces. In the meeting last night you mentioned that
 the difference was due to not counting El Camino and, I believe, Churchill, is that correct? Jim McFall and I
 hand counted spaces in 2017 and counted 470, including El Camino and Churchill. The number of spaces
 along El Camino and Chuchill totals 50 spaces. So, even using the 478 spaces and adding 50, we still are
 over 50 spaces short of the 581 being quoted. Given that there is a block by block occupancy, there must also
 be a block by block availability. Can you send me a copy of that?

 3) Staff continues to stick to that 30% showrate. Before the Southgate RPP goes back before council at the
 six-month mark, I request that a count be done of the showrate of Southgate RPP employee permits.

 4) Staff mentioned that the Southgate RPP includes ALL of El Camino Real from Churchill to Park. While
 that might be how it shows in the city's parking map, there is a gap in the RPP north from Park for
 approximately 250 feet. There is no signage in that area, and there are cars parking there without permits. In
 addition, there was a red curb that has since been painted over with white paint (see photos below). The third
 photo merely shows a lack of RPP signage.
 I don't see any of this as being an issue, as it allows 1681 employees that ability to park and does not interfere
 with any residences. However, I feel staff should refrain from calling this out as part of the RPP when, in
 fact, it is not being enforced as such.

 5) There seems to be a fair amount of confusion as to the specifics of the Southgate neighborhood. It would
 be a good idea if residents, businesses and staff (including council members) to take a tour of the area so
 everyone is on the same page. It is frustrating to be in the audience of a council meeting and hearing staff and
 council make statements that are not correct and can be easily clarified/corrected.

 Thanks
 Keith Ferrell




 Red Curb outside 1681 El Camino (Sept 2017)




                                                        3
City of Palo Alto   I City Clerk's Office I 2/12/2018 11:19 AM
         ~i~ilt:-. ,. ~   \'"I'll!'~




                                                                 Please Contact the Clerk’s Office
                                                                     to View Additional Pages,
                                                                 Attachments, or Images Related
                                                                         to this Document




  Curb painted white outside 1681 El Camino (Jan 2018)




 No RPP signage El Camino just n01th of Park




                                                       4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/12/2018 11:17 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                 Greg M. Bell <gxbell@me.com>
Sent:                                 Saturday, February 10, 2018 12:30 PM
To:                                   Council, City
Subject:                              Re: gas to electric-powered leaf blowers. I’d like the City Council to explore this option.



I’ve got an idea.

Gas leaf blowers pollute our air - our law is not being enforced. Small gas engines don't have the high-level
pollution control equipment as cars and they have no smog-check requirement, as cars do. As gas blowers age,
they pollute more than when new. I personally smell gas most times when passing by a gas blower in use.

Reality is leaf blowers are not going away, they haven’t regardless of the law. Further, maintenance workers
are not going to use rakes, they are simply too slow. Battery electric blowers are the best choice, but low
income maintenance workers cannot afford new battery-electric blowers.

Here’s the idea.

Let’s offer financing and/or subsidies for battery electric blowers for pro gardeners.

I'd like the Council to explore funding replacing gas leaf blowers (for pro gardener service) with all battery-
electric blowers. Let's take the gas blowers out of service like old 1970's clunker cars, high polluting cars.

Battery electric is the technology leap we need to take. There are battery electric blowers available today, Palo
Alto workers use them now. Make this financing or subsidy idea your greener city priority. I look forward to
your report and action.


Gregory M Bell
Palo Alto Resident
https://sustaintimes.net



——
I type less and talk more by phone.

Greg M. Bell
LinkedIn Profile
Facebook Connection

SustainTimes.net Sustainable Actions Made Easy!

——




                                                                1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/14/2018 2:49 PM


Brettle, Jessica

From:                             Dee Lee <dlee3659@gmail.com>
Sent:                             Tuesday, February 13, 2018 10:49 PM
To:                               Council, City
Subject:                          Ross Rd Bike Blvd


Dear City council !
I am living 3659 Ross Rd since 1986. I am very concern about this Ross Rd Bike Blvd project especially Ross at E Meadow
design.
They are round bouts, which is very very narrow road plus have to circle for turn. Your members – all – should come out
with your car check how it is before they are complete.
My most concern is fire engine, ambulance, moving and big construction material truck passing. There is no way they
could make left turn at all.
Please for citizens safety, make them change their design.
Thank you

Dong Lee




                                                              1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/14/2018 2:56 PM


Brettle, Jessica

From:                             Christy Moision <cmoision@gmail.com>
Sent:                             Wednesday, February 14, 2018 9:25 AM
To:                               Council, City; Ctymgr@cityofpaloalto.org
Subject:                          Ross Road Bike Boulevard



Dear City Council and Mr. Keene,

I am writing in support of the Ross Road bike improvements. I live on Louis, but I use Ross as a biking route
quite often. Even with the construction, I find Ross to be an enjoyable route and I’ve noticed that the cars are
slowing down because of the new features.

I rarely rode a bike as an adult before my family moved to Palo Alto four years ago. I was immediately struck
by the number of kids riding to school, adults commuting to jobs, and older people riding around town. I’d
never seen a bike boulevard before, but I found that even being new to riding I felt comfortable on the calmer
streets. I now try to do as many of my local errands as I can by bike. My whole family commutes by bike and
we value safe and pleasant routes.

I appreciate the measures that the City of Palo Alto is taking to improve our bike network. I am looking forward
to the completion of Phase I of the project and the other improvements coming to Charleston/Arastradero.

Thank you for continuing to support improved bike routes!

Christy Moision
Louis Road
--

Christy Moision
626-390-0343 (cell)




                                                              1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/12/2018 11:25 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                   Larry and Zongqi Alton <lalton@pacbell.net>
Sent:                                   Thursday, February 08, 2018 8:14 PM
To:                                     Council, City
Cc:                                     christy; Ron; Ryan and Mayra Alton; rick panian; karen elaine panian brooke blake;
                                        debbie alton; Kathy Wen; Benjamin Chen
Subject:                                Save the egg- it is our most meaningful art piece



Keep and Maintain Digital DNA (Save the Egg!)




     Keep and Maintain Digital DNA (Save the
     Egg!)
     Unveiled in 2005, Digital DNA is very arguably the most popular and
     culturally significant work of public art th...




Larry Alton




                                                                           1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/14/2018 2:45 PM


Brettle, Jessica

From:                             Amy Christel <amymchristel@gmail.com>
Sent:                             Tuesday, February 13, 2018 8:27 AM
To:                               Palo Alto Airport; Council, City; Swanson, Andrew
Subject:                          Screenshot 2018-02-13 at 8.20.11 AM


Just now, 8:16 am, Feb 13, 2018, over 769 Rosewood Dr. What is going on? Publish these flight paths which are
establishing over PA neighborhoods! Transparency instead of hiding behind excuses. Killing our quality of life with these
horrendous noise machines. Don’t tell me there was traffic over the Bay preventing the takeoff to the right. Clearly, not
the case. At least they could fly along the already noisy freeway.

Amy Christel
769 Rosewood Dr
Palo Alto, CA




                                                              1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/14/2018 2:45 PM




Sent from my iPad




                                                              2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/14/2018 2:38 PM


Brettle, Jessica

From:                             Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com>
Sent:                             Monday, February 12, 2018 10:05 PM
To:                               stephanie@dslextreme.com; cherrill@slac.stanford.edu; chuckjagoda1@gmail.com;
                                  wilpf.peninsula.paloalto@gmail.com; grchippendale@yahoo.com; judyblueeyes1
                                  @gmail.com; roberta.ahlquist@sjsu.edu; allison@padailypost.com;
                                  emibach@padailypost.com; Letters@sfchronicle.com; trudy@myrrh-art.com;
                                  bhushans@aol.com; paloaltofreepress@gmail.com; burdlady@gmail.com; Council, City;
                                  dprice@padailypost.com
Subject:                          Stephanie-here is my piece on the Pesky controversy that allows you and others to
                                  post your own response


http://archives.siliconvalleydebug.org/articles/2016/07/28/brock-turners-probation

Shared via the Google app


Sent from my iPhone




                                                              1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/12/2018 11:25 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                             michelle higgins <mich_higgins@hotmail.com>
Sent:                             Thursday, February 08, 2018 5:41 PM
To:                               HRC
Cc:                               Council, City; Laura Prentiss; John Fitton; Keri Wagner
Subject:                          Support for HRC recommendation for City of Palo Alto to adopt of CEDAW


We urge the Human Relations Commission to support the adoption of a local ordinance implementing the principles of
the UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW).
 We write to you as a group of Palo Alto parents who have been deeply involved in collaborative work with PAUSD to
address the pervasive problem of sexual harassment in our schools.
This work, and the multiple school‐based incidents of sexual harassment that have made it necessary, have served to
reinforce our personal commitment to changing the cultural norms and beliefs that lead to not only sexual harassment
but all forms of gender discrimination.
It is vital that we take stock of the way women and girls in our community are impacted by gender discrimination,
including but not limited to pay equity, sexual harassment (in our workplaces, colleges and schools), intimate partner
violence and sexual assault. The formation of a gender equality taskforce ensures that these issues can be brought into
the light and, most importantly, we can begin to develop effective policies and programs to address them.
In our view, the adoption of CEDAW and the formation of a gender equality task force is long overdue. We hope that the
Human Relations Commission recommends that the City of Palo Alto stands with other cities in implementing the
principles of CEDAW for the good of all in our community.

Sincerely,

Michelle Higgins, Laura Prentiss, John Fitton and Keri Wagner




                                                           1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/12/2018 11:27 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                           Shrout, Kate Berlitz <kshrout@BuckleySandler.com>
Sent:                                           Thursday, February 08, 2018 11:08 AM
To:                                             HRC
Cc:                                             Council, City
Subject:                                        Support for Proposed CEDAW Gender Analysis


Hello,

I’m a Palo Alto resident and attorney advising clients on cultural compliance issues, including how to
identify/prevent/address harassment and discrimination in the work place. I support the proposed CEDAW Gender
Analysis work and related Task Force. Cultural compliance is a critical issue, impacting companies and organizations
across the spectrum. As a leader in innovation, Palo Alto should also be a leader in supporting equality and fairness
among its employees and businesses. If passed, I welcome the opportunity to discuss how my law firm might be able to
support this initiative.

Best,

Kate Berlitz Shrout
Counsel
Buckley Sandler LLP
555 California Street, Suite 4925
San Francisco, CA 94101
T (415) 619‐3445
M (202) 812‐5283
kshrout@buckleysandler.com
www.buckleysandler.com
www.infobytesblog.com




This email message (including any attachments) is only for use by the intended recipient(s) and is presumed confidential. It also may be subject to the attorney-
client privilege or other confidentiality protections and may constitute inside information. If you are not an intended recipient, you may not review, copy, distribute,
or otherwise use this message or its contents. If you received this message in error, please notify the sender and delete this message (including any attachments)
from your system immediately. Any unauthorized reading, copying, distribution, or other use of this message or its contents is strictly prohibited and may be
unlawful.




                                                                                   1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/12/2018 11:27 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Temnee Wright <temneekwright@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Thursday, February 08, 2018 1:05 PM
To:                             HRC
Cc:                             Council, City
Subject:                        Support for Review and consider ad hoc committee report to Council on an ordinance
                                related to CEDAW



Dear Human Rights Commission,

I am writing to support the the first item of business for the first item on the HRC’s Regular Meeting tonight
(February 8th) : Review and consider ad hoc committee report to Council on an ordinance related to the
Convention on the Elimination of all forms of Discrimination against Women – Chair Stinger – Action (60
minutes).

As noted in the staff report, CEDAW advocates for the rights and opportunities of women in all areas of
society. To date, 187 of the 193 UN member states have ratified CEDAW. Although the United States (US) is
one of the few countries who have not ratified the treaty, its premise and principals are important enough for
individual cities to priortize. The city of San Jose and Santa Clara County both passed the CEDAW-type
ordinances in December 2017. I hope that Palo Alto is next.

Respectfully,

Temnee Wright

--
Sent from my phone. Please excuse brevity & typos.




                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/14/2018 2:46 PM


Brettle, Jessica

From:                             Palo Alto Free Press <paloaltofreepress@gmail.com>
Sent:                             Tuesday, February 13, 2018 9:34 AM
To:                               James Aram; swebby@da.sccgov.org; bwelch@dao.sccgov.org; Jay Boyarsky;
                                  jbeiers@smcgov.org; Council, City; Kniss, Liz (external); dangel@da.sccgov.org;
                                  JReifschneider@cityofpaloalto.org; jrosen@da.sccgov.org; Bullerjahn, Rich;
                                  cindy.chavez@bos.sccgov.org; Watson, Ron; roberta.ahlquist@sjsu.edu; Perron,
                                  Zachary; swagstaffe@smcgov.org
Subject:                          Tasers - Tweet by Palo Alto Free Press on Twitter




                                             Palo Alto Free Press (@PAFreePress)

 2/13/18, 11:28 AM
 @rjPAPD Baby cribs to strollers both have caused deaths and injuries recalled or taken off the market

 #Tasers are unregulated

 #Remington firearms American icon files #Chapter11 Reported deaths and injuries. Difference? #ATFE
 regulated facebook.com/PAFreePress/po… @rjPAPD Police remain mute! pic.twitter.com/1ptSTztK5A




Download the Twitter app
Sent from my iPad

                                                              1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/14/2018 2:56 PM


Brettle, Jessica

From:                             chuck jagoda <chuckjagoda1@gmail.com>
Sent:                             Wednesday, February 14, 2018 9:37 AM
To:                               WILPF Peninsula Palo Alto; Albert Cobarubias Justice Project; Paul George @ PPJC; Stop
                                  the Ban Google Discussion Group; dprice@padailypost.com; Council, City
Subject:                          Town Crier story on MV RV meeting last week




https://www.losaltosonline.com/news/sections/news/201-traffic-development/57159-


This is Bruce Barton's write up of the Mountain View RV meeting of last week.


Chuck




  Sent with Mailtrack




                                                              1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/14/2018 2:49 PM


Brettle, Jessica

From:                               Jeff Hoel <jeff_hoel@yahoo.com>
Sent:                               Tuesday, February 13, 2018 4:30 PM
To:                                 UAC
Cc:                                 Hoel, Jeff (external); Council, City; CAC-TACC; ConnectedCity
Subject:                            TRANSCRIPT & COMMENTS -- 02-07-18 UAC meeting -- Item IX.5 -- Fiber Utility
                                    Update


Commissioners,

On 02-07-18, UAC considered a discussion item -- Item 5, "Fiber Utility Update."

02-07-18: UAC agenda:
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/63221
02-07-18: Staff report: Fiber Utility Update:
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/63216

Please see (below the "######" line) a transcript of this item, with my comments (paragraphs beginning with "###").

Thanks.


Jeff

-------------------
Jeff Hoel
731 Colorado Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94303
-------------------

###############################################################################

Video:

http://midpenmedia.org/utilities-advisory-commission-31-2-2-2/

1:29:42:

Commissioner Schwartz (acting Chair): For Item number 5, I have a card from Jeff. Do we have another one? OK. Why
don't you just hand it to me. OK. Great. OK. Jeff, you're up.

1:30:18:

Jeff Hoel: Hi. I'm Jeff Hoel. And I'm a member of the Citizens Advisory Committee on FTTP and Wireless. But tonight
I'm just speaking as an individual. And I've sent you a message about the staff report. I found a number of errors in the
description of history. You can read about that. But tonight I want to talk about something else.

On the first page of the staff report, there are three things I noticed. First of all, staff is requesting UAC feedback. That's a
little weird. UAC's job is advising Council. And when UAC advises Council, if staff wants to listen and get feedback, that's
fine. But you know what your job is.

Second, they're talking about -- the overall objective is to support new and future applications and technologies dependent
on a gigabit-speed broadband. That's too narrow in scope. We want a system for the good of the community that not
only offers a number of speeds, some of which are gigabit, but also offers good prices, good reliability, good customer
service, good privacy, net neutrality, and maybe a bunch of other things.
                                                               1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/14/2018 2:49 PM

Finally, staff is talking about the -- they want to identify a public-private partnership opportunities. That has failed us many
times in the past. And it's failed other communities in the past. Most recently, Fort Collins wasted a year talking with
people like Axia, and found, basically, Axia disappeared at the last minute because they couldn't -- they couldn't find the
money. What I'd like Palo Alto to concentrate on is how to do it ourselves. Fort Collins is doing that. They're moving
ahead. As of this last November, they voted to do it.

Another topic I want to raise. Recently, January 22nd, City Council had an item on their agenda -- the Upgrade
Downtown Project -- and part of that was putting in conduit for fiber, just sort of on speculation. Not because there was a
design that said it needed to be there, but just, as long as the trench is open, you have to put it in. The Fiber Fund was
going to be charged two million bucks to go about half a mile, which is way, way, way, way, way too expensive. And
when staff brought this item to Council, it had -- they originally bid it out, and nobody bid, so they did a single-source
negotiation, and put themselves in a position where Council could either accept this particular contract exactly as is, with
nothing to be changed about it, or they could start over. And Council caved and said, OK, we'll take the project as
is. They did ask staff to come back to find out whether $2 million was the right price for the conduit for fiber. And when
they do that, I hope everybody watches. Because I think it's way too high.

Council Member Scharff, at one point, said, this is a trust issue. When staff comes to us with a utilities contract -- request
to dig up the streets and stuff -- we just gotta say yes. We got to trust 'em. I think that's nonsense. I think if Council
always trusted staff to do the right thing, there wouldn't be a UAC.

Finally, Ed Shikada said, at one point, the reason that you folks didn't see this contract before it went to Council is
because UAC never does contracts. I think that's a bad policy. I mean, I think it's clear that, once an RFP goes out and
bids are submitted, you can't take a look at the bids, because the bidders want that information to be secret from each
other. But before an RFP goes out, I think there's no reason why you can't -- you know, why the public can't see -- and
why you can't see -- what we're about to ask for. And, you know, in this case, it's a very big-deal project. You know, It
was, you know, $16.5 million -- $18 [million] if you count the contingency. And so, it's important enough for you to worry
about. And, I think, staff should bring it to you.

1:35:14:

Commissioner Schwartz: (unamplified) Thank you. OK. We now have Andy -- what-is-it? -- Poggio.

1:35:24:

Andy Poggio: (unamplified) Poggio. Perfect. (amplified) Hi. I'm Andy Poggio. I'm also a member of the Citizens
Advisory Committee. And I want to urge Palo Alto -- and, in this case, through the mechanism of this group -- to move
ahead with fiber-to-the-premises. I'll just make a couple of points about that.

One is that our federal government has destroyed net neutrality, and is moving to define "broadband" internet access from
a very low speed to an abysmally low speed. Moving us backwards in time. Whereas Palo Alto is about moving
forward. So we can't expect good federal support. We're currently served in Palo Alto by a duopoly. AT&T can't manage
5 megabits upload from my Midtown home -- already a very low speed. Comcast is infamous for bad customer
service. These are not good choices for us.

There is a lot of information and concern around a business plan for fiber-to-the-premises. I note that we don't have a
business plan for streets. We're all just glad that we don't have to walk and drive in the mud. All right? We don't have a
business for libraries. We all love our libraries. But I ask this group, and everyone here, in the last month, how many
times have you used a City library? You don't have to say. Just think of that number. Then, how many times in the last
month have you used the internet? I'll be very surprised if, for most people here, there isn't a 10-to-1 ratio easily. So that
might indicate where we should be putting our emphasis, on City resources in general.

Just a couple more points. One, a lot of people talk about wireless as a replacement. It's not a replacement for fiber. It's
fundamentally a shared medium. It doesn't work well when people are streaming -- which we're doing more and more
of. I'll note that the organizations that build cell towers never use wireless to connect the cell towers. It's always
fiber. And the reason is, wireless is not a replacement for fiber. And, sort of as a general rule, one approach is, if it
doesn't move, connect it by fiber. So, my watch, my cell phone, wireless are perfect for those. My house, I'm fortunate to
say, doesn't move around a lot, so it should be connected by fiber.

One last point. Palo Alto used to be sort of the startup capital, not of Silicon Valley, but, arguably, the world. I think that's
                                                                2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/14/2018 2:49 PM
moved north. I think San Francisco is beating us in that respect. I don't think Palo Alto is going to be able to replace
North Beach. I don't think we'll be able to replace SoMa. But we can build fiber-to-the-premises. Benefit
startups. Benefit existing companies. And benefit our citizens. Thank you.

1:38:16:

Commissioner Schwartz: (unamplified) Herb.

1:38:25:

Herb Borock: Acting Chair Schwartz and commissioners and Vice Mayor Filseth. You know, usually, in meetings like
this, we get to hear a staff report before the public gets to comment on what staff has to say. But, as you heard from the
previous two speakers, the kinds of things that you've been hearing from the public this evening have nothing to do with
the staff report. Because staff has decided that it is the one that is making the decision about what goes in the request for
proposal. And what the previous two speakers and I are talking about is what a fiber project would be if it's done
beginning with the idea of providing a service to the community. That's not what's going on here, and hasn't been going
on for some time.

In regard to the fact that this request for proposal is not being approved by the City Council. I raised that issue at one of
the Citizens Advisory Committee meetings that I was able to attend as a member of the public. Sometimes, the
committee meets privately with staff, and they don't notice those meetings.

### Since I've been a CAC member (10-27-16), all CAC meetings I've been made aware of have been open to the
public. But prior to 10-27-16, CAC did sometimes meet in private.

And I said, well, it should -- my suggestion is, it should -- the RFP should go to the Council. Which Dr. Reichental
responded, oh, we never send RFPs to the Council. But, in fact, when fiber was under the Utilities -- not like under the
last Utilities Director, who wanted nothing to do with fiber -- Director Fong -- but under Director Ulrich, the City Council
approved the RFPs. When the fiber project that led to the attempt with Axia was before the Council, it was under
Administrative Services. The RFPs came for approval to Council. So, it's really, you know, who's on the City Council, and
who the City Manager is, that determines this flow of information. And in terms of what Jeff Hoel and Andy Poggio have
said, to get what they want done, and what I want done, you need buy-in by a majority of the Council, the City Manager,
and the Director of Utilities. Because if any one those three doesn't want to do it, it's not going to happen. The Council
can decide to do it. But either the City Manager or the Utilities Department can decide not to do it. And it won't happen. It
will be delayed. It won't come out the same way. And, so far, we -- currently, in it's -- current City Council / Manager --
the system with who's in those positions now, much more is delegated to the City Manager. On many issues, not just on
Utilities or fiber. It's more like a business where the board of directors looks at the stock price, and as long as that's OK,
well, we'll let the CEO run the thing. But I don't think that is what a City government is for.

The light, by the way, is not working. I know you're looking at the time, but I have no idea what it is.

1:41:48:

Commissioner Schwartz: (unamplified) You're done.

1:41:49:

Herb Borock: Fine. Thank you.

1:41:

Commissioner Schwartz: (unamplified) Good. Thank you. I'm sorry. I didn't realize it was a light to use to time
yourself. (amplified) OK. Thank you for your comments.

1:42:02:

David Yuan: Good evening, commissioners and Vice Mayor. My name is Dave Yen, Strategic Business Manager. And
with me tonight is Jim Fleming, Senior Management Analyst, and our fiber expert. So, first off, I want to acknowledge -- I
thank Andy Poggio and Jeff Hoel for serving on the Citizens Advisory Committee, and coming tonight -- and
attending tonight's meeting.
                                                               3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/14/2018 2:49 PM

1:42:31:

Technical difficulties.

1:42:44:

OK. So, the agenda tonight is to give you guys a brief overview of the fiber network, provide highlights of the City's 19-
year odyssey, or pursuit for fiber-to-the-premises. And we'll revisit Council's August 2017 fiber motion to develop a
business case and a high-level design for a fiber-to-the-node network, with an expansion option for fiber-to-the-
premises. We'll provide you a market and regulatory update, as of right now. And we'll also provide you, under next
steps, an update of our current fiber activities.

1:43:17:

So, the fiber network was developed back in the mid-1990s. The purpose of the network was to improve command and
control of utility facilities.

### That wasn't the only purpose. From the beginning, Council wanted to lease dark fiber to customers. And Council
wanted to get to citywide FTTP (then called FTTH) eventually.

In particular, with substations and traffic signals. In 2000, we started getting interest from telecommunications providers
and resellers and even Stanford University, requesting to lease some of our dark fiber.

### According to this 12-19-97 article in the Palo Alto Weekly,
https://www.paloaltoonline.com/weekly/morgue/news/1997_Dec_19.LOOP.html
"... fiber license agreements have been signed with two commercial customers--WebTV Networks and Brooks Fiber
Communications of San Jose. Agreements are close to being finalized with six others."

And then, in 2009, we established the Fiber Utility. Previously, it was a subdivision -- or a sub-fund of the electric
utility. So, in 2009, we repaid back the electric fund $2 million for the investment. And also had $8 million reserves at that
time.

In 2014, we partnered with Palo Alto Unified School District and expanded our dark fiber network, by providing fiber to the
17 schools and the district office.

### If this was a partnership at all, it was a public-public partnership. This 12-03-12 staff report says the City gave
PAUSD the opportunity to pay for half of the installation cost on an installment plan. Other than that, I think it was an
ordinary provider-customer relationship.

And currently, we're doing a fiber rebuild CIP project. Basically, it's to relieve some congestion points, mainly in the
downtown area and Stanford Research Park. And adding more fiber strands there, to add more capacity. And, as of right
now, we have about 100 customers,

### The slide says 108 customers.

221 connections. Annual revenue is about $4.5 million. And annual expenses about $2 million. And the current reserve
balance is about $27 million.

1:44:34:

Here is an outline of our fiber backbone. Sorry it's hard to see. But there's a -- you can see, it kind of surrounds the
outside of Palo Alto. The blue represents the aerial fiber, and the green represents the underground. The split's about 54
percent aerial and 46 percent underground. And I just want to note that there is a lot of fiber in the downtown area, which
is what's called out in that left box -- lower box. And on the right hand of that is the Stanford Research Park. There's a
high concentration of fiber in those two main areas.

1:45:09:

Now, I'm going to pass it on to Jim Fleming.
                                                              4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/14/2018 2:49 PM

1:45 :12:

Jim Fleming: Good evening, Vice Chair Schwartz,

### UAC's Vice Chair is Arne Ballantine.

(unamplified) commissioners, and Council Member Filseth. ** I'm Jim Fleming, and I'm a **.

1:45:21:

(amplified) Um. This slide lists the various fiber-to-the-premises and wireless milestones since the late 1990s. The
history document attached to the staff report provides more details.

### To me, it's confusing to get two separate presentations of history, one from David Yuan (dark fiber) and one from Jim
Fleming (FTTP and wireless).

The milestones include:

In 1999, the City issued a request for proposals for a universal telecommunications system. However, no viable bids were
submitted.

### The RFP was looking for a public-private partnership. By now, we should have figured out not to do that ever again.

From 2000 to 2005, a Fiber-to-the-Home Trial was conducted in the Community Center neighborhood. 66 homes
participated in the Trial.

### This recounting of history fails to mention that from 2002 to 2004, staff and consultant Uptown Services wrote a
FTTH Business Case (2002), FTTH Business Plan, Phase 1 (2003), and FTTH Business Plan, Phase 2 (2004).

In 2006, an RFP was issued to build citywide fiber, which resulted in lengthy negotiations with a consortium of firms to
build a network. Negotiations were terminated with this consortium in 2009, due to the lack of financial resources of these
private firms.

### This was the City's second attempt to make a public-private partnership work for FTTP.

In 2010, the City, along with more than 1,000 other cities, responded to Google Fiber's RFI.

In 2011 and 2012, staff worked with two consulting firms to prepare market research, and to explore network expansion
opportunities, including a study to evaluate a user-financed model for fiber-to-the-premises.

In 2013, the Council began its Technology and the Connected City initiative, which included an appointment of a Citizens
Advisory Committee by the City Manager.

### Not exactly. On 05-14-13, Council's Technology and the Connected City (TACC) Committee asked City Manager
Keene (at Item 5) to appoint and work with a Citizens Advisory Committee.
https://cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/35046
But the appointments of committee members weren't actually made until 02-18-14, just one day before Google announced
that Palo Alto was on its short list of 34 cities to perhaps get Google Fiber next.
https://fiber.googleblog.com/2014/02/exploring-new-cities-for-google-fiber.html

And the development of a Fiber-to-the-Premises Master Plan and a Wireless Network Plan. The plans were reviewed by
the Council in September 2015. And the Council adopted a multi-part motion for next steps, including issuing an RFI for a
public-private partnership.

### if you're keeping score -- and you should be keeping score -- this is the third attempt at a public-private partnership.

An RFI was issued in 2016, and it resulted in several responses. But none of the respondents' proposals aligned with the
City's objectives for a citywide Fiber-to-the-Premises network.


                                                              5
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/14/2018 2:49 PM
While the fiber and wireless plans were being developed, staff was also engaged with Google Fiber for more than two
years, as a potential city for construction of their fiber optic network. As you may know, Google Fiber "paused" its build
plans in July of 2016.

In 2017, staff presented three options to the Utilities Advisory Commission and the Council Policy & Services Committee
for fiber and broadband expansion, in addition to two wireless recommendations. Based on feedback about the potential
fiber and wireless options from the UAC and the Policy & Services Committee, on August 21, 2017, an option was
recommended to the Council to develop a business case for a municipally-owned fiber-to-the-node network, that can
make available fiber infrastructure in neighborhoods, to support last-mile connections by third-party builders and internet
service providers, in addition to providing a wireless platform to support other communication needs for the City. A fiber-
to-the-node network would be an incremental approach for fiber expansion.

Two wireless recommendations were also presented. Those recommendations included to expand Wi-Fi to unserved City
facilities. Most City facilities already have Wi-Fi. And to discontinue plans to provide public Wi-Fi in high-traffic
commercial zones.

1:48:47:

(You can go to the next slide. Thanks) Based on these recommendations on August 21, 2017, Council directed staff to
do the following.

* Develop a business case for a municipally-provided fiber-to-the-node network; engage a management consultant to
develop a business case; develop funding plans, potential partners and/or service providers; and

* Prepare a high-level network design.

* Dependent on the outcome of the business case, engage an engineering firm to design a fiber-to-the-node network, with
an expansion option to build a citywide fiber-to-the-premises network

### Does it make sense to consider citywide FTTP only if a business case can be made for FTTN? I don't think so.

### Also, I think it makes more sense to design the citywide fiber-to-the-premises network first, and only then consider
what can be left out initially if all you want to achieve is FTTN functionality.

* Council also asked staff to draft ordinances for consideration that would lower the City's fiber construction costs.

For wireless, Council approved expanding wireless to unserved City facilities, and approved discontinuing consideration of
City-provided Wi-Fi in high-traffic commercial zones.

1:49:48:

Regarding market and regulatory updates, Comcast has confirmed the availability of gigabit-speed broadband to most
premises in Palo Alto.

### In its 04-05-17 report to UAC, staff said Comcast would be doing a "soft launch" of DOCSIS 3.1 in 2Q17.
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/56779
Has the launch status moved beyond the "soft" stage?

### From this Comcast web page for Palo Alto,
https://www.xfinity.com/locations/california/palo-alto.html
if I click on "see all available offers," I go here:
https://www.xfinity.com/learn/offers
And I don't see any speeds higher than 250 Mbps.

### Using DOCSIS 3.1 technology, Comcast can offer a download speed of "up to" 1 Gbps but an upload speed of only
"up to" 35 Mbps. Since this technology is a hybrid fiber coax technology, with hundreds of premises sharing a coax
segment, and since the total bandwidth on a coax segment is only 10 Gbps or so, if a significant number of premises
subscribe to 1-Gbps and all try to download at the same time, nobody gets 1 Gbps. Is this good enough to qualify as
"gigabit-speed"?


                                                               6
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/14/2018 2:49 PM
The price is $159.95 a month, with no contract, and $109.95 a month with a 1-year contract.

### Comcast can change its prices at the drop of a hat. At a 01-30-18 meeting of the City Council in Loveland, CO,
Comcast's John Lehmann testified (at 4:17:50 on the video) that Comcast is experimenting with a variety of different
prices for its (so-called) "gigabit" product (DOCSIS 3.1).
https://loveland.viebit.com/player.php?hash=hjj2Twl9RMcv#
In Longmont, CO (which already has a symmetric 1-Gbps citywide municipal FTTP alternative), it's $70 per month. In
Loveland, CO (which is on the verge of moving forward with citywide municipal FTTP), it's $90 per month. Both are
substantially less than Comcast's "gigabit" prices in Palo Alto (which has yet to get its act together).

### Recall that on 09-28-15, Council Member Burt did a quick calculation of how much money the City's premises might
be able to save each year if the presence of a citywide municipal FTTP network caused the incumbents to reduce their
prices by $40 per month. (See page 39 here.)
https://cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/49648
20,000 * $40 * 12 = $9.6 million per year. If he had assumed 30,000 premises, he would have calculated $14.4 million
per year. If we compare the no-contract price of "gigabit" in Palo Alto ($160 per month) with the price in Longmont ($70
per month), the difference is $90 per month. So Palo Alto premises might save 30,000 * $90 * 12 = $32.4 million per
year. If Palo Alto were offering 1-Gbps at $50 per month, as Longmont does for premises that sign up within three
months of the network's availability, then for folks who took that service, the difference could be $110 per month, so the
total savings could be 30,000 * $110 * 12 = $39.6 million per year.

### Comcast might double its prices, according to New Street Research's Jonathan Chaplin.
10-02-17: "Comcast to lead doubling of consumer broadband pricing, analyst says"
https://www.fiercecable.com/cable/comcast-to-lead-doubling-consumer-broadband-pricing-analyst-says

We also understand that AT&T Fiber will initiate the upgrade to their network in 2018 in Palo Alto.

### This could mean almost anything at all. But it obviously doesn't mean that all premises in Palo Alto will be able to get
symmetric 1-Gbps internet service from AT&T at a reasonable price by the end of 2018.

Last week, the City and County of San Francisco issued a request-for-qualifications to find companies that are qualified to
design, build, finance, operate, and maintain a ubiquitous broadband fiber-to-the-premises network that permits retail
service providers to lease capacity on the network. The estimated cost to build a citywide dark fiber network in San
Francisco is $1.5 billion, and a lit network is $1.9 billion.

### The $1.5 billion figure is for dark fiber infrastructure, with no electronics and no fiber drops. The $1.9 billion figure is
for the same dark fiber infrastructure, plus electronics and drops for 100 percent of premises (because San
Francisco's belief is that no premises should be left behind).
http://www.sfmunifiber.com/fiber_roadmap

Moving along, what is 5G, and when will it be available? 5G wireless technology is the next telecommunications
standards beyond the current 4G standards. 5G will be integral to the development of the so-called Internet of
Things. And to meet the exponential increase in consumer demand for high-performing mobile connections to the
internet. 5G fixed wireless access provides connections to the internet via wireless mobile networks, rather than
traditional cable, DSL, or fiber. Both AT&T and Verizon Wireless are conducting 5G trials in several cities in their
operating territories. In terms of small cell deployments, there are currently about 120 applications submitted,
with Planning and Utilities Department by the mobile operators to install small cell antennas and radios in Palo
Alto. Primarily on wood utility poles and street light poles. The operators need to deploy small cells to extend their
service coverage and/or increase network capacity.

1:51:45:

In terms of regulatory issues of note, last December, the FCC repealed the federal government's 2015 net neutrality rules,
which required internet providers to treat all websites, large and small, equally. Opponents of the FCC action are taking
the agency to court. Also, there are two bills in the California Senate that would force ISPs to adhere to net neutrality
protections removed by the FCC. SB 460 was approved last week and is now moving to the Assembly. And SB 822 is
pending. It is important to note that legislators may have chosen an approach that is vulnerable to legal challenges. State
laws can be preempted by federal policy. And the FCC's net neutrality repeal orders states to refrain from imposing their
own network neutrality laws.


                                                                7
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/14/2018 2:49 PM
In January 2017, the Chairman of the FCC announced the formation of a new federal advisory committee, called the
Broadband Deployment Advisory Committee, which provides advice and recommendations to the commission on how to
accelerate the deployment of high-speed internet access. The committee is beginning to issue draft recommendations for
model codes for states and municipalities, which will streamline siting requirements, competitive access to broadband
infrastructure, and removing access -- or, removing state and local regulatory barriers. The committee is made up of
telecommunication industry representatives and representatives from the public sector.

### Recently, San Jose's mayor, Sam Liccardo, resigned from BDAC, because it was "a vehicle for advancing the
interests of the telecommunications industry over those of the public."
http://www.sanjoseca.gov/DocumentCenter/View/74464

Last October, Governor Brown vetoed SB 649, which proposed to scale back local government permit processes for
antennas and equipment for wireless services. Many cities, including the City of Palo Alto, opposed the bill.

### Palo Alto dithered far too long before opposing SB 649. By 09-19-17, SB 649 had already been "enrolled" -- passed
by the Assembly (09-13-17) and the Senate (09-14-17).
https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/billNavClient.xhtml?bill_id=201720180SB649
On 09-19-17, Mayor Scharff asked Governor Brown to veto it. Fortunately, he did.
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/61249
On 06-14-17, Mayor Scharff told Senator Hueso, the sponsor of SB 649, in a letter that Palo Alto opposed SB 649. I don't
know whether the letter went anywhere else. Apparently, it didn't persuade Hueso.
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/58295
On 05-08-17, this staff report said staff was still dithering.
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/57724

Nevertheless, it is likely similar bills will come back this year, both at the state and federal levels. That concludes my
remarks.

1:53:46:

David Yuan: So, before I go to the final slides, I want to see if there's any questions. I know Jim just covered a lot of
material. Under the markets and regulatory.

1:53:56:

Commissioner Schwartz: Anybody? On this slide? So, what -- I have some comments. But it seems like -- Why don't
you do your -- Why don't you do your slide, and then I'll --

1:544:11:

David Yuan: OK. So, this is our Next Steps. So, we've been working with the CAC for the past couple months on the
statement of work for the RFP. It's currently under review by the City Attorney's Office. And, like Jim said earlier, the goal
is to identify potential applications for gigabit services or gigabit speed, including the costs, the benefits, and whatever
revenues it may derive; identifying public-private partnership models, developing a high-level network design, with cost
estimates, both a fiber network and maybe a hybrid version, where it's both fiber and wireless. The timeline right now --
we don't go very fast, unfortunately -- from issuance to awarding of the contract, it takes about 4 to 6 months. So, the --
right now, the plan is to issue it in March. So we probably won't have a contract awarded until June or July. So, that
means, we probably won't have any findings brought back to the UAC or Council until the fall, or early 2019. Just so you
know.

But I'll continue for now. We'll answer some -- Unless you have some questions now.

1:55:13:

Commissioner Schwartz: OK.

### At this point, it's traditional for the Chair to let other commissioners speak first, but Acting Chair Schwartz decided to
speak first.



                                                               8
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/14/2018 2:49 PM
So, one of the things that I would think would be helpful is -- We have individuals who are members of the CAC. But they
always speak as individuals.

1:55:26

David Yuan: Um hum.

1:55:26:

Commissioner Schwartz: So, I think it would be helpful to us to hear whatever is the official position of the CAC, in terms
of how that's stated.

### The Citizens Advisory Committee on FTTP and Wireless (CAC) was set up to be advisory (only) to
staff. CAC usually meets in public, and usually has agendas and minutes. But it doesn't have to. Meetings are not
videotaped. Committee members don't get to put items on agendas. There are no "action items," where committee
members vote. Staff runs the meetings. In my experience, committee members have never been asked to come up with
an "official" CAC position on anything.

### At the 09-02-15 UAC meeting, during the public comment period for Item 1 (the FTTP item), Bob Harrington handed
UAC a paper memo, "Fiber to the Premises (FTTP) is Critical to Palo Alto Infrastructure," written by three CAC members,
Bob Harrington, Andy Poggio, and Christine Moe. Bob explained that the memo wasn't the official CAC position, just the
opinion of three CAC members. Bob presented the memo. And during UAC's deliberation, Bob answered questions put
to him by the UAC commissioners, including Commissioner Schwartz. Here's the video, (Harrington's comments start at
2:01:32.)
http://midpenmedia.org/utilities-advisory-commission-12/
(As an aside, wouldn't verbatim minutes be great?) I retyped the memo and commented on it here (pages 170-173).
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/48985

### According to the municipal code, Section 2.23.050, UAC is responsible for advising Council about the Fiber
Utility. Does UAC have any advice for Council about how CAC was set up?

So -- And to understanding -- You know, with a list of who's on it.

### The current CAC members are (in alphabetical order): Richard Brand, Bob Harrington, Jeff Hoel, Andrew Kau, Abbas
Masnavi, Olivier Matthey, Christine Moe, Donn Lee, Andy Poggio, Loren Smith, and Vijay Tapaskar. CAC's "home page"
is here.
https://cityofpaloalto.org/gov/boards/technology_committee.asp
Each minutes document posted here says who attended and who didn't attend (but the minutes don't make clear who the
committee members are and who the staff members are).

OK? So, I think that would be something that would be helpful to us, that we could maybe study in the interim, while
you're doing that.

My concerns fall into a couple of areas. One is, given the challenges that the City is having with staffing, I'm having
trouble understanding that if we added a whole new utility, that had high -- that required a lot of people to staff it, how we'd
be able to do that. So, that's one of my concerns -- is how that could work.

Another is something that I think would be really helpful to us, in terms of our understanding of it, is to have a chart that
shows, on one side, what are the different use-case applications, of what people want it for, and then, what happens with
today's environment, what happens if there's fiber-to-the-home, what happens if you're using 5G or whatever wireless,
you know. So, the options across one axis, and then the applications. So, if the issue is, you know, you've got five
people in your house watching movies -- You know, what are the things that -- Because this is one of the things that's
always been missing when I've seen any evaluation. I'm not a geek -- a techie -- to know the megabit speed and the --
you know, that isn't like -- what is it that you're trying to do? And what can you do now? And can't do? OK? By other
means. OK? So, I think, in whatever next document or presentation gets made to us, that would be a really helpful,
useful thing.

### This is just completely wrongheaded. If customers are willing to pay for symmetric 1-Gbps internet service, the City
doesn't need to know why. Chattanooga EPB's take rate is now about 56 or 57 percent -- about 95,000 customers (as
reported by their Director of Fiber Technology, Colman Keane, at 1:14:10 on this 02-06-18 video).
                                                               9
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/14/2018 2:49 PM
https://loveland.viebit.com/player.php?hash=R9JDWuurl22r#
Most take symmetric 100-Mbps internet service, but a significant minority takes symmetric 1-Gbps internet service. (A 03-
22-15 article says EPB had 62,686 internet customers, of which 5,265 took 1-Gbps service.)
http://www.timesfreepress.com/news/business/aroundregion/story/2015/mar/22/high-fiber-choiceepb-attracts-45-percent-
home/294234/
(A 01-01-18 article says EPB has more than 94,000 customers, but doesn't say how many take 1-Gbps.)
http://www.timesfreepress.com/news/edge/story/2018/jan/01/brand-epb/460057/

### The City doesn't have a chart that lists all of the common electric applications and how much electricity they need --
lights, blower for furnace, air conditioner, refrigerator, microwave oven, dishwasher, phone answering machine, stereo,
TV, computer, washing machine, dryer, toaster, blender, garage door opener, clock, EV, fans, etc. It's up to the
homeowner or business owner to have an intra-premises distribution system with right-sized circuit breakers or fuses. It's
up to the City to deliver the electricity. In 1898, when the City started its electric utility, the list was a lot shorter.

1:57:26:

Another thing that I think we need to understand is the purchase appetite among Palo Alto residents.

### And businesses, right?

So, if -- And, Catherine, maybe this is something that we can do as a survey.

### It would be foolish to just throw together another survey without thinking about it very carefully first.

### In 2002, staff hired DataCycles to do a survey about interest in municipal FTTP. About 1,000 people were
surveyed. DataCycles claimed to have selected a representative cross-section of the public to survey. They claimed to
have designed the questions "scientifically" so that the answers would be meaningful. But skeptics still raised concerns.
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/cityagenda/publish/uac-meetings/1953.pdf
The public got to see what the wording of the questions was and how they were answered. Staff thought that the survey
showed sufficient interest in FTTP to make if feasible financially. Skeptics will now say that we can't rely on this data
because it's too old.

### In 2012, staff hired RKS Research to do a survey specifically about interest in "user-financed" municipal FTTP. 401
homeowners were surveyed.
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/30112
The public did NOT get to see what the exact wording of the questions was or how they were answered. The staff report
provided massaged data, not raw data. Apparently people were asked whether they'd pay an up-front fee of $0, $1,000,
$2,000, $3,000, or $5,000, and whether they'd pay from $50 to $3,000 per month, to get symmetric 100-Mbps internet
service.

### As reported in this 12-04-17 document (70 pages)
http://www.cityofloveland.org/home/showdocument?id=38871
Loveland, CO did two broadband surveys, one for residential, one for businesses. The document shows all the questions
and how they were answered. (I'm not saying we should rely on Loveland's data. And I'm not saying that we should use
exactly these questions. But the report was good about letting the public know what the questions and results were.)

### Later, Loveland did another survey -- a conjoint take-rate study -- when the skeptics asked for even more convincing.
http://www.cityofloveland.org/home/showdocument?id=36581
I don't know who would think we need this level of detail.

### Incidentally, I agree with Andy Poggio's point, in his message of 02-08-18, 6:00:43 pm, that a survey should be
preceded by an education/outreach campaign letting the public know that the City is seriously thinking about doing
citywide municipal FTTP, and why.

We do have, you know, several who are very dedicated, who come to all the meetings, and express their concerns about
that. But it doesn't seem to go beyond, ever, five people that I've seen, since I've been on the UAC. So, could we do -- is
it possible to do -- some kind of survey, to find out -- once we've done this application chart of knowing what the things are
-- what people in this City think they really need, and is it problematic for them, and how broad is the concern?



                                                               10
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/14/2018 2:49 PM
### It would be a mistake for the survey to ask people about which specific applications they "really need." What makes
the internet so great is that people can figure out for themselves how they want to use it.

Because, you know, I think the issue of -- are we going to be able to have enough businesses or startups want to be in
Palo Alto, somehow, I just don't think that's our problem -- is attracting people who want to do business in Palo Alto. I
don't think we're losing businesses because we don't have fiber-to-the-premises.

### A citywide municipal FTTP network would make it possible for more of our residents to be more productive when
working from home, whether telecommuting or at their own home businesses. It would also allow residents who need to
commute to do so at off-peak times.

### At the 02-03-18 Council Retreat, Council adopted "Transportation" as one of the four Council priorities for
2018. Council Member Scharff opined that when people say "traffic" is bad, they don't mean that the number of cars per
hour on streets is too high. They mean that it takes too long to get from one place to another. And maybe a small
decrease in cars per hour can result in a large decrease in transit times. Scharff said, "I do think we need to talk about
traffic flow, circulation, how do we get cars moving" (2:53:30) and "We really need to improve traffic flow" (3:06:24).
https://loveland.viebit.com/player.php?hash=R9JDWuurl22r#
(Sorry, I won't track down the quote I really wanted. I'll wait for the verbatim minutes to be published.) Well, guess
what. FTTP can help with this.

And then, you know, the whole idea of the -- sort of the performance comparison of, you know, what is it that you're going
to do if you have these things, in terms of what people are going to be able to accomplish? So, I think that kind of thing
would be very helpful, both for us to give advice to the City Council, and for the City Council to be able to make a
determination. Because I think that, in the conversations that I've had with people on the Council, I don't think they really
know what it's for, or why you're doing it, or whatever. And what they think it's going to be for may not have any impact at
all.

So, I think those are my recommendations, to be included in the analysis. And I don't know if anybody else has anything
they want to add?

1:59:31:

Commissioner Segal: Well, as part of that, I would like to understand some of the economics. I appreciate we don't have
any bids. But I heard very -- wildly different economic analysis. You know, even if it's just finger-in-the-wind. And I'd like
to have some better sense of what the range is. You know, is San Francisco the right comp? I don't know.

1:59:58:

David Yuan: So, the City, in the last Master Study did come up with a number. It came out like $78 million, was the
number they quoted, for a fiber-to-the-premises network.

### It wasn't a quotation, it was an estimate. That estimate included connecting 72 percent of premises.

2:00:07:

Commissioner Segal: What was the $1.5 billion in San Francisco?

2:00:10:

Jim Fleming: That -- That's for a dark network. In other words, it's just fiber, with nothing on it. A lit network would be the
$1.9 billion, total.

2:00:24:

Commissioner Segal: Right. So, I'm not following -- OK, $1.9 [billion] lit network versus $78 million --

2:00:30:

David Yuan: Um hum. Palo Alto's a much smaller city. And our topography is more flat. More dense, I guess.


                                                              11
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/14/2018 2:49 PM
### San Francisco fits 373,481 premises into 46.87 square miles, for a density of 7,968 premises per square mile. Palo
Alto fits about 30,000 premises into a land area of 23.68 square miles, for a density of about 1,257 premises per square
mile.

2:00:38:

Jim Fleming: I mean, there's roughly 26,000 homes, including apartment dwellings, in Palo Alto.

### Shouldn't we also be considering business premises? Years ago, I said staff should report how many premises Palo
Alto has -- single family homes, MDUs, and businesses. And, for each of these, how many have aerial utilities, and how
many have undergrounded utilities. For example, a 5-14-13 feasibility presentation for Longmont, CO,
https://www.tellusventure.com/downloads/provo/longmont_ftth_feasibility_preso_14may2013.pdf
says (page 14) they have 28,333 single family premises, of which 6,384 have aerial utilities and 21,949 have
undergrounded utilities, and they have 10,721 MDU premises, of which 3,580 have aerial utilities and 7,141 have
undergrounded utilities. In all, there are 39,054 premises. (I don't know why business premises weren't reported.)

### Maybe Palo Alto's premises-count data should be reported in each Utilities Quarterly Update report. We know it will
change over time. Housing is one of Council's top priorities in 2018.

San Francisco probably has -- this is a guess -- probably 3[00,000] to 400,000 dwellings. So that would be the difference.

### San Francisco has 354,807 residential premises and 18,674 business premises, according to this October 2017
report.
http://sfbos.org/sites/default/files/CTC-Deliverable22-final-20171017.pdf

2:00:54:

Commissioner Segal: So -- Yeah, so, I guess I'm not following why San Francisco is a comp for us.

### Good point!

### I'd be more interested in comping cities that already have municipal FTTP. For example, Longmont, CO, has a
population of 92,858; Palo Alto has a population of 67,024. So Longmont has 38.54 percent more people. It cost
Longmont about $52 million to deploy its citywide FTTP network to its current take rate of 53%. That's $600 per
person. Palo Alto thinks citywide FTTP with a 72% take rate would cost $77.8 million. That's $1,161 per person.

2:00:59:

Jim Fleming: It's not -- It's -- necessarily a comp. But it is a model that is emerging, perhaps, for a public-private
partnership. Their objective is to find a partner to build out the network. And for them -- for the partner to absorb most of
the cost, and take most of the risk of building the network.

2:01:22:

David Yuan: So, we've been just basically monitoring their progress and seeing what they're asking for their RFP.

2:01:28:

Commissioner Segal: OK, thanks.

2:01:30:

Commissioner Forssell: Can I ask you a question, though? Because that's for fiber-to-the-premises.

2:01:32:

David Yuan: Um hum.

2:01:32:


                                                              12
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/14/2018 2:49 PM
Commissioner Forssell: And we're about to issue an RFP for fiber-to-the-node.

2:01:36:

David Yuan: Right.

### Well, not exactly right. The RFP is for finding a consultant who can figure out what FTTN and FTTP should be,
before writing RFPs about those.

So, our ...

2:01:38:

Commissioner Forssell: So, you get another way in which it's not really a comp. If I understand correctly.

2:01:42:

David Yuan: So, in the RFP, we're going to have a little combination. One is for fiber-to-the-node. And also an
expansion option for fiber-to-the-premises. So, the ...

2:01:49:

Commissioner Forssell: For the whole city? Or just for a pilot program of just one neighborhood?

2:01:51:

David Yuan: Full city.

2:01:53:

Commissioner Forssell: OK.

2:01:54:

David Yuan: And that's for the design, and estimate of the costs, and the list of the -- like Commissioner Judith said --
Schwartz -- the list of potential opportunities or applications. But I do like the advice about the application matrix, too. So,
we'll include that as well. Thank you.

2:02:10:

Commissioner Schwartz: (unamplified) ** make it -- make it (amplified) make it easier for people to understand what we're
talking about.

2:02:15:

David Yuan: And then the cost estimate for the fiber-to-the-node network right now is about $15 million. Is what we're
guessing.

### The 08-21-17 staff report says FTTN is estimated to cost between $12 million and $15 million. So, is this price
creep?
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/61084
The public still doesn't know what that estimate is based on. For one thing, the public doesn't even know how many
nodes there would be.

2:02:21:

Commissioner Segal: One thing -- I wondered this -- that the two-phase fiber-to-the-node, and then the last-mile ...

2:02:28:


                                                               13
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/14/2018 2:49 PM
David Yuan: Um hum.

2:02:28:

Commissioner Segal: ... to be put off. Is there -- Are there any economies of scale doing it straight to the
premises? Rather than doing it in a -- maybe not at all, or a two-part phase?

2:02:41:

David Yuan: Well, doing [fiber]-to-the-premises, there's probably more efficiency. But it costs the $78 million or so,
roughly. So the question is, do we have the appetite, or ...

2:02:50:

Commissioner Segal: Right. I understand that. But is it -- It's $78 million, let's say, to the premises, today. But if we do
it to the node and then later to the premises, are we -- would it be a lot more than that?

2:03:02:

David Yuan: Potentially. I guess we could ask that. But the -- ideally, we would like to find a partner, to help with that last
mile.

### That's not my idea of ideal.

2:03:10:

Commissioner Schwartz: Again -- we've talked about it before, but the idea of having a -- um -- use some of the special
funds -- the fund of -- the money that's been generated by the fiber -- that if someone makes a case for a creative
business that wants to -- that needs this fiber-to the-premises -- and they can make -- that we support it -- that we fund it
as a City, because we think it's important.

### I think this is a spectacularly bad idea. It puts the City in the position of picking winners and losers. It puts applicants
in the position of having to reveal their business ideas prematurely. What would the winners get? Not FTTP. Maybe a
dark fiber connection? But that's much more expensive. What makes FTTP affordable is that it's deployed to whole
neighborhoods at a time.

I think that if part of what we're looking at is vitality of potential businesses, of somebody coming up with something really
creative that they're doing -- you know, an immersive virtual world, and we really want to have that happen in Palo Alto,
then I think that would be a good thing to make a case for that we should give it to them at a reasonable price.

### For most of Palo Alto's utilities, a "reasonable price" is what it takes the utility to break even. For the lucky few who
get a dark fiber connection at a FTTP price, that price is not "reasonable."

Because it's -- you know, we can afford to do that out of the fund.

### To the extent that the money in the Fiber Fund gives the City an advantage in starting up citywide FTTP, these funds
are precious, and we can't afford to squander them.

So, I think we can be creative where that really makes a difference. Or, if we end up with a commercial solution, to let
there be that if there are people who need support, for being able to get broadband to their house, that we can do that,
and we can have subsidies for that, I think would be a reasonable thing to consider in that.

### Is Commissioner Schwartz saying that if the City does deploy citywide municipal FTTP, then the City should consider
offering special rates to low-income folks? OK. The City does that for other utilities.
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/49954
But that shouldn't slow down the main discussion of how to do citywide municipal FTTP. If Commissioner Schwartz is
talking about the City's subsidizing internet service from AT&T or Comcast, I think that's crazy. They have their own low-
income plans.

2:04:27:
                                                               14
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/14/2018 2:49 PM

Commissioner Forssell: Just one thought. The -- I, too, like this idea of kind of working up a matrix of applications, and
sort of how they perform under different scenarios. One application that I'm interested in is the sort of enabling of people
to work from home. You know. Which is, really good. You know, Skype, or FaceTime or video -- video phone call
connections can be really enabling for people. And that leads me to wonder, you know, is there any way to quantify the
positive impacts on the City of people being able to -- You know, the pressure it relieves on traffic, for example. And
other ancillary benefits that come from enabling certain applications. I don't know. It's just a thought.

### Absolutely! See my comments near 1:57:26.

2:05:18:

David Yuan: So, once we get these listed applications, maybe we could put out that survey to the community. Get their
feedback. Or interest.

### Again, I think it's wrongheaded to do a survey about a list of applications.

2:05:26:

Commissioner Schwarz: Any --

2:05:29:

Commissioner Segal: Sorry, I have one more question, about 5G. Because I was just talking to a friend of mine, whose
husband is traveling around the world at these monthly meetings globally to come up with these 5G standards still. Which
sounds to me like it's further off than what I'm hearing from you. And so, if you have some sense of when it's really going
to be commercially available, that would be helpful, too.

### 08-09-17: "A 5G Timeline"
https://potsandpansbyccg.com/2017/08/09/a-5g-timeline/
This article says Network World says 5G might achieve critical mass by 2025.

2:05:50:

Jim Fleming: OK. Yeah, I can speak to that. Right now, the race is on, particularly between AT&T and Verizon, to
provide 5G. Right now, the standards are still being developed. It's kind of a pre-5G stage. However, fixed 5G is where
AT&T and Verizon are moving very quickly. And they're doing trials in several cities in their operating territories. And their
first real commercial launch will be in Sacramento, this coming year. It's almost like an arms race, in terms of the carriers'
improving their networks, not only for 4G but for 5G, which is coming up. And, you know, it will be focused on people that
don't really want to have a wire.

### By "people," does Fleming mean providers that don't really want to use a wire to provide service, or customers who
don't really want to get the service over a wire? If a customer is getting a "fixed" service, why would the customer object
to getting it over a wire?

You know, currently, they're cable TV customers, or DSL customers with the telcos. Or have some other kind of
service. But it's moving very quickly in that direction. Will 5G replace fiber-to-the-premises? There's a real debate about
that right now.

### And the incumbents are crossing their fingers behind their backs.

And the carriers are investing billions in 5G. Particularly AT&T and Verizon Wireless.

### FTTP will be faster, more reliable, more secure, and less expensive per bit.

2:07:18:

Commissioner Schwartz: One of the topics that came up at the recent NARUC meeting

### Maybe Commissioner Schwartz is referring to NARUC's "Infrastructure, Innovation, and Investment" conference,
                                                              15
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/14/2018 2:49 PM
November 11-15, 2017.
https://www.naruc.org/annual-meeting/2017-annual-meeting/agenda/telecommunications/
Commissioner Schwartz attended.
https://pubs.naruc.org/pub/F5D04189-D0B4-C7CE-9D7A-DA9342D5D319

was the idea that the telco companies like don't want to do wires. They have-- You know, one of the things they discuss
with commissioners across the country is the idea of universal service, and universal access. And so, one of the issues
that comes up is that the carriers don't want to do copper wire any more. And so, there's this big debate going
on. Because in certain disaster circumstances, it's great to have copper wire, because it's more resilient -- to our earlier
conversation.

### If I understand Commissioner Schwartz's point, fiber is just as "resilient" as copper -- if not more so -- provided
there's battery backup.

And so, I think this is something that isn't just about, you know, other kinds of out- -- but just in terms of phone service,
that what the carriers want to do may not be in the direction of all the citizens.

The other thing that I do think we should look into, or, sort of, put as -- in our thinking is this idea of net neutrality. And
what happens, and what's the battle. And does the fact that -- um -- Is this something that really does change the
equation in a fundamental way from what we talked about before? So, is -- would -- would this protect -- would this
protect Palo Alto residents from unfair gaming of the system?

### Yes. If the City operated the citywide municipal FTTP network, then it could operate the network in accordance
with the principles of net neutrality.

I mean, you know, does it change something that maybe didn't exist last year and all of a sudden now it's an issue? And I
don't know whether you have an answer, or whether you can just put that in there. But -- But I think that is something to
at least make sure we consider.

2:09:00:

David Yuan: In the San Francisco's RFQ, they did put in net neutrality as well as the guiding principles.

### I think he meant one of the guiding principles.

So that's something that we can consider as well. Making sure that they enforce it. Or, -- yeah.

2:09:12:

Commissioner Forssell: And I'd love to add privacy to that list as well.

2:09:14:

David Yuan: That's also in their scope of work. And there's just one more thing I want to add, in our note in our last slide
is that we are trying to add additional staff to the fiber team, to advance Council's motion. So we are reassessing what's
available, given our limited staff. But we are trying.

2:09:34:

Jim Fleming: (unamplified) Can I make one more point?

2:09:35:

Commissioner Forssell: Can I just ask one more question? Oh, sorry.

2:09:38:

Jim Fleming: I'm sorry. Go ahead.

2:09:39:
                                                                16
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/14/2018 2:49 PM

Commissioner Forssell: I just wanted to ask about identifying potential partners. Is this the -- to find out if there's a
potential partner, but if there isn't, we still -- Like, is it -- is it -- On the timeline, there were many previous times where
there were attempts to find partners, and then everything stopped because there were no partners. Are we setting
ourselves up for another -- if we can't find a partner, we don't move forward? Or is finding a partner on a parallel path with
going it alone?

2:10:09:

David Yuan: It's on a parallel path.

2:10:19:

Jim Fleming: Can I just add one thing? One of our CAC members, Andy Poggio, made a real good point in his
comments. And, Andy, I'm going to paraphrase. The world may be going mobile -- it may be going wireless. You still
need fiber. You need fiber for what's called backhaul. And those networks are not able to perform unless there's fiber for
the backhaul. So, it won't be a totally wireless world, but fiber is very important to the development of, you know, existing
networks and the future 5G. And so forth.

### Yes, the 5G carriers will need fiber for backhaul. But that doesn't mean the 5G carriers will be using the City's
fiber. When I talked to a Verizon representative at their 10-12-17 open house, he said they had issued an RFP for fiber
backhaul and Comcast had won.

2:10:57:

Commissioner Johnston: But that's important to bring out when you talk about these applications. What is it that we
cannot do now that we would be able to do if we had this fiber network?

### Also, even for the things we could do before, what could we do faster, at a lower cost, with more reliability, privacy,
and security than we could before.

2:11:11:

Commissioner Forssell: Also, do we equate fiber-to-the-node with backhaul?

### Interesting question. If FTTN "equates" to backhaul for wireless -- meaning that FTTN is designed for and good for
nothing else -- that's not good.

2:11:17:

Jim Fleming: Yeah. It would create opportunities to license more fiber. You know, as networks are built out, there will be
a demand for dark fiber. And that's exactly what we do right now. So it would be -- There would be a possibility of new
opportunities to license dark fiber -- to the carriers and others. It's going to go on for a long time. And fiber is a very
valuable asset, particularly in a more mobile world.

2:11:53:

Commissioner Schwartz: (unamplified) Is it just the (amplified) part that's the question is, do you do fiber to the individual
premise? OK? Do you -- If you -- the -- All of the plans have had that there's going to be backhaul -- that there's going
to be -- that they're going to be looking at how they expand what we currently have. And the only -- the point of contention
is, do we have a separate utility -- or, an additional utility service -- that goes to every single pers- -- or, potential to be sold
to every single person in Palo Alto? That it goes to everybody's house?

2:12:24:

Commissioner Forssell: Right. No, I get that. I'm just -- If we all agree that even in a wireless world, you need backhaul,
does fiber-to-the-node provide that? Or is it fiber-to-the-node plus some additional infrastructure that's not all the way to
the premises but some in-between thing that's the sweet spot of providing backhaul for wireless?

2:12:46:
                                                                 17
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/14/2018 2:49 PM

Jim Fleming: Yeah. I think what we want to try ...

2:12:47:

Commissioner Forssell: That may be a simplistic form of the question.

2:12:50:

Jim Fleming: And, if I understand your question -- hopefully -- The fiber-to-the-node concept is to create opportunities to
possibly build the last mile out to the individual premise, or to use that point of presence within the network for other
communication opportunities.

### Note that a point of presence requires electronics, and the 08-21-17 staff report says FTTN doesn't include any
electronics.
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/61084

Whether it's licensing fiber to third parties, or for the City's own use. Specifically, public safety, smart grid applications,
smart city applications, and other uses. And that's what -- That's the -- One of the main focuses of the business plan is
to figure out if the fiber-to-the-node approach, which is an incremental approach, would have value. And that's -- that's
going to be important in the business case. And also, whether that infrastructure would attract a third party to build out the
last mile to the home.

2:13:45:

David Yuan: I think the short is yes, we'll provide more.

2:13:50:

Commissioner Forssell: More, but not the complete solution?

2:13:51:

David Yuan: Well, it would depend on the list of potential applications and how we want to right-size it. So, assuming you
want to do the smart grid, smart city, and 5G, then we'll add more fiber strands. So, depending on the price, and the
benefits, I guess, we'll make that decision at that time. But, yes ...

2:14:08:

Commissioner Trumbull: So, I just want to make sure we let the public in. As Mr. Borock pointed out, the normal
procedure is the staff report and then public can comment. I notice that the gentleman, waving ...

2:14:21:

**: (unamplified) **

2:14:21:

Commissioner Trumbull: Don't worry about it. But I just want to make sure he gets a chance to talk.

2:14:25:

**: (unamplified) Thank you.

2:14:31:

Commissioner Schwartz: (unamplified) **

2:14:34:


                                                              18
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/14/2018 2:49 PM
Commissioner Trumbull: Sure.

2:14:35:

Commissioner Schwartz: (unamplified) OK, Bob, you're up.

2:14:38:

Bob Hinden: Thank you. Yeah, I wanted to comment on some of the presentation, and my thoughts on this. In no
particular order. So, information about what applications are better, or how many users -- you know, streams -- you can
have -- that information is all available on the web if you look at Google Fiber and Comcast, they have it all on their
website. That's not hard information to get. It doesn't require hiring a consultant or anything.

The price numbers I was hearing, actually, to me, sound like a bargain. And my basis for that is -- I live near Ross
Road. And the City is currently building -- at least in my opinion -- this crazy traffic calming bike thing, for $9 million. And
that's just for a little -- you know, one road in Palo Alto. So, if we can get fiber to everyone for $100 million or so, that
sounds cheap to me. So, I don't -- You know, we're -- The City is willing to spend lots of money on other kinds of
stuff. So, to me, as a resident, I would be happy to see them -- see my money being used for fiber-to-the-home. I don't
think that's a particularly big number.

And then the -- From what I know about 5G -- and this is part of my day job -- is, this is not a real ubiquitous technology
anytime soon. Telcos do trials for things all the time. It doesn't mean they're going to do universal deployment. It's just
something they always do to try stuff out. And the notion that it's an alternative here, I think, is just wrong. Or at least not
for a very long time. And the rea- -- The way they get higher speeds is by smaller cells and higher frequencies. And
that's -- probably doesn't ever scale to universal service, like LTE is today. So, I think it's -- there's a lot of marketing
hype there. And we shouldn't be confused by that in deciding what to do here.

And we're also, I think, very well suited to doing fiber-to-the-home, because we have a couple of real big assets. We have
the current ring. So we have fiber to a lot of places already. And then we have the Palo Alto Internet Exchange, where
lots of providers are. So we have a lot of -- We can leverage this, to make this. We have a lot of things other
communities don't have. We're still interested in doing this. Thank you.

2:17:24:

Commissioner Schwartz: (unamplified) **

2:17:29:

Vice Mayor Filseth: Hey, I noticed in the staff report that if you look at the revenues on the existing fiber -- fiber ring, that
almost half of them come from resellers. What kind of peop- -- what kind of -- I mean, who is that? Does anybody -- ** --
is that any groups we've ever heard of? I mean, it's obvious that it's not AT&T or Verizon. But --

### One of the resellers is Fiber Internet Center (FIC).
http://www.fiberinternetcenter.com/
On 08-02-17, FIC founder Bob Evans spoke to UAC at Oral Communications, to complain about stuff. He mentioned that
Hurricane Electric is another reseller.

2:17:48:

Jim Fleming: They're mostly what are called CLECs -- competitive local exchange carriers.

2:17:52:

Vice Mayor Filseth: Right.

2:17:52:

Jim Fleming: That -- They don't necessarily own facilities themselves. They either ride on AT&T's network or they find
dark fiber to resell telecommunications services.


                                                               19
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/14/2018 2:49 PM
2:18:07:

Vice Mayor Filseth: So, then, is it consumer-oriented kind of folks, like a Sonic, or somebody like that? Or is it business-
oriented, like a Brooks Fiber, or somebody like that?

### I think the City has a policy of not revealing the names of any of its dark fiber customers.

2:18:14:

Jim Fleming: It's weighted more towards the business area. Rather than residential. There is a little bit of residential, but
it's more weighted towards the business sector.

2:18:24:

Vice Mayor Filseth: All right. Thanks.

2:18:27:

Commissioner Schwartz: OK. And, any more comments? Then, thank you, gentlemen.

2:18:32:




                                                              20
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/12/2018 4:12 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Parman, Russell <Russell.Parman@cep.sccgov.org>
Sent:                             Monday, February 12, 2018 1:32 PM
To:                               Muzzi, Frank; Risen, Chuck; GregoryBetts@city.palo-alto.ca.us; Myers, Lisa;
                                  RobbieParry@city.palo-alto.ca.us; Police; Open Space
Cc:                               Council, City; City Mgr; DEH - VCD Managers; Ebrahimi, Babak; McCaffrey, Kristina
Subject:                          Vector Control Aerial Ops this Wednesday at Palo Alto Floodbasin


Hello All:

Sorry for the late notice here. The article can be seen at https://www.sccgov.org/sites/vector/media‐news‐
events/Documents/2018‐Winter%20Marshland%20Mosquito‐%20Media%20Advisory.pdf

We’ll be operating from the PA Airport (per Jim Wadleigh), hope to start about 7:00‐7:30 a.m. Signage around the
floodbasin will go out tomorrow, and we’ll have our staff on site at several locations on Wednesday. We’ll not be
treating the ITT marsh this time.

Let me know if you have any questions.

Regards,


Russ Parman, M.A. Biological Science
Assistant Manager
Santa Clara County ‐ Vector Control District
1580 Berger Dr., San Jose, CA 95112
Direct (408) 918‐3497; Cell (408) 593‐6176; Fax (408) 298‐6356; Office (408) 918‐4770
Email: russell.parman@deh.sccgov.org

Web: http://www.sccvector.org

We’ve got Twitter, SCCVECTOR iPhone and Android apps, Yahoo email notice group,
AlertSCC and our home page.




                                                           1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/12/2018 11:25 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Sarah Almond Pike <sarahapike@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Thursday, February 08, 2018 5:08 PM
To:                             HRC
Cc:                             Council, City
Subject:                        Voicing Support for a CEDAW Ordinance



Dear Human Relations Commission,

I am writing to voice my support for the Human Relations Committee to forward a recommendation to City
Council for a CEDAW ordinance for Palo Alto. The Convention on the Elimination of all forms of
Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW) provides a great starting point for assessing gender equity at the city
level and thus allowing any needed improvements to be made. A CEDAW ordinance would build on the city's
existing CEDAW resolution (no. 8217) as well as the powerful Council Resolution #9653 – Reaffirming Palo
Alto’s Commitment to a Diverse, Supportive, Inclusive and Protective Community. I spoke at oral
communication in support of the latter resolution, and have spoken to both the City Council and Human
Relations Committee about my support for a CEDAW ordinance, in my capacity as a former Board Member of
the Palo Alto-based Midpeninsula United Nations Association.

Cities and counties of all sizes across the United States are passing CEDAW ordinances. Most recently, San
Jose and Santa Clara County have committed to CEDAW. Palo Alto should continue in step with, rather than
lag behind, these initiatives that respond to the current reality: we can and must still go further in ensuring
equality for women and girls.

I am unable to attend the meeting this evening to voice my support, but thank you for your attention to my
comments.

Sincerely yours,

Sarah Almond Pike




                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/12/2018 11:25 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Stephanie Enos <enosfamily@yahoo.com>
Sent:                            Thursday, February 08, 2018 5:23 PM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         Vote 'No' on Cedaw




To the City manager, James Keen and all council memebers,

I am strongly against this proposal to jump on the band wagon of the ' # metoo and #timesup movements by
devoting tax payer money (of course) for yet one more 'feel good' resolution to make each of you believe that the
Palo Alto city council is doing its best to combat perceived grievances, this time against women. There is a name
for this and it's is called 'Virtue signalling' and some of our council members have great expertise in this area.

What is the point of adopting yet one more ordinance that is almost impossible to define let alone enforce, like the
scofflaw for leaf blowers?
Mean while the local population has to navigate dreadful traffic delays to get to work and shockingly 3rd world roads
to travel on and
the office blocks keep on coming. There are far more urgent matters that need attention: setting aside money for
future employee pensions, budgeting for improvements in infrastucture or preparation for a real disaster such as an
earthquake.
This should be the business of local government not adopting ordinances that cannot be measured but look as
though something is being achieved.

Sincerely,
Stephanie Enos




                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/12/2018 11:26 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Karin Ruescher <greatview2005@yahoo.com>
Sent:                           Thursday, February 08, 2018 4:25 PM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        Vote NO




Please do NOT approve our tax money being spent on gender equality survey!

Vote NO!

Thank you!

Regards,
‐Karin Ruescher




                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/12/2018 11:17 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                         E Nigenda <enigenda1@gmail.com>
Sent:                         Saturday, February 10, 2018 12:39 PM
To:                           Council, City
Subject:                      Why car horns, planes and sirens might be bad for your heart




Münzel is calling on lawmakers to change policies.

“Noise can be considered a cardiovascular risk factor,” he said. “Importantly, this is a risk
factor that cannot be managed by patients or by doctors; it just can be managed by
politicians by making laws with low thresholds for decibel levels during the day and during
the night to protect the people living very close to noise sources.”


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/to-your-health/wp/2018/02/06/why-car-horns-and-other-common-loud-
noises-may-be-bad-for-your-heart/




                                                       1
   I support Castilleja's proposal to
   increase enrollment and modernize its                                                       n£?
                                                                                m             --c
   campus because ...                                                           -.             ~-<
                                                                                SI ,...,
    ~t l S       0. CV' O\JJ n,...fu.\~\
                                                                                   no
                                                                                ~             ;tii2
 .fuv- ?a.\c AL-lo- feco5ti1
                                                                                              :;ii;r-
                                                                                :z:-          <fiO
                                                                                :x            ol>
                                                                                ~             ~3
 !py e,c.ce.1 \et\CR... \ V\                     Office of the Clerk
                                                 Please distribute to all C!!Coutml'PJembers
                                                 250 Hamilton Aventre, 7t~or
 e~dselu~10vl .                                  Palo Alto, CA, 94301

  i1it~V\<JloAcJl1. :I:h
 fodo.'f 1~ ev\Vl':O V\W.e.vl-\:.. .
~£.iP~~~J;:i~ .9 \Y~,~\11~4' i I l11Hlll\p1ll•ii•'llili11ll111i1
 ts ev2X\ vt\ov~ lW\po~-l-o.k ii'\Cl\ll ever.
   RETUR~RESS:    ~                                          ~~'°""'~ .
    I   i'.{~~[G-"-S'>'C-'>'•~ ·.- ,.;;_.,, ~41 . ~          ,,:c-   -......           ~   .........

    fa. Io   A- (tfl2,   CA qt:!lt-~ ~~-"t r -~ ·:? L      ..·~,_,,,_,, .

  I support Castilleja's proposal to
  increase enrollment and modernize its
                                                                                -
                                                                                CD             ("')£?
                                                                                               --c
  campus because ...
                                                                                ,, :i-<
                                                                                ~
   j t .e'"-'f 0 we.p       W tVV' BV\   S                                                   nO
                                                                                             r-...,,
                                                                                  fri~
                                                                               J, ;:s;r-
                         eJA.ua.f\M 1                                          2:119       (1)0
                                                                               :z          o'l>
   ii ef\ ~t<n le5         1>...   s~bd-.S                       9 ~!:i
                                                Office of the Clerk
                                                                ~Couua~embers
                                                Please distribute to all
              ).eArnl"j e,,')(f.erie~,.e,       250 Hamilton Aven~. 7tfi1:Yor
                                                Palo Alto, CA, 94301                                   -
                 a.J,
   I+ i11 cl~te .s   c,o/4bbr~..<li
             bef-wetM. 'f}~ii~
To:           Palo Alto City Council
From:         Evergreen Park residents
Subject:      Evergreen Park-Mayfield RPP Program
Date:         Public hearing February 5, 2018

Summary
The Evergreen Park-Mayfield Residential Parking Program (RPP) has met expectations, reducing
parking congestion on residential streets. During the first six months of the prograi:i, there were few
problems and no reported complaints. In October, 2017, at the start of the second su-month phase
when permits were renewed, there were numerous complaints from businesses who were unable to
renew permits or obtain additional permits.

 Meetings in December, 2017, and January, 2018, between staff and residents and business owners were
 very productive and identified the root causes of the problems obtaining employee parking permits, and
 several recommendations were made by residents and business owners to address these problems. At
 these meetings, staff agreed with the analysis and proposed corrections. Nevertheless, the staff report
 contains few of these recommendations and instead remains essentially unchanged from the staff
 proposal drafted prior to these meetings. The staff proposal is based on insufficient information,
 unsupported assumptions, and offers a "remedy" of increasing the number of employee parking permits
 which does not address the problems actually encountered and which will act to the detriment of the
 RPP and the neighborhood. Implementing the staff proposal will not address problems with the RPP
 and may set an unwarranted precedent that all problems with the RPP should be addressed by
 increasing the parking density in the residential area.

 This memorandum discusses the cause of the problems in the second six-month phase of the RPP, when
 no such problems were encountered previously, disputes the staff analysis which is based on
 unsupported assumptions and standards, and makes specific proposals which are intended to address
 both short term and long term issues with the RPP program.


 Discussion

 Permitting process

 The Evergreen Park-Mayfield RPP pilot began in March, 2017. As noted in their report, staff reached
 out to businesses, particularly medical and dental offices, to assist them in purchasing employee
 parking permits when they went on sale. This appeared to be successful, with most businesses
 obtaining needed employee parking permits. (Indeed, some businesses have indicated that they
 obtained more permits than they actually needed.) There were no significant complaints.

 In October, 2017, when the initial permits expired, the staff did not engage in outreach to businesses.
 Businesses were not notified of the need to renew permits nor of the deadline to do so. Businesses
 have noted that they had difficulty renewing permits online. The staff did not exercise any control over
 the number of permits which a single business could purchase. The result was essentially a "land rush"
 where the first businesses to apply for permits gobbled them up, leaving the medical and dental offices
 unable to purchase permits. Several companies in the California Avenue Business District purchased
many more permits in this second phase than they had initially. Many of ~ese permits are in Zones A
and B where many of the businesses which were unable to purchase penruts are located.

The staff report glosses over the effect of the poor management ?f ~ermit ren~w~s'. leading ?ne to
believe that this situation "just happened". Their previous descnption of the ma?ility of busmesses to
renew permits was that this was due to "increased demand". This is hardly credible. !he.re was .no
significant change in the number of businesses, the number of employees, or a reducuon m parking
which would result in any increase in demand.

Parking occupancy survey

The City hired a consultant to conduct a parking occupancy study. This happened one day in October.
Some aspects of the results match observations of both businesses and residents, especially in the
highly parked areas along El Camino Real. Other results, showing low parking density, are disputed by
local residents. It is difficult to extrapolate from a single observation. (This would be like looking
outside and saying that it was 55° and sunny in Palo Alto, and using this to make decisions throughout
the year.) There is no way to know if the conditions on this particular October day were representative
of the other days, or if there were factors which made parking better or worse on this date. We consider
this survey to be a questionable basis for any proposed changes. We believe that a survey conducted
over perhaps three days would offer much more reliable view of parking in the permit area.

Parking show rate

Without question, not every employee who has an employee parking permit will park their car in the
neighborhood every day or for the full day. But, give the haphazard nature of the permitting process
and the single parking survey, we question the staff's reliance on the values in their table. At the
stakeholder meetings, some businesses mentioned that they actually received more permits than they
needed. There were anecdotal reports that some businesses had purchased and were stockpiling a large
number of permits, currently unused, in case they needed them. This not only exacerbates the problem
of uneven distribution, it artificially lowers the show rate.

Even using the questionable parking occupancy data in the staff report, the show rate ranges from 20%
to 72%. Based on the staff comment at the top of page 8 in the report, where the staff claims that the
number of employee parking permits could be increased three-fold(!!!) without impacting the
neighborhood, the staff appears to assume the validity of the lowest show rate and ignores the highest
show rate.

Parking occupancy standard

 The staff proposes a cap of 60% as a parking occupancy cap. Staff has provided no justification for
 this number and has stated that it is not an established standard either within city planning or traffic
management. We do not know how this cap would relate to either resident or business satisfaction with
the RPP. We believe that resident satisfaction is the only valid measure that we are aware of. While we
might imagine that 100% occupancy would correlate with resident dissatisfaction, and 0% would
correlate with resident satisfaction, we have no basis for belief that the staff number, or any other
number, represents an acceptable parking occupancy cap. Staff has performed no surveys of RPP
residents to find a relationship between satisfaction with the RPP and parking occupancy. Neither have
they provided any industry study or standard which supports their proposed number, or indeed, any
particular number.
The residents oppose establishing any specific parking occupancy standard, lacking in any supporting
evidence, believing that this is arbitrary and capricious.

We are very disturbed by the views expressed by staff that the Evergreen Park and Mayfield
neighborhoods are a nearly unlimited parking resource which can be used to offset shortfalls in parking
in the commercial districts. The suggestion that employee permits could be increased three-fold and
that the City should adopt an inflated parking occupancy target lead us to remind the staff and City
Council that the discussion at hand involves a Residaitial Parking Permit program, not a Corrmsrcial
Parking Permit program.

Permanent increase in employee permits

The staff recommends permanently increasing the number of employee parking permits in the RPP by
40. The staff claims that this will satisfy current business needs (which we will address below). This
may be true, but it does nothing to address the cause of the problems that businesses encounter. The
staff report offers no credible support for an argument that there are insufficient employee parking
permits; indeed they make no attempt to make this claim.

The root cause of the inability of businesses to purchase permits is not insufficient permits, but the
inconsistent and uneven distribution of the permits. It is difficult to reconcile that there were, from all
appearances, adequate employee parking permits during the first six months, and suddenly a significant
deficit at the start of the second six months, following permit renewals. Adding permits is a "quick fix"
which makes the situation better in the short term, but which will not address the root cause of the
business' problems.

We are very concerned that an increase in the number of parking permits, without addressing the root
cause of the permit allocation problems, will set an undesirable precedent. Every imagined (or real)
increase in parking demand will be addressed by an increase in the number of employee parking
permits. We see foreshadowing of this in the recent staff proposal to reduce the size of the Sherman
Ave. garage, where the loss of parking spaces was to be offset by an increase in the number of permits
in the surrounding RPP.

New zone structure

The staff proposes to split the current Zone A and Zone B in two, creating six zones instead of four.
While we dispute the estimates of parking occupancy, based on an inadequate survey, we support this
change. Some residents have expressed the opinion that a better division would be to split the current
Zone B along Ash Street, similar to the proposed splitting of current Zone A. This would allow more
focus on the El Camino Real business area and the adjacent impacted residential area.

Parking along El Camino Real

El Camino Real and the adjacent Stanford campus are integral and important parts of the parking
problems in Evergreen Park and should be part of the solution. Currently there are no restrictions on
parking on El Camino Real between College Avenue and Park Boulevard. Drivers going to Stanford or
taking CalTrain who had previously parked in the Evergreen Park neighborhood simply moved to El
Camino Real when the RPP was created. Where it was previously possible for employees and
customers of businesses on El Camino Real to find parking, now all spaces are occupied beginning in
the early morning for the entire day.
The staff recommend establishing a 2 hour parking zone along the east side of El Camino Real. While
this will help address this problem, local business employees who park in this area will have to move
their cars every two hours. The staff doesn't mention the west side of El Camino Real, which, under
their proposed change, will continue to be long-term free parking for people going to Stanford.

We support the dentists' recommendation that both east and west side of El Camino Real be
incorporated into the Evergreen Park-Mayfield RPP. We believe that the staff's concern that residents
will park on El Camino Real in preference to parking near their homes is unfounded. We also cannot
understand how incorporating this area into the RPP would result in increases in neighborhood traffic,
since, as the staff report mentions, several streets do not have outlets onto El Camino Real.

We also recommend that staff reach out to Stanford to address El Camino Real being used for long
term Stanford parking rather than the many parking areas on the Stanford campus. People visiting or
working on the Stanford campus should have parking permits for Stanford lots, rather than overflowing
into the adjacent neighborhoods.

Employee purchase of parking permits

We recommend that the City only sell parking permits to employers. This matches a recommendation
by area dentists. Selling permits to both employers and employees has allowed certain businesses to
obtain a large number of permits at the same time their employees obtain a large number of permits.
This is one of the causes of the uneven distribution of employee parking permits in October.

Permit distribution

In addition to improving communication between the City and business in the RPP area, including
advanced notice (in writing) of permit renewal, we recommend that permits be issued with the
following priorities:

    •   Permits should be issued in zones closest to the business location
    •   Preference should be given to neighborhood-serving businesses, permit renewals, and
        businesses which do not participate in the California Avenue Parking Assessment District
    •   Permits may be issued only to businesses listed in the Palo Alto Business Registry
    •   Businesses with low income workers are to be given preference
    •   Businesses with a Traffic Demand Management plan are given lowest priority
    •   Fair and equitable distribution of permits
        0
            Based on number of employees per business
        0
            Avoid concentrations of permits at any one location
        ° Consider the number of businesses at any one location

It is our understanding that businesses or buildings which have an established Traffic Demand
Management plan should have programs in place which address both traffic and parking. TDMs were
adopted in exchange for reductions in building parking requirements. The terms of the TDM should be
                                   1




followed to address parking requirements rather than use RPP employee parking permits.

The staff is encouraged to maintain a listing of the businesses in the RPP area, the number of permits
issued to each business, and to maintain a waiting list for permits. This will establish continuity and
stability in the employee permitting process which is currently absent.
Exigent circumstances

As a result of the problems in permit distribution, a number of neighborhood-serving businesses,
including (but not limited to) medical and dentist offices, have been unable to obtain desired employee
parking permits. Evergreen Park residents appreciate the contribution that these businesses make to the
neighborhood and believe that the businesses have made a good faith effort to accommodate changes in
their businesses as a result of the RPP and to comply with the RPP requirements.

To address these exigent circumstances, the residents propose that the City issue a total of 40
tarporary employee parking permits, valid until October 1, 2018, to the businesses along El Camino
Real which have been unable to obtain permits. We believe that these temporary permits will address
the short-term needs of the businesses and allow the staff adequate time to create a permit distribution
system which follows the mentioned priorities and fairly distributes the employee parking permits to
area businesses.

Summary

Evergreen Park residents agree that the successful Evergreen Park-Mayfield Residential Parking Permit
program should be made permanent. The residents support rezoning the RPP area to allow better
management. Residents support replacing the current "land grab" permit distribution method, which
caused many complaints from neighborhood businesses, with a fair and equitable permit distribution
method. Residents oppose any permanent increase in the number of employee parking permits,
believing that this is not supported by known facts and current circumstances. Residents oppose the
imposition of any arbitrary parking density standard, since this does not have any factual basis.
Residents support issuing a number of tanporary employee parking permits to address exigent
circumstances caused by unbalanced distribution of permits.
                                      P-=tS
                                     eG'1NGIL MEETING
                                      2./13/2A tf>
M       Gmail
                                     OReceived Before Meeting
                                       ecelved at Meetln                              Karen Porter <porter.k1 O@gmail.com>



Daily report summary for Karen Porter
1 message

reporters@jetnoise.net <reporters@jetnoise.net>                                                    Fri, Feb 9, 2018 at 12:42 AM
Reply-To: reporters@jetnoise.net
To: porter.k1 O@gmail.com


  Hello, Karen Porter !

 All of these complaints have already been auto-submitted to SFO, so please do not forward this email to sfo.noise - they
 already have them all !

 This is a list of 28 reports relating to jets on flight paths for SFO, SJC and OAK. Where possible, the aircraft were
 identified via flightradar24.com.

  My details:


    Caller code:
    Name:           Karen Porter
    Address:        •   Greer Rd, Palo Alto, CA, United States


  The 28 reports:


    Thu, Feb 08, 10:24      Flight: AS 382 (SEA-SFO] (8738; speed: 233 knots, altitude: 4427.069401413333 ft, distance:
    PM                      4 KM)
    Thu, Feb 08, 10:21      Flight: AA6039 [LAX-SFO] (E75L; speed: 180 knots, altitude: 2518.6533641941332 ft,
    PM                      distance: 11 KM)
    Thu, Feb 08, 06:16      Flight: BR 28 [TPE-SFO] (877W; speed: 190 knots, altitude: 3845.414052832 ft, distance: 1
    PM                      KM)
    Thu, Feb 08, 06:05      Flight: AA6018 [LAX-SFO) (E75L; speed: 180 knots, altitude: 3840.427314203733 ft, distance:
    PM                      1 KM)
    Thu, Feb 08, 06:03      Flight: DL4822 [LAX-SFO] (E75L; speed: 182 knots, altitude: 3980.5485152384 ft, distance: 1
    PM                      KM)
    Thu, Feb 08, 05:39      Flight: AS1923 [LAX-SFO) (A320; speed: 207 knots , altitude: 4993.852310075733 ft, distance:
    PM                      2 KM)
    Thu, Feb 08, 05:37      Flight: AS1279 (SJD-SFO] (A319; speed: 189 knots, altitude: 4625.3087338464 ft, distance: 2
    PM                      KM)
    Thu, Feb 08, 04:03      Flight: UA5606 [GEG-SFO] (E75L; speed: 213 knots, altitude: 3832.123103985067 ft,
    PM                      distance: 0 KM)
    Volume was "TOO LOUD".
    Thu, Feb 08, 04:02      Flight: UA 1687 [SJD-SFO] (A320; speed: 188 knots, altitude: 4279.4850549376 ft, distance: 2
    PM                      KM) .
    Thu, Feb 08, 03:46      Flight: WN1171 [LAX-SFO] (8737; speed: 187 knots, altitude: 2743.1308829184 ft, distance: 9
    PM                      KM)
    Speedbrakes were heard !
    Thu, Feb 08, 03:41      Flight: AS 346 [PDX-SFO] (8739; speed: 270 knots, altitude: 5723.644052224 ft, distance: 6
    PM                      KM)
    Thu, Feb 08, 03:27      Flight: AA 835 [PHX-SFO] (A319; speed: 221 knots, altitude: 4530.138759633067 ft, distance:
    PM                      2 KM)
  111u, rt:u uo, UL.UI   r11ym. " " ::7..:>0 [\Jrn-.:>rVJ \M..:>"+..:>, l:>fJt::t::U. L..:>L l\llUl::i, c:lllllUUt:: . "+ ILO. I l"+O"t"t/ ( 000( ll, Ull:>lc:llll..t::.
 PM                      1 KM)
 Thu, Feb 08, 01 :46     Flight: KE 25 [ICN-SFO] (877W; speed: 214 knots, altitude: 3750.5348792106665 ft, distance:
 PM                      0 KM)
 Thu, Feb 08, 01 :40     Flight: UA5203 [PSP-SFO] (E75L; speed: 268 knots, altitude: 3765.239832704 ft, distance: 4
 PM                      KM)
 Thu, Feb 08, 01:30      Flight: KE 25 [ICN-SFO) (B77W; speed: 220 knots, altitude: 4087.3774345024 ft, distance: 1
 PM                      KM)
 Thu, Feb 08, 01 :26     Flight: AA6013 [LAX-SFO) (E75L; speed: 242 knots, altitude: 4156.5658389376 ft, distance: 2
 PM                      KM)
 Thu, Feb 08, 01 :21
                         Flight: CM 208 [PTY-SFO] (8738; speed: 197 knots, altitude: 3750 ft, distance: 4 KM)
 PM
 Thu, Feb 08, 01 :18     Flight: EK 225 [DXB-SFO) (A388; speed: 229 knots, altitude: 3935.6360218624 ft, distance: 2
 PM                      KM)
 Thu, Feb 08, 01 :16     Flight: UA 1778 [RNO-SFO) (8738; speed: 223 knots, altitude: 3994.5375391072 ft, distance:
 PM                      1 KM)
 Thu, Feb 08, 01:12      Flight: UA1209 [PHX-SFO) (8739; speed: 246 knots, altitude: 5227.529672576 ft, distance: 2
 PM                      KM)
  Thu, Feb 08, 01 :09    Flight: WN 345 [PHX-SFO] (8737; speed: 256 knots, altitude: 5407.5380268992 ft, distance: 3
  PM                     KM)
  Thu, Feb 08, 01 :07
  PM
  Thu, Feb 08, 01 :03
  PM
  Thu, Feb 08, 01 :01
  PM
                         Flight: DL4912 [LAX-SFO] (E75L; speed: 227 knots, altitude: 5150.4950399552 ft, distance: 2
                         KM)
                         Flight: UA 447 [LAX-SFO] (A320; speed: 265 knots, altitude: 3725.6318288938664 ft,
                         distance: 2 KM)
                         Flight: UA 390 [SAN-SFO] (A319; speed: 287 knots, altitude: 6374.243043675733 ft, distance:
                         7 KM)
                                                                                                                                             -
  Thu, Feb 08, 11 :50    Flight: UA 708 [LAX-SFO] (8738; speed: 184 knots, altitude: 4035.1720054944 ft, distance: 1
  AM                     KM)
  Thu, Feb 08, 10:29     Flight: AA6044 [LAX-SFO] (E75L; speed: 211 knots, altitude: 4381.504525764267 ft, distance:
  AM                     1 KM)
  Thu, Feb 08, 10:26     Flight: UA1863 [LAX-SFO] (A320; speed: 271 knots, altitude: 5204.5898714848 ft, distance: 2
  AM                     KM)


Thank you.
