            DOCUMENTS IN THIS PACKET INCLUDE:


                LETTERS FROM CITIZENS TO THE
                   MAYOR OR CITY COUNCIL


    RESPONSES FROM STAFF TO LETTERS FROM CITIZENS


        ITEMS FROM MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS


      ITEMS FROM OTHER COMMITTEES AND AGENCIES


ITEMS FROM CITY, COUNTY, STATE, AND REGIONAL AGENCIES




        Prepared for:            6/4/2018
       Document dates: 5/16/2018 – 5/23/2018

                                Set 2/3
 Note: Documents for every category may not have been received for packet
                      reproduction in a given week.




                                                                      701-32
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/18/2018 4:13 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Carnahan, David
Sent:                              Friday, May 18, 2018 2:25 PM
To:                                Council, City
Cc:                                Amrutha Kattamuri; susan downs; Lait, Jonathan; Atkinson, Rebecca; Paul McGavin;
                                   Kniss, Liz (internal)
Subject:                           RE: 5/21/18 Independent Appeals of the Independent Cell Tower Applications in
                                   Verizon Wireless Project 17PLN-00169


Good afternoon Council Members,

Find correspondence below relating to Agenda Item Number 6 on Monday’s Council Agenda.

This correspondence is part of the public record for Verizon Wireless Project 17PLN‐00169 and will also be retained with
Public Letters to Council.

Thank you,

  David Carnahan, Deputy City Clerk, MPA
  O: 650‐329‐2267 | E: david.carnahan@cityofpaloalto.org



From: Paul McGavin [mailto:paul.mcgavin@scientists4wiredtech.com]
Sent: Friday, May 18, 2018 1:32 PM
To: Kniss, Liz (internal) <Liz.Kniss@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Carnahan, David <David.Carnahan@CityofPaloAlto.org>
Cc: Amrutha Kattamuri <vkattamuri@yahoo.com>; susan downs <susanrdowns@hotmail.com>; Lait, Jonathan
<Jonathan.Lait@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Atkinson, Rebecca <Rebecca.Atkinson@CityofPaloAlto.org>
Subject: 5/21/18 Independent Appeals of the Independent Cell Tower Applications in Verizon Wireless Project 17PLN‐
00169

Dear Mr. Carnahan and Mayor Kniss.

Will you please ensure that this email gets into the public record for Verizon Wireless
Project 17PLN-00169?

We will will bring our PowerPoint presentation loaded onto a USB stick and onto a
MacBook Pro laptop, equipped with a mini-display port .

We must prepare 20-minute, 10-minute and 5-minute versions of our presentation,
since we have still not heard from Mayor Liz Kniss about whether or not she will
respect Amrutha Kattamuri's and Susan Down's due process for the Appeal AP-
18-8 at the 5/21/18 City Council hearing. We would appreciate hearing from her by
5:00 pm today, May 18, 2018. It would save us some work over the weekend.
                                                           37
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/18/2018 4:13 PM


Earlier today, we left Mayor Kniss another voicemail message on her cell phone: 650-
888-8671, asking her to please respond. We also left another message for Jonathon
Lait at 650-329-2679. We have heard back from neither. Mayor Kniss, will you please
respond by email or return our call by 5:00 pm today? You can reach Amrutha
Kattamuri at 408-226-8821 or Paul McGavin at 415-382-4040.

From the Palo Alto City Council Procedures


      Paragraph A: In the case of a quasi-judicial/planned community hearing for which
      there are two or more appellants, the time allowed for presentation and rebuttal
      shall be divided among all appellants, and the total time allowed for all appellants
      shall be a total of twenty minutes for the opening presentation and six minutes for
      rebuttal before the hearing is closed;

      Paragraph B: However, under no circumstances shall an individual appellant be
      given less than five minutes for presentation and three minutes for rebuttal.

>>> On 5/17/18 @ 4520pm, Paul McGavin wrote to Mayor Kniss:

      It is illogical to apply paragraph B and not apply paragraph A to Amrutha
      Kattamuri and Susan Downs' joint appeal because there is only one appeal
      attached to Amrutha Kattamuri and Susan Downs' payment of $280 and that
      appeal is AP-18-8.

      Mayor Kniss, will you please respond by granting of "twenty minutes for the
      opening presentation and six minutes for rebuttal before the hearing is closed" to
      Amrutha Kattamuri and Susan Downs' joint appeal (AP-18-8) on the City Council
      date of your choice by specifying the date and responding to this email?

Jonathon Lait made an error by grouping into one agendized item on the 5/21/18 City
Council agenda -- seven separate, independent appeals (for which the City of Palo Alto
collected seven separate, independent appeal fees from the appellants) regarding 11
separate, independent cell tower applications (for which the applicants paid the City of
Palo Alto 11 separate, independent application fees).All of this substantial evidence is
in the public record.

                                                     38
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/18/2018 4:13 PM


By mistakenly grouping these separate, independent business transactions into a single
agenda item, the City of Palo Alto is violating the due process rights of the
appellants. We are asking the City of Palo Alto to correct this mistake by listing each of
the seven separate, independent appeals as seven separate, independent agenda
items. Problem solved. In doing so, the City has the ability to scheduled these
independent appeals on different dates, ensuring there is no undue time pressures for
any one City Council meeting.

We are asking for immediate relief from this mistake in the agenda and a solution from
Mayor Kniss based on the substantial evidence is in the public record which must take
priority over the mistake made by Jonathon Lait when he drafted the agenda. The City
Clerk's office just accepting this mistake without any critical thinking or analysis is very
disappointing.

The stonewalling that we have experienced this week at the hands of City of Palo Alto
employees is both discouraging and damaging. We will not allow bureaucratic inertia
to steal our rights. We are defending our rights in the appeal process of these
unnecessary intrusive, ugly, noisy and hazardous so-called "Small Cell" Cell towers
planned for our residential neighborhood.

Thank you.

>>> On 5/18/18, David Carnahan wrote:

       Amrutha,

       See below, please let me know if you have follow‐up questions,

         David Carnahan, Deputy City Clerk, MPA

         O: 650‐329‐2267 | E: david.carnahan@cityofpaloalto.org
       From: Amrutha Kattamuri [mailto:vkattamuri@yahoo.com]
       Sent: Friday, May 18, 2018 12:30 PM
       To: Clerk, City <city.clerk@cityofpaloalto.org>; Carnahan, David
       <David.Carnahan@CityofPaloAlto.org>
       Cc: Paul McGavin <paul.mcgavin@scientists4wiredtech.com>
       Subject: Mechanics for bringing our presentation slides


       Hi David,
                                                            39
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/18/2018 4:13 PM


       Please confirm the following ASAP:

       We are planning to bring our presentation deck for the appeals hearing on
       Monday, May 21st.

       Option 1. We can email you our presentation over the weekend.
                 Carnahan: Please email both david.carnahan@cityofpaloalto.org
       and beth.minor@cityofpaloalto.org, before 3pm on Monday. The
       presentation would be loaded on the City computer in the Chambers (part
       of Option 2).

       Option 2: We can use the city laptop to download and show our
       presentation at the hearing - before the meeting. How do we secure city
       laptop? Is there a procedure?
              Carnahan: The City computer is connected to the Internet and
       could be used to download the presentation. Alternately, the presentation
       could be loaded on the City computer via a USB stick or from an email to
       Beth and myself. With this option, we would appreciate receiving the email
       by 3pm or a USB stick at the beginning of the meeting. The computer is
       protected by the City’s internal network security protocols, however, I am
       not familiar with these details.

       Option 3: Bring our own laptop with the presentation

       a. Make sure to bring the presentation saved on a USB stick
               Carnahan: Thank you, backups are important in case any difficulties
       arise connecting your laptop.

       b. We have to make sure to bring a VGA cable
               Carnahan: No need to bring the cable. The Chambers has a VGA
       cable that can be connected to the VGA port on your laptop. We have a few
       adapters, such as a mini-display port to VGA for Apple laptops.


       Thanks,
       Amrutha
                                                     40
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/18/2018 4:13 PM


--
Regards,




Paul McGavin
Scientists For Wired Technology
work: 415-382-4040
text: 707-939-5549
skype: paulmcgavin




                                                     41
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/18/2018 4:13 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Amrutha Kattamuri <vkattamuri@yahoo.com>
Sent:                         Friday, May 18, 2018 3:51 PM
To:                           Council, City; Carnahan, David; Architectural Review Board; Clerk, City
Cc:                           susan downs; Lait, Jonathan; Atkinson, Rebecca; Paul McGavin; Kniss, Liz (internal)
Subject:                      Studies to be placed into the public record for Verizon Wireless Project 17PLN-00169
                              -- Part 1



       Hello All,

       Could you please place this email with the links below into the
       public record for Verizon Wireless Project 17PLN-00169?

       1. This recent expose on wireless industry attempts to halt
       information on health impacts linked to cell phones in The Nation.
       Mark Dowie is somewhat local - Marin - and I am sure would
       speak to you if you wanted to ask him about this:
       https://www.thenation.com/arti cle/how-big-wireless-made-us-
       think-that-cell-phones-are-saf e-a-special-investigation/

       2. Two major studies have been released in the past few months
       demonstrating clear links cancer from wireless radiation. One is
       the US National Toxicology Program (NTP) research
       demonstrating "clear evidence" of cancer from their study on cell
       phone radiation, and a study by a respected research institute in
       Italy - the Ramazzini Institute - replicating cell tower base radiation
       and finding the same brain and heart tumors as the NTP study -
       both on rats and mice engineered to be similar to human
       biology. https://www.scientifi camerican.com/article/new-
       studies-link-cell-phone- radiation-with-cancer/

       3. Last year, the California Department of Public Health was
       forced to release guidelines its own scientists had created - but that
       had been suppressed for seven
                                                      42
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/18/2018 4:13 PM
       years. https://www.cdph.ca.gov/Progr ams/OPA/Pages/NR17-
       086.aspx

       Thanks,
       Amrutha




                                                     43
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:41 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Debbie Mytels <dmytels@batnet.com>
Sent:                           Sunday, May 20, 2018 8:51 AM
To:                             Council, City
Cc:                             Kniss, Liz (external); Scharff, Greg; Cory Wolbach; Tom Dubois; Filseth, Eric (external);
                                Greg Tanaka; Holman, Karen (external); Lydia Kou; Adrian Fine; Clerk, City; Architectural
                                Review Board; Christopher Linn
Subject:                        Oppose Cell Phone Transmitters



Re: Appeal of Verizon proposed permit for cell equipment at 2802 Louis Road’


Dear Councilmembers,

I live at 2824 Louis Road, and one of the proposed Verizon transmitters would be placed outside my bedroom
window.

However, this issue is not just about individual homes in South Palo Alto. This issue affects our whole
community — and we appreciate the Council taking time to hear these appeals. Others have made significant
comments about how these transmitters are ugly mechanical intrusions into our green neighborhoods, as well as
the potential for injuries and broken roofs if an earthquake were to send this top-heavy equipment collapsing
onto our homes.

One of the other important concerns — that affects our whole community — is that using our City’s network
of utility poles to hold these transmitters will likely preclude further work in undergrounding our utility
lines. These ugly and decrepit wires strung across our streets are vulnerable to being knocked down by tree
branches in a windstorm, knocking out our electricity and causing fires. While part of the town now has these
wires underground, putting the Verizon transmitters atop poles will make it all the more expensive to make
improvements that will benefit the whole community.

As a multi-billion dollar company, Verizon certainly has the resources to do the right thing by Palo Alto and
install its equipment underground, as it has done in other communities. We should not let them get away with
treating Palo Alto on the cheap. Moreover, as usual, what happens in Palo Alto can set the standard for other
communities. The Council can require that Verizon create a quiet and aesthetically desirable alternative to
noisy and ugly pole-topped transmitters. Requiring innovation in their design would ultimately benefit other
communities — and Palo Alto (and Verizon) would be seen as leaders.

Our neighborhoods do not need to be destroyed in order for Verizon to improve its 5G capacity so that its
customers can watch video movies on their cell phones. Not only does Verizon have plans to install over 150
such transmitters throughout Palo Alto — but other cell phone companies will want to follow suit so that
they too will have the capacity for their subscribers to watch 5G quality movies on their cell phones while
driving around.

Verizon should also make sure that its batteries and fans do not exceed noise levels permitted by Palo Alto’s
noise ordinances. Once these transmitters are installed, the company can increase their size and capacity, just as
long as they don’t exceed Federal standards. Increasing the battery size, for example, can increase noise
levels. Who wants to live next to a noisy transmitter? Noise, along with the unsightliness, will adversely affect
                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:41 AM
property values of adjacent homes — will the City Council allow the value of our homes be “taken” by a
decision to install this commercial equipment?

In short, I join with the appelants, including my next door neighbors, Christopher Linn and Tricia
Kellison, in asking you to deny the Verizon permit for 2802 Louis Road, and all the other 11 sites in South
Palo Alto.

Thank you for your attention to this important concern.

Sincerely,


Debbie Mytels



Debbie Mytels
2824 Louis Road. Palo Alto, CA 94303
(650) 856-7580
dmytels@batnet.com
"Remembering the Future in our Actions Every Day"




                                                          2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:41 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Barbara Kelly <bmkelly@hotmail.com> on behalf of Barbara Kelly
                              <barbara.kelly@gmail.com>
Sent:                         Sunday, May 20, 2018 12:46 AM
To:                           Council, City
Cc:                           Clerk, City; Architectural Review Board
Subject:                      Overturn Decision to Allow Verizon Use of Telephone Polls



City Council Members:

Three reasons Verizon should not be allowed access to Palo Alto telephone polls:


       Verizon's on-the-pole installations do not comply with Palo Alto's aesthetics, noise, and
        other ordinances.



       Verizon's claims that it cannot underground its equipment are not credible.



       Verizon should locate its equipment underground, in flush-to-the-ground vaults with no
        protuberances, and none of its equipment should exceed the noise levels permitted by
        Palo Alto's ordinances.



Please do not allow Verizon to install ugly, noisy, and potentially hazardous equipment on poles
within a few yards of our homes. This would be a betrayal of our residential community. My
husband and I will not be voting for anyone who betrays this trust. Council members must listen
to their constituents.

Sincerely,

Barbara and Geroge Kelly




                                                      3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:41 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Paul McGavin <paul.mcgavin@scientists4wiredtech.com>
Sent:                         Friday, May 18, 2018 5:36 PM
To:                           Kniss, Liz (internal); Filseth, Eric (Internal); DuBois, Tom; Fine, Adrian; Holman, Karen;
                              Kou, Lydia; Scharff, Gregory (internal); Tanaka, Greg; Wolbach, Cory; Minor, Beth
Cc:                           Lait, Jonathan; Carnahan, David; Atkinson, Rebecca; Amrutha Kattamuri; Susan Downs
Subject:                      Substantial Evidence That Proves No Significant Gap in Verizon Coverage for Verizon
                              Wireless Project 17PLN-0016



May 18, 2018

Mayor Liz Kniss <liz.kniss@cityofpaloalto.org>
Ms. Beth Minor <beth.minor@cityofpaloalto.org>
City Clerk, City of Palo Alto
250 Hamilton Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94301
650-329-2379

Also addressed to:
Vice Mayor Eric Filseth <eric.filseth@cityofpaloalto.org>
Council Member Tom DuBois <tom.dubois@cityofpaloalto.org>
Council Member Adrian Fine <adrian.fine@cityofpaloalto.org>
Council Member Karen Holman <karen.holman@cityofpaloalto.org>
Council Member Lydia Kou <lydia.kou@cityofpaloalto.org>
Council Member Gregory Scharff <greg.scharff@cityofpaloalto.org>
Council Member Greg Tanaka <greg.tanaka@cityofpaloalto.org>
Council Member Cory Wolbach <cory.wolbach@cityofpaloalto.org>

cc: Jonathan Lait <jonathan.lait@cityofpaloalto.org>
    David Carnahan <david.carnahan@cityofpaloalto.org>
   Rebecca Atkinson <rebecca.atkinson@cityofpaloalto.org>
   Amrutha Kattamuri <vkattamuri@yahoo.com>
   Susan Downs <susanrdowns@hotmail.com>


Dear Mayor Kniss and other City Council members,


                                                         4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:41 AM
Re: Substantial Evidence That Proves No Significant Gap in Verizon Coverage for
Verizon Wireless Project 17PLN-0016

Will you please ensure that this email and the video, 2018-0422 No Significant Gap in
Verizon Coverage in Palo Alto, CA: Cluster One (https://youtu.be/DWSz-LLLJwI) gets
placed into the public record for Verizon Wireless Project 17PLN-00169?

On 4/22/18, the residents of Palo Alto visited all 11 locations targeted by Verizon
Wireless Project 17PLN-00169, measured the pulsed, data-modulated, peak
Radiofrequency Microwave Radiation at each location and completed a call at each
location using an iPhone on the Verizon network. In completing this work, the residents
of Palo Alto proved there is no Significant Gap in Verizon Coverage per the
definition of Significant Gap in Coverage adopted by the United States Court of
Appeals, Ninth Circuit. (https://caselaw.findlaw.com/us-9th-circuit/1406360.html)

      METROPCS, INC., a Delaware Corporation, Plaintiff-Appellant-Cross-Appellee, v.
      The CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO and The Board of Supervisors of the
      City of San Francisco, Defendants-Appellees-Cross-Appellants.Nos. 03-16759, 03-
      16760. Decided: March 07, 2005

In addition, we have found no substantial evidence in the public record for Verizon
Wireless Project 17PLN-00169 that proves that a Significant Gap in Verizon Coverage
exists anywhere in the mid-Town Palo Alto neighborhood near the 11 locations listed
below -- which is the burden of proof needed to be provided by the applicant.

Without proof of a significant gap in Verizon coverage, there is no basis for preemption
of local authority over the placement, construction and modification of Wireless
Telecommunications Facilities. Accordingly, Palo Alto can and should make the finding
that the substantial evidence in the public record for Verizon Wireless Project 17PLN-
00169 proves that there is no Significant Gap in Verizon Coverage in the any of the
11 locations targeted by Verizon Wireless Project 17PLN-00169, and therefore all 11
cell towers should be denied.

Further, if a Significant Gap in Verizon Coverage had been proven by substantial
evidence in the public record provided by the applicant, which it has not, then placing
these unnecessary intrusive, ugly and hazardous so-called "Small Cell" Cell towers
planned for our residential neighborhood is not the least intrusive means to close
                                                     5
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:41 AM
any alleged Significant Gap in Verizon Coverage.

These are strong findings that the City of Palo Alto can and should make to deny all 11
applications for Verizon Wireless Project 17PLN-0016.

Substantial Evidence That Proves No Significant Gap in Verizon
Coverage
. . . In Palo Alto Cluster One: 11 Nodes Proposed for Verizon Wireless Verizon Wireless Project
17PLN-00169 (View the video at https://youtu.be/DWSz-LLLJwI )

   1. Node #129 CPAU Pole# 3121 (Near 2490 Louis Road, APN 127- 30-062):
      44 µW/m² pulsed, data-modulated, peak Radiofrequency Microwave Radiation
      Video @ 03:10 — Q: "Can you hear us?" A: "As clear as a clear blue sky."
   2. Node #130: CPAU Pole #2461 (Near 2802 Louis Road, APN 127- 28-046):
      612 µW/m² pulsed, data-modulated, peak Radiofrequency Microwave Radiation
      Video @ 02:14 Q: "Can you hear us?" A: "I have one word for you —
      phenomenal."
   3. Node #131: CPAU Pole #3315 (Near 891 Elbridge Way, APN 127- 26-067):
      1,304 µW/m² pulsed, data-modulated, peak Radiofrequency Microwave
      Radiation
      Video @ 1:05 — Q: "Can you hear us?" A: "I can hear you great."
   4. Node #133E: CPAU Pole #2856 (Near 949 Loma Verde, APN 127- 24-020)
      6 µW/m² pulsed, data-modulated, peak Radiofrequency Microwave Radiation
      Video @ 5:02 — Q: "Can you hear us?" A: "Yeah, that's super clear."
   5. Node #134: CPAU Pole #2964 (Near 3409 Kenneth Dr ., APN 127- 09-028):
      250 µW/m² pulsed, data-modulated, peak Radiofrequency Microwave Radiation
      Video @ 09:30 — Q: "Can you hear us?" A: "Yes, you are very clear."
   6. Node #135: CPAU Pole # 3610 (Near 795 Stone Ln., APN 127- 47-001):
      15 µW/m² pulsed, data-modulated, peak Radiofrequency Microwave Radiation
      Video @ 11:16 — Q: "Can you hear us?" A: "Yeah, this sounds great.."
   7. Node #137: CPAU Pole #3351 (Near 3090 Ross Rd., APN 127- 52- 031):
      9 µW/m² pulsed, data-modulated, peak Radiofrequency Microwave Radiation
      Video @ 10:26 — Q: "Can you hear us?" A: "Yeah, sounds great."
   8. Node #138: CPAU Pole #2479 (Near 836 Colorado Ave., APN 127- 27-063):
      13 µW/m² pulsed, data-modulated, peak Radiofrequency Microwave Radiation
      Video @ 04:10 — Q: "Can you hear us?" A: "Cannot be clearer than that.."

                                                     6
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:41 AM
   9. Node #143: CPAU Pole #3867 (Near 419 El Verano Av e., APN 132 - 15 - 017):
      111 µW/m² pulsed, data-modulated, peak Radiofrequency Microwave Radiation
      Video @ 12:16 — Q: "Can you hear us?" A: "Yes it sounds great, again."
   10.      Node #144: CPAU Pole #1506 (Near 201 Loma Verde Ave., APN 132 - 48 -
      015):
      190 µW/m² pulsed, data-modulated, peak Radiofrequency Microwave Radiation
      Video @ 08:40 — Q: "Can you hear us?" A: "As beautiful as sunny California."
   11.      Node #145: CPAU Pole #3288 (Near 737 Loma Verde Ave., APN 127 - 64 -
      039):
      888 µW/m² pulsed, data-modulated, peak Radiofrequency Microwave Radiation
      Video @ 07:55 — Q: "Can you hear us?" A: "Has never been this clear.
      Unbelievable."


--
Regards,




Paul McGavin
Scientists For Wired Technology
work: 415-382-4040
text: 707-939-5549
skype: paulmcgavin




                                                     7
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:41 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Amrutha Kattamuri <vkattamuri@yahoo.com>
Sent:                            Sunday, May 20, 2018 9:33 AM
To:                              Council, City; Carnahan, David; Architectural Review Board; Clerk, City
Cc:                              susan downs; Lait, Jonathan; Atkinson, Rebecca; Paul McGavin; Kniss, Liz (internal)
Subject:                         Studies to be placed into the public record for Verizon Wireless Project 17PLN-00169
                                 -- Part 2
Attachments:                     BROWN - HONORABLE EDMUND G (1).pdf; Golomb Beatrice Sept 2017 FINAL.pdf;
                                 EHS Treatment Guidelines 2016 (1).docx; Pacemaker and defib studies_1.docx;
                                 Pacemaker and defib studies_2.docx



       Hello All,

       List of studies/videos/articles/data/ attachment of letters
       and Studies to be placed into the public record for Verizon
       Wireless Project 17PLN-00169 -- Part2



       1. No significant gap in coverage videos – sent to ARB, City
       Council, City Clerk and Planning Dept on April 30 th 2018

                  a. 2018-0422 No Significant Gap in Verizon Coverage in Palo Alto, CA: Cluster One
                  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DWSz-LLLJwI&feature=youtu.be
                  b. 2018-0422 No Significant Gap in Verizon Coverage in Palo Alto, CA: Cluster Two
                  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3FN5bV_do3Q&feature=youtu.be


           2 . Articles/Videos Sent on March 13th 2018

                  a. Senator Blumenthal, Representative Eshoo Urge FCC to Enforce Exposure Limits for
                  Those Who Work Near Wireless Towers

       Senator Blumenthal, Representative Eshoo Urge FCC to Enforce Exposure Limits for Those Who Work
       Near Wireless Towers




           Senator Blumenthal, Representative Eshoo Urge FCC to
           Enforce Exposure Li...




                                                            1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:41 AM




                  Senator Blumenthal, Representative Eshoo Urge
                  FCC to Enforce Exposure Li...




       b. This is the link to the new and latest study on cell towers (Los Angeles was the study site in the United
       States)

       Cell Phone Towers are Largest Contributor to Environmental Radiofrequency Radiation




           Cell Phone Towers are Largest Contributor to
           Environmental Radiofrequenc...
           Study finds cell towers are largest contributor to environmental
           radiofrequency radiation exposure.




                  Cell Phone Towers are Largest Contributor to
                  Environmental Radiofrequenc...

                  Study finds cell towers are largest contributor to environmental
                  radiofrequency radiation exposure.




       c. CA Dept of Health issues warnings on Cell Phone usage


                                                                      2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:41 AM


       California health officials release guidelines on cellphone radiation




                   California health officials release guidelines on
                   cellphone radiation

                   State health officials aren't saying that cellphones pose health
                   risks, but "the science is evolving"




       d. Julie Watts report on cell towers


ConsumerWatch: 5G Cellphone Towers Signal Renewed Concerns Over Impacts on Health

        e. View four speakers from 1:46:38 through 2:01:15 using this slide presentation.View from 2:01:15 through
       2:18:00 for Santa Rosa City Council members’ comments.




       City of Santa Rosa Council Meeting March 6, 2018




                          City of Santa Rosa Council Meeting March 6,
                          2018

                          City meeting agendas, packets, archives, and live stream
                          are always available at https://santa-rosa.legistar.com




       3. Intereference with medical devices such as Pace makers,
       defibrillators studies and Treatment of Electrosensitivity due to

                                                                        3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:41 AM
                      wireless/microwave radiation exposures from cell towers, smart
                      meters, WiFi routers etc.
                      4. Letters written by a few scientists and Medical Doctors to Governor Brown to Veto SB 649 (to
                      oppose cell towers in residential neighborhoods).

                      Dr. Beatrice Golomb (UC San Diego and other doctors)




                       ConsumerWatch: 5G Cellphone Towers Signal
      Right-click
      download
      help protec
      Outlo ok pr
      auto matic d
      this pictu re
      In ternet.




                       Renewed Concerns Over Impacts ...
                       Wireless carriers are installing millions of towers across the
                       country to enable the new, faster 5G cellphone te...




Thanks,
Amrutha




                                                                                        4
        TO THE HONORABLE EDMUND G. BROWN, JR.
             FROM EXPERTS WORLDWIDE IN
                 OPPOSITION TO SB 649


September 19, 2017

Dear Gov. Brown:

SB 649 is on your desk awaiting your decision, and we respectfully urge a veto. This bill denies
citizens and local governments the right to a voice as to where 50,000 or more new cell towers,
spaced every two to ten homes, will soon be placed. Telecom will be erecting towers in the
rights-of-way, and placing them on utility poles and lampposts in front of our homes, schools,
places of worship and businesses. There will be no escaping the cell towers or the radiation
emitted from them. SB 649 fails to mandate monitoring of radiation levels from these cell towers
at a time when the FCC is closing their regional monitoring offices. A failure to monitor is a
failure to regulate.

SB 649 has passed through the Senate and Assembly despite opposition from the cities of Los
Angeles, San Francisco, and San Jose as well as 297 other cities, the Teamsters, AARP,
Environmental Working Group, Environmental Health Trust, Communications Workers of
America, the League of Cities, California Brain Tumor Association, a host of environmental and
justice groups, and leaders of 47 out of 58 California counties.

There is a substantial body of evidence that this technology is harmful to humans and the
environment. The 5G millimeter wave is known to heat the eyes, skin and testes, and the
ubiquitous placement of these towers will expose California’s population 24/7. Of particular
concern are the most vulnerable among us -- the unborn, children, the infirm, the elderly and the
disabled. It is also expected that populations of bees and birds will drastically decline.

Ironically, the strongest among us, the firefighters, received an exemption from SB 649. After
years of their stations being targeted for cell tower placement, SPECT brain scan testing among a
group of California firefighters revealed abnormalities that included cognitive impairment. This
translated to firefighters occasionally getting lost while driving their emergency equipment
through the streets in the same town they grew up in. Infertility and miscarriages plagued the
department. Perhaps most shocking of all, the cell tower near the station was measured at
1/1000th of the allowed limit set by the FCC.

We support the fire station exemption of SB 649. If the firefighters are impaired, we are all at
risk. Yet this exemption protects the strongest of the strong and forces the most vulnerable
among us to live with the greatest exposure. We find that unacceptable. We also find the health
risks both real and deeply concerning.
In May 2016 the National Toxicology Program, part of the U.S. National Institutes of Health,
released partial results of a $25,000,000 study on laboratory animals which showed a link
between the RF (wireless) radiation and two types of cancer, prompting the American Cancer
Society’s chief medical officer to note that the results “mark a paradigm shift in our
understanding of radiation and cancer risk.’’ The NTP study also found DNA breakage in brain
cells, confirming multiple studies dating back to 1994. The NTP study follows the 2011
classification by IARC, the World Health Organization's cancer committee, of radiofrequency
electromagnetic fields -- including cell tower radiation -- as possibly carcinogenic to humans.
This puts RF radiation in the same category as DDT.

Our children are not just our progeny but the future of our state and our country. Keeping them
safe must be a priority. Our homes must remain our sanctuaries. We currently have the option to
turn wireless off at night, or to not use it at all. With SB 649 there is no "off" switch. Not only
will SB 649 tie our hands as parents and private citizens, but this bill usurps ALL local control.

In a time that begs for strong compassionate leaders, we are turning to you to reject this bill, and
work with independent health and technology experts from around the world to devise a safer
solution so that we can stay connected yet protected.

Respectfully,

Lennart Hardell, MD, PhD
Senior Consultant
Department of Oncology
University Hospital
Orebro, Sweden

Frank Clegg
CEO, Canadians for Safe Technology (C4ST), Oakville, Canada
Former President, Microsoft Canada

Cindy Sage
Sage Associates
Co-Editor, BioInitiative Reports
Montecito, California

Martin Blank, PhD
Department of Physiology (Ret)
Columbia University
New York City, New York

Anthony B. Miller, MD
Professor Emeritus
Dalla Lana School of Public Health
University of Toronto
Canada

                                                 2
Devra Davis, PhD, MPH
Visiting Professor, Hebrew University Hadassah Medical Center
& Ondokuz Mayis University Medical School
President, Environmental Health Trust
Teton Village, Wyoming 83025

Beatrice A. Golomb, MD, PhD
Professor of Medicine
UCSD School of Medicine
San Diego, California

Cindy Russell, MD
Physicians for Safe Technology
Menlo Park, California

Susan Foster
Medical Writer & Organizer, SPECT Brain Scan
Study of California Firefighter (2004)
Honorary Firefighter, San Diego Fire Department
Rancho Santa Fe, California

Ellie Marks, Director
California Brain Tumor Association
San Francisco, California

Andrew A. Marino, PhD, JD
Professor, Department of Neurology (Ret)
LSU Medical School
Shreveport, Louisiana

Jerry L. Phillips, PhD
Executive Director, Excel Centers
Professor Attendant, Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry
University of Colorado
Colorado Springs, Colorado

Martin L. Pall, PhD
Professor Emeritus of Biochemistry and Basic Medical Sciences
Washington State University
Pullman, Washington

Elihu D. Richter, MD, MPH
Professor, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem
The Hebrew University of Jerusalem
Jerusalem Area, Israel

                                                3
Paul Héroux, PhD
Occupational Health Program Director
Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Occupational Health
McGill University Medicine
Montreal, Canada

Dr. Yael Stein MD
Physician and researcher of health effects of electromagnetic radiation
Hebrew University – Hadassah Medical Center
Jerusalem, Israel

Dr. Erica Mallery-Blythe BMBS Soton
Founder of PHIRE (Physicians' Health Initiative for Radiation and Environment)
Trustee RRT (Radiation Research Trust)
Scientific Advisor ORSAA (Oceania Radiofrequency Advisory Association)
Medical Advisor ES-UK
United Kingdom

William J. Rea, M.D.
Environmental Health Center - Dallas
Dallas, Texas




                                                4
Rev Environ Health. 2016 Sep 1;31(3):363-97. doi: 10.1515/reveh-2016-0011.

EUROPAEM EMF Guideline 2016 for the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of
EMF-related health problems and illnesses.
Belyaev I, Dean A, Eger H, Hubmann G, Jandrisovits R, Kern M, Kundi M, Moshammer H, Lercher P, Müller K, Oberfeld
G, Ohnsorge P, Pelzmann P, Scheingraber C, Thill R.

Abstract

Chronic diseases and illnesses associated with non-specific symptoms are on the rise. In addition to chronic stress in
social and work environments, physical and chemical exposures at home, at work, and during leisure activities are causal
or contributing environmental stressors that deserve attention by the general practitioner as well as by all other members
of the health care community. It seems necessary now to take "new exposures" like electromagnetic fields (EMF) into
account. Physicians are increasingly confronted with health problems from unidentified causes. Studies, empirical
observations, and patient reports clearly indicate interactions between EMF exposure and health problems. Individual
susceptibility and environmental factors are frequently neglected. New wireless technologies and applications have been
introduced without any certainty about their health effects, raising new challenges for medicine and society. For instance,
the issue of so-called non-thermal effects and potential long-term effects of low-dose exposure were scarcely investigated
prior to the introduction of these technologies. Common electromagnetic field or EMF sources: Radio-frequency radiation
(RF) (3 MHz to 300 GHz) is emitted from radio and TV broadcast antennas, Wi-Fi access points, routers, and clients (e.g.
smartphones, tablets), cordless and mobile phones including their base stations, and Bluetooth devices. Extremely low
frequency electric (ELF EF) and magnetic fields (ELF MF) (3 Hz to 3 kHz) are emitted from electrical wiring, lamps, and
appliances. Very low frequency electric (VLF EF) and magnetic fields (VLF MF) (3 kHz to 3 MHz) are emitted, due to
harmonic voltage and current distortions, from electrical wiring, lamps (e.g. compact fluorescent lamps), and electronic
devices. On the one hand, there is strong evidence that long-term exposure to certain EMFs is a risk factor for diseases
such as certain cancers, Alzheimer's disease, and male infertility. On the other hand, the emerging electromagnetic
hypersensitivity (EHS) is more and more recognized by health authorities, disability administrators and case workers,
politicians, as well as courts of law. We recommend treating EHS clinically as part of the group of chronic multisystem
illnesses (CMI), but still recognizing that the underlying cause remains the environment. In the beginning, EHS symptoms
occur only occasionally, but over time they may increase in frequency and severity. Common EHS symptoms include
headaches, concentration difficulties, sleep problems, depression, a lack of energy, fatigue, and flu-like symptoms. A
comprehensive medical history, which should include all symptoms and their occurrences in spatial and temporal terms
and in the context of EMF exposures, is the key to making the diagnosis. The EMF exposure is usually assessed by EMF
measurements at home and at work. Certain types of EMF exposure can be assessed by asking about common EMF
sources. It is very important to take the individual susceptibility into account. The primary method of treatment should
mainly focus on the prevention or reduction of EMF exposure, that is, reducing or eliminating all sources of high EMF
exposure at home and at the workplace. The reduction of EMF exposure should also be extended to public spaces such
as schools, hospitals, public transport, and libraries to enable persons with EHS an unhindered use (accessibility
measure). If a detrimental EMF exposure is reduced sufficiently, the body has a chance to recover and EHS symptoms
will be reduced or even disappear. Many examples have shown that such measures can prove effective. To increase the
effectiveness of the treatment, the broad range of other environmental factors that contribute to the total body burden
should also be addressed. Anything that supports homeostasis will increase a person's resilience against disease and
thus against the adverse effects of EMF exposure. There is increasing evidence that EMF exposure has a major impact
on the oxidative and nitrosative regulation capacity in affected individuals. This concept also may explain why the level of
susceptibility to EMF can change and why the range of symptoms reported in the context of EMF exposures is so large.
Based on our current understanding, a treatment approach that minimizes the adverse effects of peroxynitrite - as has
been increasingly used in the treatment of multisystem illnesses - works best. This EMF Guideline gives an overview of
the current knowledge regarding EMF-related health risks and provides recommendations for the diagnosis, treatment
and accessibility measures of EHS to improve and restore individual health outcomes as well as for the development of
strategies for prevention.

PMID:
         27454111
  DOI:
         10.1515/reveh-2016-0011

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27454111
Beatrice Alexandra Golomb, MD, PhD
Professor of Medicine
UC San Diego School of Medicine
9500 Gilman Drive, #0995
La Jolla, CA 92093-0995
Phone: 858 558-4950 x201
                                                                    September 18, 2017


Dear Governor Brown,

I urge in the strongest terms that you veto California SB 649. If you sign this bill, many people will
suffer greatly, and needlessly, as a direct result. This sounds like hyperbole. It is not.


My research group at UC San Diego alone has received hundreds of communications from people who
have developed serious health problems from electromagnetic radiation, following introduction of new
technologies. Others with whom I am in communication, have independently received hundreds of
similar reports. Most likely these are a tip of an iceberg of tens or perhaps hundreds of thousands of
affected person. As each new technology leading to further exposure to electromagnetic radiation is
introduced – and particularly introduced in a fashion that prevents vulnerable individuals from avoiding
it – a new group become sensitized to health effects. This is particularly true for pulsed signals in the
radiowave and microwave portion of the spectrum, the type for which the proposed bill SB 649 will
bypass local control.

Mechanisms by which health effects are exerted have been shown to include oxidative stress (the type
of injury against which antioxidants protect ,see optional section below), damage to mitochondria (the
energy producing parts of cells), damage to cell membranes1, 21, and via these mechanisms, an impaired
“blood brain barrier”3-5 (the blood brain barrier defends the brain against introduction of foreign
substances and toxins; additionally, disruption can lead to brain edema6), constriction of blood vessels
and impaired blood flow to the brain7, and triggering of autoimmune reactions8, 9. Following a large
exposure, that depresses antioxidant defenses, magnifying vulnerability to future exposures, some
persons no longer tolerate many other forms and intensities of electromagnetic radiation that previously
caused them no problem, and that currently cause others no problem. But this group deserves – nay
needs -- the right to be able to avoid these exposures.

Affected individuals not only experience “symptoms” that “merely” cause them distress and
suffering, when they are exposed – symptoms like headaches10, 11, ringing ears10, 11 and chest pain10 from
impaired blood flow, heart rhythm abnormalities10, 11, and inability to sleep10, 11. These symptoms arise
from physiological injury. Moreover, many experience significant health problems that can include
seizures11, heart failure, hearing loss12-14 and severe cognitive impairment11, 15. The mechanisms
involved are those also involved in development and progression of neurodegenerative conditions
including Alzheimer’s disease16.
Fully half who were employed when their problems developed lost their job because of the
problem, among participants of a survey we conducted. They reported that their condition had cost
them up to 2 million dollars to date. Many had lost their homes. A number became homeless, and have
swelled the ranks of so-called “EMF refugees”17-19. Among those affected, many were previously high
functioning individuals – engineers, doctors, lawyers. The best and the brightest are among those whose
lives – and ability to contribute to society –will be destroyed. High profile individuals with
acknowledged electrohypersensitivity include, for instance, Gro Harlem Brundtland – the former 3-time
Prime Minister of Norway and former Director General of the World Health Organization20; Matti
Niemela, former Nokia Technology chief21; as well as the wife of Frank Clegg22, who formerly headed
Microsoft Canada and is current head of Canadians for Safe Technology23.

Each new roll-out of electromagnetic technology for which exposure is obligatory, swells the ranks
of those who develop problems with electromagnetic fields (EMF).- particularly following a
significant exposure to pulsed radiowave-microwave radiation, and particularly when people have no
ability to avoid it.

Many state that they didn’t give credence to the problem (if they had heard of it at all) until they
themselves fell prey to it.

This is not a psychologically driven condition. Multiple objective physiological changes reflecting
mechanisms of injury have been shown in persons with this condition24, 25.

The role for oxidative stress, that has been shown in innumerable studies (below), is affirmed by
evidence of a link of this condition to genetic variants in antioxidant defenses, that are less avid in
defending against oxidative stress307. People cannot manipulate their genes, to produce such an outcome
by suggestibility.

An analysis by a University of Washington researcher showed that most studies funded by
industry reported failure to show physiological effects. However, most studies without such
industry bias affirmed effects. This is redolent of findings shown in medicine26, regarding which the
former editor in chief of the BMJ (the British Medical Journal), Richard Smith, noted, based on findings
of a study, “This {result} suggests that, far from conflict of interest being unimportant in the objective
and pure world of science where method and the quality of data is everything, it is the main factor
determining the result of studies.”27. So where articles deny injury from nonionizing radiowave-
microwave radiation, there is commonly a stake aligned with financial benefit from such denial.

Those who are affected are in desperate need of protection by our elected officials. They need
creation of safe spaces and housing, and roadways to allow travel, not removal of any prospect of one;
protection of local rights to make decisions - not removal of any recourse or ability to avoid what
injures them. They are far more strongly in need of protections than a great many protected classes –
their problems arose due to actions of others, against which they were given no control – and can be
reversed, in most cases, if the assault on them is rolled back. Through no fault of their own, and in some
cases against their will (e.g. before opt out was permitted with smart meters), they were subjected to an
exposure that has altered their lives as they knew them, and forced them – needlessly - to the margins of
society.

Let our focus be on safer, wired and well shielded technology – not more wireless.

This legislation, if passed, and the resulting unrestricted roll-out of this technology, will
predictably and directly injure and disable a new group, and add depth of suffering to those already
affected.

In other spheres we abridge freedoms to protect the vulnerable few. We require that every
schoolchild be vaccinated, supposedly to protect the vulnerable few who may not respond effectively to
a vaccine. The need to protect the vulnerable group is deemed to be so great that it justifies the decision
to abridge individual rights.

In contrast, this bill seeks to abridge individual freedoms, and local rights, in the service of
harming a vulnerable group, and creating a new one.
(The common factor appears to be that in both cases, the direction is aligned with a powerful industry
that influences political decisions.) Luckily, no abridgment of individual rights and freedoms is
required to protect here.

If any group can opt out (such as, I understand, firefighters*)28; then every group deserves that equal
right. Others should not be second class citizens, subject to fewer protections.

It would go far to helping this cause if anyone complicit in promoting or passing the legislation (and
then after that, their families) were required to be the first subjected, for a substantial test period, to the
greatest amount of exposure that anyone else (and their families) may be subjected to, when new
policies of this type are rolled out. It will still not do them equal damage; because they may not represent
the vulnerabilities that others will have; but such a policy might help them to think twice. That is a bill I
would strongly endorse.

Most who are now affected – were not, until they were. This may become you – or your child or
grandchild. Moreover, if you have a child, or a grandchild, his sperm, or her eggs (all of which she will
already have by the time she is a fetus in utero), will be affected by the oxidative stress damage created
by the electromagnetic radiation, in a fashion that may affect your future generations irreparably.

It was noted above that, among survey completers, fully half of those who were employed at the time
they developed electrosensitivity, lost employment due to this problem. (This may understate the scope
of the tragedy, since this most-affected group may be least likely to be able to respond to an online
survey.) Many who previously had no problem navigating in the world are now restricted from
access to basic services like hospital care, post offices and libraries because of these problems. With
each new introduction of technology that exposes many to yet a new nondiscretionary source of
electromagnetic radiation, particularly (but not exclusively) that which emits pulsed radiation in the
radiowave-microwave part of the spectrum, a new group of people are affected; and the suffering of
those who are already affected increases greatly.
Please, defend the public and our future. Protect the rights of the individual and the locality, against a
form of incursion that will lead to serious harm to some – and set a terrible precedent. Please veto
SB 649.

Sincerely,

Beatrice Alexandra Golomb, MD, PhD
Professor of Medicine
UC San Diego School of Medicine


*Comment on the fire fighter exemption: “The legislature granted an exemption from SB 649 to the
firefighters who requested it for health reasons. Throughout California firefighters have long complained
of often disabling symptoms from cell towers on their stations. Cities frequently rent out space on fire
stations to add to city revenue. …Symptoms experienced by the firefighters have included neurological
impairment including severe headache, confusion, inability to focus, lethargy, inability to sleep, and
inability to wake up for 911 emergency calls. Firefighters have reported getting lost on 911 calls in the
same community they grew up in, and one veteran medic forgot where he was in the midst of basic CPR
on a cardiac victim and couldn’t recall how to start the procedure over again…Prior to the installation of
the tower on his station, this medic had not made a single mistake in 20 years. A pilot study (2004) of
California firefighters showed brain abnormalities, cognitive impairment, delayed reaction time, and
lack of impulse control in all 6 firefighters tested (https://ecfsapi.fcc.gov/file/7022117660.pdf). This
study led to the overwhelming passage of Resolution 15 by the International Association of Firefighters
in Boston in August 2004. Res. 15 called for further study and was amended to impose a moratorium on
the placement of cell towers on fire stations throughout the US and Canada.”15 28
Clearly, others who experience similar problems also deserve protections.

Optional – More on the Science
         There is a robust literature showing that electromagnetic radiation, including in
         nonionizing frequencies, and at levels29, 30 below those that are cause thermal effects
         (heating) – causes physiological effects, injury, and cell death –not only in humans but
         many animals and plants3, 7, 31-49. Unsurprisingly, industry has sought – against the tide of
         evidence to the contrary - to maintain that radiation must be ionizing or heating to cause
         injury.

             Scores or hundreds of studies show that radiation, including specifically radiowave-
             microwave spectrum radiation, and including low-level exposure, can impair antioxidant
             defenses, increase “oxidative stress” (free radical injury) and damage mitochondria, the
             energy producing parts of cells1, 2, 34, 50-6930, 70-104105-13646, 137-171. These effects occur with
             ionizing and nonionizing radiation, at thermal and subthermal levels. (Indeed, much or most
             of the damage by ionizing radiation, and radiation above the thermal limit, occurs by
             mechanisms also documented to occur without ionization, and below the thermal limit.) These
mechanisms cohere with the mechanisms documented to play a role in symptoms and health
conditions that are reported in those who are electrosensitive – extending to seizures172-176,
heart failure177-184 and cognitive decline5, 32, 57, 108, 185-195.

These mechanisms have known involvement in induction of brain cancer, metabolic
diseases like obesity and diabetes, autism, autoimmune disease, and neurodegenerative
conditions, conditions that have exploded. In each case these have been linked, or
presumptively linked, in some studies to electromagnetic radiation8, 9, 16, 34, 196-219.

Such radiation also has effects on sperm33, 100, 220-228; and the DNA of sperm229 (consistent
with recent news reports of marked recent declines in sperm counts and function)..

Such radiation also has toxic effects in pregnancy230, to the fetus and subsequent
offspring231-235 including at low levels236, and is tied to developmental problems in later
life, including attention deficit and hyperactivity31, 235-241. It is critical to defend pregnant
women (and eggs of girls who may at a later time become pregnant) from exposures with such
toxicity.

Electromagnetic radiation across much or most of the spectrum (not excluding visible
light) has been shown to depress levels of melatonin40, 72, 242-252, which is best known for its
role in sleep (and indeed, impaired sleep is the most consistent symptom in affected
individuals10, 11).

Melatonin is in fact a critical antioxidant that defends the body against harm from many
toxic exposures253-266 including electromagnetic radiation itself 61, 66, 67, 82, 101, 107, 118, 121, 138,
144, 151, 204, 249, 267-284
                            - reducing the oxidative stress that is implicated in cancer, metabolic
diseases like obesity and diabetes, autism, autoimmune disease, bipolar disorder and
neurodegenerative conditions, and that also plays a role in heart attack and stroke9, 285-329330-
343
    .

Radiation, and specifically radiation in the radiowave-microwave portion of the
spectrum can also depress levels of other critical antioxidant systems that also defend the
body against chemical, radiation, and other sources of injury. These other antioxidant systems
include the glutathione system, superoxide dismutase and catalase81, 102, 115, 116, 233, 344-358 -
which are also involved in defending against health problems.

This suggests that depression of antioxidant defenses due to electromagnetic radiation
may magnify risk of chemically induced health effects (and depression of antioxidant
systems due to some chemicals may amplify risk of harm from electromagnetic
radiation). Indeed just such effects have been reported359, 360.
References.

1.    Benderitter M, Vincent-Genod L, Pouget JP, Voisin P. The cell membrane as a biosensor of oxidative
      stress induced by radiation exposure: a multiparameter investigation. Radiat Res 2003;159:471-83.
2.    Baureus Koch CL, Sommarin M, Persson BR, Salford LG, Eberhardt JL. Interaction between weak low
      frequency magnetic fields and cell membranes. Bioelectromagnetics 2003;24:395-402.
3.    Tang J, Zhang Y, Yang L, et al. Exposure to 900 MHz electromagnetic fields activates the mkp-1/ERK
      pathway and causes blood-brain barrier damage and cognitive impairment in rats. Brain Res
      2015;1601:92-101.
4.    Nittby H, Brun A, Eberhardt J, Malmgren L, Persson BR, Salford LG. Increased blood-brain barrier
      permeability in mammalian brain 7 days after exposure to the radiation from a GSM-900 mobile phone.
      Pathophysiology 2009;16:103-12.
5.    Zhang. Exposure to 900 MHz electromagnetic fields activates the mpk-1/ERK pathway and causes blood-
      brain barrier damage and cognitive impairment in rats. Brain Res 2015;1609:92-101.
6.    Adair JC, Baldwin N, Kornfeld M, Rosenberg GA. Radiation-induced blood-brain barrier damage in
      astrocytoma: relation to elevated gelatinase B and urokinase. J Neurooncol 1999;44:283-9.
7.    Aalto S, Haarala C, Bruck A, Sipila H, Hamalainen H, Rinne JO. Mobile phone affects cerebral blood flow
      in humans. J Cereb Blood Flow Metab 2006;26:885-90.
8.    Ivanov AA, Grigor'ev Iu G, Mal'tsev VN, et al. [Autoimmune processes after long-term low-level exposure
      to electromagnetic fields (the results of an experiment). Part 3. The effect of the long-term non-thermal
      RF EMF exposure on complement-fixation antibodies against homologenous tissue]. Radiats Biol
      Radioecol 2010;50:17-21.
9.    Grigor'ev Iu G, Mikhailov VF, Ivanov AA, et al. [Autoimmune processes after long-term low-level
      exposure to electromagnetic fields (the results of an experiment). Part 4. Manifestation of oxidative
      intracellular stress-reaction after long-term non-thermal EMF exposure of rats]. Radiats Biol Radioecol
      2010;50:22-7.
10.   Lamech F. Self-reporting of symptom development from exposure to radiofrequency fields of wireless
      smart meters in victoria, australia: a case series. Altern Ther Health Med 2014;20:28-39.
11.   Halteman E. Wireless utility meter safety impacts survey: Final Results Summary. Sept 13
      2011;(http://emfsafetynetwork.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/09/Wireless-Utility-Meter-Safety-
      Impacts-Survey-Results-Final.pdf). 97.
12.   Alsanosi AA, Al-Momani MO, Hagr AA, Almomani FM, Shami IM, Al-Habeeb SF. The acute auditory
      effects of exposure for 60 minutes to mobile`s electromagnetic field. Saudi Med J 2013;34:142-6.
13.   Karaer I, Simsek G, Gul M, et al. Melatonin protects inner ear against radiation damage in rats.
      Laryngoscope 2015.
14.   Celiker H, Ozgur A, Tumkaya L, et al. Effects of exposure to 2100MHz GSM-like radiofrequency
      electromagnetic field on auditory system of rats. Braz Otorhinolaryngol 2016;S1808-8694:302221.
15.   Foster S. Health exemption for firefighters sends a message to the world. GALLERY;Posted on June 26,
      2017.
16.   Sobel E, Davanipour Z, Sulkava R, et al. Occupations with exposure to EMFs: a possible link for
      Alzheimer's disease. Amer J Epidemiol 1995;142:515-24.
17.     Stein Y. Environmental refugees. UNESCO 10th World Conference on ZBioethics, Medical Ethics and
        Health Law 2015;Jerusalem, Israel:Jan 6-8.
18.     Frompovich CJ. Environmental refugees: Electromagnetic hypersensitivity (EHS) sufferers.
        Naturalblazecom 2016;Jan 28.
19.     http://www.emfanalysis.com/emf-refugee/.
20.     ;http://articles.latimes.com/2010/feb/15/health/la-he-electromagnetic-syndrome1-2010feb15.
21.     http://stopsmartmetersorguk/former-nokia-chief-mobile-phones-wrecked-my-health/.
22.     ;http://www.huffingtonpost.ca/frank-clegg/post_5393_b_3745157.html.
23.     Clegg F. Electrohypersensitivity Is Real. The Huffington Post, Canada 2013;June 12, 2013.
24.     Belpomme D, Campagnac C, Irigaray P. Reliable disease biomarkers characterizing and identifying
        electrohypersensitivity and multiple chemical sensitivity as two etiopathogenic aspects of a unique
        pathological disorder. Rev Environ Health 2015;30:251-71.
25.     Heuser G, Heuser SA. Functional brain MRI in patients complaining of electrohypersensitivity after long
        term exposure to electromagnetic fields. . Rev Environ Health 2017;Jul 5.
26.     Golomb BA. Conflict of Interest in Medicine
http://thesciencenetwork.org/programs/beyond-belief-candles-in-the-dark/beatrice-golomb: Beyond Belief:
        Candles in the Dark, sponsored by The Science Network (tsntv.org), session entitled “This is Your Brain
        on Politics” Salk Institute. La Jolla, CA. Oct 5; 2008.
27.     Smith R. Conflicts of interest: how money clouds objectivity. J R Soc Med 2006;99:292-7.
28.     International Association of Fire Fighters Division of Occupational Health SaM. Position on the health
        effects from radio frequency/ microwave (RF/MW) radiation in fire department facilities from base
        stations for anttennas and towers for the conduction of cell phone transmissions. 2006.
29.     Gurler HS, Bilgici B, Akar AK, Tomak L, Bedir A. Increased DNA oxidation (8-OHdG) and protein oxidation
        (AOPP) by low level electromagnetic field (2.45 GHz) in rat brain and protective effect of garlic. Int J
        Radiat Biol 2014;90:892-6.
30.     Jajte J, Zmyslony M. [The role of melatonin in the molecular mechanism of weak, static and extremely
        low frequency (50 Hz) magnetic fields (ELF)]. Med Pr 2000;51:51-7.
31.     Hardell L, Sage C. Biological effects from electromagnetic field exposure and public exposure standards.
        Biomed Pharmacother 2008;62:104-9.
32.     Deshmukh PS, Nasare N, Megha K, et al. Cognitive impairment and neurogenotoxic effects in rats
        exposed to low-intensity microwave radiation. Int J Toxicol 2015;34:284-90.
33.     Avendano C, Mata A, Sanchez Sarmiento CA, Doncel GF. Use of laptop computers connected to internet
        through Wi-Fi decreases human sperm motility and increases sperm DNA fragmentation. Fertil Steril
        2012;97:39-45 e2.
34.     Barnes F, Greenenbaum B. Some Effects of Weak Magnetic Fields on Biological Systems: RF fields can
        change radical concentrations and cancer cell growth rates. IEEE Power Electronics Magazine 2016;3:60-
        8.
35.     Blank M, Goodman R. Comment: a biological guide for electromagnetic safety: the stress response.
        Bioelectromagnetics 2004;25:642-6; discussion 7-8.
36.   Burlaka A, Selyuk M, Gafurov M, Lukin S, Potaskalova V, Sidorik E. Changes in mitochondrial functioning
      with electromagnetic radiation of ultra high frequency as revealed by electron paramagnetic resonance
      methodsX. Int J Radiat Biol 2014;90:357-62.
37.   Derias EM, Stefanis P, Drakeley A, Gazvani R, Lewis-Jones DI. Growing concern over the safety of using
      mobile phones and male fertility {THERMAL + NONTHERMAL}. Arch Androl 2006;52:9-14.
38.   Diem E, Schwarz C, Adlkofer F, Jahn O, Rudiger H. Non-thermal DNA breakage by mobile-phone radiation
      (1800 MHz) in human fibroblasts and in transformed GFSH-R17 rat granulosa cells in vitro. Mutat Res
      2005;583:178-83.
39.   Ferreira AR, Knakievicz T, Pasquali MA, et al. Ultra high frequency-electromagnetic field irradiation
      during pregnancy leads to an increase in erythrocytes micronuclei incidence in rat offspring. Life Sci
      2006;80:43-50.
40.   Halgamuge MN. Pineal melatonin level disruption in humans due to electromagnetic fields and ICNIRP
      limits. Radiat Prot Dosimetry 2013;154:405-16.
41.   Mancinelli F, Caraglia M, Abbruzzese A, d'Ambrosio G, Massa R, Bismuto E. Non-thermal effects of
      electromagnetic fields at mobile phone frequency on the refolding of an intracellular protein:
      myoglobin. J Cell Biochem 2004;93:188-96.
42.   Lai H. Research on the neurological effects of nonionizing radiation at the University of Washington.
      Bioelectromagnetics 1992;13:513-26.
43.   Lerchl A, Kruger H, Niehaus M, Streckert JR, Bitz AK, Hansen V. Effects of mobile phone electromagnetic
      fields at nonthermal SAR values on melatonin and body weight of Djungarian hamsters (Phodopus
      sungorus) - BODY WT CHG. J Pineal Res 2008;44:267-72.
44.   Leszczynski D, Joenvaara S, Reivinen J, Kuokka R. Non-thermal activation of the hsp27/p38MAPK stress
      pathway by mobile phone radiation in human endothelial cells: molecular mechanism for cancer- and
      blood-brain barrier-related effects. Differentiation 2002;70:120-9.
45.   Lixia S, Yao K, Kaijun W, et al. Effects of 1.8 GHz radiofrequency field on DNA damage and expression of
      heat shock protein 70 in human lens epithelial cells. Mutat Res 2006;602:135-42.
46.   Sahin D, Ozgur E, Guler G, et al. The 2100MHz radiofrequency radiation of a 3G-mobile phone and the
      DNA oxidative damage in brain. J Chem Neuroanat 2016;75:94-8.
47.   Song JM, Milligan JR, Sutherland BM. Bistranded oxidized purine damage clusters: induced in DNA by
      long-wavelength ultraviolet (290-400 nm) radiation? Biochemistry 2002;41:8683-8.
48.   Yurekli AI, Ozkan M, Kalkan T, et al. GSM base station electromagnetic radiation and oxidative stress in
      rats. Electromagn Biol Med 2006;25:177-88.
49.   Tafforeau M, Verdus MC, Norris V, et al. Plant sensitivity to low intensity 105 GHz electromagnetic
      radiation. Bioelectromagnetics 2004;25:403-7.
50.   Ciejka E, Jakubowska E, Zelechowska P, Huk-Kolega H, Kowalczyk A, Goraca A. [Effect of extremely low
      frequency magnetic field on glutathione in rat muscles]. Med Pr 2014;65:343-9.
51.   Consales C, Merla C, Marino C, Benassi B. Electromagnetic fields, oxidative stress, and
      neurodegeneration. Int J Cell Biol 2012;2012:683897.
52.   Copeland ES. Production of free radicals in reduced glutathione and penicillamine by thermal hydrogen
      atoms and X-radiation. Int J Radiat Biol Relat Stud Phys Chem Med 1969;16:113-20.
53.   Cravotto G, Binello A, Di Carlo S, Orio L, Wu ZL, Ondruschka B. Oxidative degradation of chlorophenol
      derivatives promoted by microwaves or power ultrasound: a mechanism investigation. Environ Sci Pollut
      Res Int 2010;17:674-87.
54.   Crouzier D, Perrin A, Torres G, Dabouis V, Debouzy JC. Pulsed electromagnetic field at 9.71 GHz increase
      free radical production in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae). Pathol Biol (Paris) 2009;57:245-51.
55.   de Moraes Ramos FM, Schonlau F, Novaes PD, Manzi FR, Boscolo FN, de Almeida SM. Pycnogenol
      protects against Ionizing radiation as shown in the intestinal mucosa of rats exposed to X-rays.
      Phytother Res 2006;20:676-9.
56.   Devi PU, Ganasoundari A. Modulation of glutathione and antioxidant enzymes by Ocimum sanctum and
      its role in protection against radiation injury. Indian J Exp Biol 1999;37:262-8.
57.   Deshmukh PS, Banerjee BD, Abegaonkar MP, et al. Effect of low level microwave radiation exposure on
      cognitive function and oxidative stress in rats. Indian J Biochem Biophys 2013;50:114-9.
58.   Dimri M, Joshi J, Chakrabarti R, Sehgal N, Sureshbabu A, Kumar IP. Todralazine protects zebrafish from
      lethal effects of ionizing radiation: role of hematopoietic cell expansion. Zebrafish 2015;12:33-47.
59.   Dimri M, Joshi J, Shrivastava N, Ghosh S, Chakraborti R, Indracanti PK. Prilocaine hydrochloride protects
      zebrafish from lethal effects of ionizing radiation: role of hematopoietic cell expansion. Tokai J Exp Clin
      Med 2015;40:8-15.
60.   Durovic B, Spasic-Jokic V. Influence of occupational exposure to low-dose ionizing radiation on the
      plasma activity of superoxide dismutase and glutathione level. Vojnosanit Pregl 2008;65:613-8.
61.   El-Missiry MA, Fayed TA, El-Sawy MR, El-Sayed AA. Ameliorative effect of melatonin against gamma-
      irradiation-induced oxidative stress and tissue injury. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf 2007;66:278-86.
62.   Falone S, Mirabilio A, Carbone MC, et al. Chronic exposure to 50Hz magnetic fields causes a significant
      weakening of antioxidant defence systems in aged rat brain. Int J Biochem Cell Biol 2008;40:2762-70.
63.   Fitzgerald MP, Madsen JM, Coleman MC, et al. Transgenic biosynthesis of trypanothione protects
      Escherichia coli from radiation-induced toxicity. Radiat Res 2010;174:290-6.
64.   Giannopoulou E, Katsoris P, Parthymou A, Kardamakis D, Papadimitriou E. Amifostine protects blood
      vessels from the effects of ionizing radiation. Anticancer Res 2002;22:2821-6.
65.   Goraca A, Ciejka E, Piechota A. Effects of extremely low frequency magnetic field on the parameters of
      oxidative stress in heart. J Physiol Pharmacol 2010;61:333-8.
66.   Goswami S, Haldar C. UVB irradiation severely induces systemic tissue injury by augmenting oxidative
      load in a tropical rodent: efficacy of melatonin as an antioxidant. J Photochem Photobiol B 2014;141:84-
      92.
67.   Goswami S, Sharma S, Haldar C. The oxidative damages caused by ultraviolet radiation type C (UVC) to a
      tropical rodent Funambulus pennanti: role of melatonin. J Photochem Photobiol B 2013;125:19-25.
68.   Groen HJ, Meijer C, De Vries EG, Mulder NH. Red blood cell glutathione levels in lung cancer patients
      treated by radiation and continuously infused carboplatin. Anticancer Res 1996;16:1033-7.
69.   Guler G, Seyhan N, Aricioglu A. Effects of static and 50 Hz alternating electric fields on superoxide
      dismutase activity and TBARS levels in guinea pigs. Gen Physiol Biophys 2006;25:177-93.
70.   Guler G, Turkozer Z, Tomruk A, Seyhan N. The protective effects of N-acetyl-L-cysteine and
      epigallocatechin-3-gallate on electric field-induced hepatic oxidative stress. Int J Radiat Biol
      2008;84:669-80.
71.   Gultekin FA, Bakkal BH, Guven B, et al. Effects of ozone oxidative preconditioning on radiation-induced
      organ damage in rats. J Radiat Res 2013;54:36-44.
72.   Halgamuge MN. Critical time delay of the pineal melatonin rhythm in humans due to weak
      electromagnetic exposure. Indian J Biochem Biophys 2013;50:259-65.
73.   Irmak MK, Fadillioglu E, Gulec M, Erdogan H, Yagmurca M, Akyol O. Effects of electromagnetic radiation
      from a cellular telephone on the oxidant and antioxidant levels in rabbits. Cell Biochem Funct
      2002;20:279-83.
74.   Jagetia G, Baliga M, Venkatesh P. Ginger (Zingiber officinale Rosc.), a dietary supplement, protects mice
      against radiation-induced lethality: mechanism of action. Cancer Biother Radiopharm 2004;19:422-35.
75.   Jagetia GC, Malagi KJ, Baliga MS, Venkatesh P, Veruva RR. Triphala, an ayurvedic rasayana drug, protects
      mice against radiation-induced lethality by free-radical scavenging. J Altern Complement Med
      2004;10:971-8.
76.   Jagetia GC, Venkatesha VA, Reddy TK. Naringin, a citrus flavonone, protects against radiation-induced
      chromosome damage in mouse bone marrow. Mutagenesis 2003;18:337-43.
77.   Jurkiewicz BA, Bissett DL, Buettner GR. Effect of topically applied tocopherol on ultraviolet radiation-
      mediated free radical damage in skin. J Invest Dermatol 1995;104:484-8.
78.   Kalns J, Ryan KL, Mason PA, Bruno JG, Gooden R, Kiel JL. Oxidative stress precedes circulatory failure
      induced by 35-GHz microwave heating. Shock 2000;13:52-9.
79.   Karslioglu I, Ertekin MV, Taysi S, et al. Radioprotective effects of melatonin on radiation-induced
      cataract. J Radiat Res (Tokyo) 2005;46:277-82.
80.   Kim KC, Piao MJ, Cho SJ, Lee NH, Hyun JW. Phloroglucinol protects human keratinocytes from ultraviolet
      B radiation by attenuating oxidative stress. Photodermatol Photoimmunol Photomed 2012;28:322-31.
81.   Klebanoff SJ. The effect of x-radiation on the glutathione metabolism of intact erythrocytes in vitro. J
      Gen Physiol 1958;41:725-36.
82.   Koc M, Taysi S, Emin Buyukokuroglu M, Bakan N. The effect of melatonin against oxidative damage
      during total-body irradiation in rats. Radiat Res 2003;160:251-5.
83.   Koiram PR, Veerapur VP, Kunwar A, et al. Effect of curcumin and curcumin copper complex (1:1) on
      radiation-induced changes of anti-oxidant enzymes levels in the livers of Swiss albino mice. J Radiat Res
      2007;48:241-5.
84.   Kowalski S. Changes of antioxidant activity and formation of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural in honey during
      thermal and microwave processing. Food Chem 2013;141:1378-82.
85.   Koylu H, Mollaoglu H, Ozguner F, Naziroglu M, Delibas N. Melatonin modulates 900 Mhz microwave-
      induced lipid peroxidation changes in rat brain. Toxicol Ind Health 2006;22:211-6.
86.   Koyu A, Ozguner F, Yilmaz H, Uz E, Cesur G, Ozcelik N. The protective effect of caffeic acid phenethyl
      ester (CAPE) on oxidative stress in rat liver exposed to the 900 MHz electromagnetic field. Toxicol Ind
      Health 2009;25:429-34.
87.   Lai H, Singh NP. Melatonin and a spin-trap compound block radiofrequency electromagnetic radiation-
      induced DNA strand breaks in rat brain cells. Bioelectromagnetics 1997;18:446-54.
88.   Lai H, Singh NP. Melatonin and N-tert-butyl-alpha-phenylnitrone block 60-Hz magnetic field-induced
      DNA single and double strand breaks in rat brain cells. J Pineal Res 1997;22:152-62.
89.    Lai H, Singh NP. Magnetic-field-induced DNA strand breaks in brain cells of the rat. Environ Health
       Perspect 2004;112:687-94.
90.    Lantow M, Schuderer J, Hartwig C, Simko M. Free radical release and HSP70 expression in two human
       immune-relevant cell lines after exposure to 1800 MHz radiofrequency radiation. Radiat Res
       2006;165:88-94.
91.    Lee BC, Johng HM, Lim JK, et al. Effects of extremely low frequency magnetic field on the antioxidant
       defense system in mouse brain: a chemiluminescence study. J Photochem Photobiol B 2004;73:43-8.
92.    Lee JH, Park JW. The effect of alpha-phenyl-N-t-butylnitrone on ionizing radiation-induced apoptosis in
       U937 cells. Free Radic Res 2005;39:1325-33.
93.    Li HT, Schuler C, Leggett RE, Levin RM. Differential effects of coenzyme Q10 and alpha-lipoic acid on two
       models of in vitro oxidative damage to the rabbit urinary bladder. Int Urol Nephrol 2011;43:91-7.
94.    Li P, Zhao QL, Wu LH, et al. Isofraxidin, a potent reactive oxygen species (ROS) scavenger, protects
       human leukemia cells from radiation-induced apoptosis via ROS/mitochondria pathway in p53-
       independent manner. Apoptosis 2014;19:1043-53.
95.    Lin SY, Chang HP. Induction of superoxide dismutase and catalase activity in different rat tissues and
       protection from UVB irradiation after topical application of Ginkgo biloba extracts. Methods Find Exp
       Clin Pharmacol 1997;19:367-71.
96.    Lourencini da Silva R, Albano F, Lopes dos Santos LR, Tavares AD, Jr., Felzenszwalb I. The effect of
       electromagnetic field exposure on the formation of DNA lesions. Redox Rep 2000;5:299-301.
97.    Low WK, Sun L, Tan MG, Chua AW, Wang DY. L-N-Acetylcysteine protects against radiation-induced
       apoptosis in a cochlear cell line. Acta Otolaryngol 2008;128:440-5.
98.    Lulli M, Witort E, Papucci L, et al. Coenzyme Q10 protects retinal cells from apoptosis induced by
       radiation in vitro and in vivo. J Radiat Res 2012;53:695-703.
99.    Maaroufi K, Save E, Poucet B, Sakly M, Abdelmelek H, Had-Aissouni L. Oxidative stress and prevention of
       the adaptive response to chronic iron overload in the brain of young adult rats exposed to a 150
       kilohertz electromagnetic field. Neuroscience 2011;186:39-47.
100.   Mailankot M, Kunnath AP, Jayalekshmi H, Koduru B, Valsalan R. Radio frequency electromagnetic
       radiation (RF-EMR) from GSM (0.9/1.8GHz) mobile phones induces oxidative stress and reduces sperm
       motility in rats. Clinics (Sao Paulo) 2009;64:561-5.
101.   Manda K, Anzai K, Kumari S, Bhatia AL. Melatonin attenuates radiation-induced learning deficit and
       brain oxidative stress in mice. Acta Neurobiol Exp (Wars) 2007;67:63-70.
102.   Manda K, Bhatia AL. Pre-administration of beta-carotene protects tissue glutathione and lipid
       peroxidation status following exposure to gamma radiation. J Environ Biol 2003;24:369-72.
103.   Manda K, Reiter RJ. Melatonin maintains adult hippocampal neurogenesis and cognitive functions after
       irradiation. Prog Neurobiol 2010;90:60-8.
104.   Martinez-Samano J, Torres-Duran PV, Juarez-Oropeza MA, Elias-Vinas D, Verdugo-Diaz L. Effects of acute
       electromagnetic field exposure and movement restraint on antioxidant system in liver, heart, kidney and
       plasma of Wistar rats: a preliminary report. Int J Radiat Biol 2010;86:1088-94.
105.   Mathew ST, Bergstrom P, Hammarsten O. Repeated Nrf2 stimulation using sulforaphane protects
       fibroblasts from ionizing radiation. Toxicol Appl Pharmacol 2014;276:188-94.
106.   McArdle AH. Protection from radiation injury by elemental diet: does added glutamine change the
       effect? Gut 1994;35:S60-4.
107.   Meena R, Kumari K, Kumar J, Rajamani P, Verma HN, Kesari KK. Therapeutic approaches of melatonin in
       microwave radiations-induced oxidative stress-mediated toxicity on male fertility pattern of Wistar rats.
       Electromagn Biol Med 2014;33:81-91.
108.   Megha K, Deshmukh PS, Banerjee BD, Tripathi AK, Abegaonkar MP. Microwave radiation induced
       oxidative stress, cognitive impairment and inflammation in brain of Fischer rats. Indian J Exp Biol
       2012;50:889-96.
109.   Mishra S, Reddy DS, Jamwal VS, et al. Semiquinone derivative isolated from Bacillus sp. INM-1 protects
       cellular antioxidant enzymes from gamma-radiation-induced renal toxicity. Mol Cell Biochem
       2013;379:19-27.
110.   Mitchell JB, Russo A. The role of glutathione in radiation and drug induced cytotoxicity. Br J Cancer Suppl
       1987;8:96-104.
111.   Molla M, Gironella M, Salas A, et al. Protective effect of superoxide dismutase in radiation-induced
       intestinal inflammation. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2005;61:1159-66.
112.   Morabito C, Rovetta F, Bizzarri M, Mazzoleni G, Fano G, Mariggio MA. Modulation of redox status and
       calcium handling by extremely low frequency electromagnetic fields in C2C12 muscle cells: A real-time,
       single-cell approach. Free Radic Biol Med 2010;48:579-89.
113.   Moustafa YM, Moustafa RM, Belacy A, Abou-El-Ela SH, Ali FM. Effects of acute exposure to the
       radiofrequency fields of cellular phones on plasma lipid peroxide and antioxidase activities in human
       erythrocytes. J Pharm Biomed Anal 2001;26:605-8.
114.   Musaev AV, Ismailova LF, Shabanova AB, Magerramov AA, Iusifov E, Gadzhiev AM. [Pro- and antioxidant
       effect of electromagnetic fields of extremely high frequency (460 MHz) on brain tissues in experiment].
       Vopr Kurortol Fizioter Lech Fiz Kult 2004:19-23.
115.   Mukundan H, Bahadur AK, Kumar A, et al. Glutathione level and its relation to radiation therapy in
       patients with cancer of uterine cervix. Indian J Exp Biol 1999;37:859-64.
116.   Navarro J, Obrador E, Pellicer JA, Aseni M, Vina J, Estrela JM. Blood glutathione as an index of radiation-
       induced oxidative stress in mice and humans. Free Radic Biol Med 1997;22:1203-9.
117.   Okano H. Effects of static magnetic fields in biology: role of free radicals. Front Biosci 2008;13:6106-25.
118.   Oktem F, Ozguner F, Mollaoglu H, Koyu A, Uz E. Oxidative damage in the kidney induced by 900-MHz-
       emitted mobile phone: protection by melatonin. Arch Med Res 2005;36:350-5.
119.   Oral B, Guney M, Ozguner F, et al. Endometrial apoptosis induced by a 900-MHz mobile phone:
       preventive effects of vitamins E and C. Adv Ther 2006;23:957-73.
120.   Ozguner F, Altinbas A, Ozaydin M, et al. Mobile phone-induced myocardial oxidative stress: protection
       by a novel antioxidant agent caffeic acid phenethyl ester. Toxicol Ind Health 2005;21:223-30.
121.   Ozguner F, Bardak Y, Comlekci S. Protective effects of melatonin and caffeic acid phenethyl ester against
       retinal oxidative stress in long-term use of mobile phone: a comparative study. Mol Cell Biochem
       2006;282:83-8.
122.   Ozguner F, Oktem F, Armagan A, et al. Comparative analysis of the protective effects of melatonin and
       caffeic acid phenethyl ester (CAPE) on mobile phone-induced renal impairment in rat. Mol Cell Biochem
       2005;276:31-7.
123.   Ozguner F, Oktem F, Ayata A, Koyu A, Yilmaz HR. A novel antioxidant agent caffeic acid phenethyl ester
       prevents long-term mobile phone exposure-induced renal impairment in rat. Prognostic value of
       malondialdehyde, N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase and nitric oxide determination. Mol Cell Biochem
       2005;277:73-80.
124.   Ozyurt H, Cevik O, Ozgen Z, et al. Quercetin protects radiation-induced DNA damage and apoptosis in
       kidney and bladder tissues of rats. Free Radic Res 2014;48:1247-55.
125.   Pall ML. Scientific evidence contradicts findings and assumptions of Canadian Safety Panel 6:
       microwaves act through voltage-gated calcium channel activation to induce biological impacts at non-
       thermal levels, supporting a paradigm shift for microwave/lower frequency electromagnetic field action.
       Rev Environ Health 2015;30:99-116.
126.   Patruno A, Tabrez S, Pesce M, Shakil S, Kamal MA, Reale M. Effects of extremely low frequency
       electromagnetic field (ELF-EMF) on catalase, cytochrome P450 and nitric oxide synthase in erythro-
       leukemic cells. Life Sci 2015;121:117-23.
127.   Patwardhan RS, Sharma D, Checker R, Thoh M, Sandur SK. Spatio-temporal changes in glutathione and
       thioredoxin redox couples during ionizing radiation-induced oxidative stress regulate tumor radio-
       resistance. Free Radic Res 2015;49:1218-32.
128.   Paul P, Bansal P, Nayak PG, Pannakal ST, Priyadarsini KI, Unnikrishnan MK. Polyphenolic fraction of Pilea
       microphylla (L.) protects Chinese hamster lung fibroblasts against gamma-radiation-induced cytotoxicity
       and genotoxicity. Environ Toxicol Pharmacol 2012;33:107-19.
129.   Pei H, Chen W, Hu W, et al. GANRA-5 protects both cultured cells and mice from various radiation types
       by functioning as a free radical scavenger. Free Radic Res 2014;48:670-8.
130.   Piao MJ, Hyun YJ, Oh TH, et al. Chondracanthus tenellus (Harvey) hommersand extract protects the
       human keratinocyte cell line by blocking free radicals and UVB radiation-induced cell damage. In Vitro
       Cell Dev Biol Anim 2012;48:666-74.
131.   Pillai S, Oresajo C, Hayward J. Ultraviolet radiation and skin aging: roles of reactive oxygen species,
       inflammation and protease activation, and strategies for prevention of inflammation-induced matrix
       degradation - a review. Int J Cosmet Sci 2005;27:17-34.
132.   Rabbani ZN, Salahuddin FK, Yarmolenko P, et al. Low molecular weight catalytic metalloporphyrin
       antioxidant AEOL 10150 protects lungs from fractionated radiation. Free Radic Res 2007;41:1273-82.
133.   Regoli F, Gorbi S, Machella N, et al. Pro-oxidant effects of extremely low frequency electromagnetic
       fields in the land snail Helix aspersa. Free Radic Biol Med 2005;39:1620-8.
134.   Reliene R, Pollard JM, Sobol Z, Trouiller B, Gatti RA, Schiestl RH. N-acetyl cysteine protects against
       ionizing radiation-induced DNA damage but not against cell killing in yeast and mammals. Mutat Res
       2009;665:37-43.
135.   Roginskaya M, Bernhard WA, Razskazovskiy Y. Protection of DNA against direct radiation damage by
       complex formation with positively charged polypeptides. Radiat Res 2006;166:9-18.
136.   Saenko Y, Cieslar-Pobuda A, Skonieczna M, Rzeszowska-Wolny J. Changes of reactive oxygen and
       nitrogen species and mitochondrial functioning in human K562 and HL60 cells exposed to ionizing
       radiation. Radiat Res 2013;180:360-6.
137.   Sainz RM, Reiter RJ, Tan DX, et al. Critical role of glutathione in melatonin enhancement of tumor
       necrosis factor and ionizing radiation-induced apoptosis in prostate cancer cells in vitro. J Pineal Res
       2008;45:258-70.
138.   Sener G, Jahovic N, Tosun O, Atasoy BM, Yegen BC. Melatonin ameliorates ionizing radiation-induced
       oxidative organ damage in rats. Life Sci 2003;74:563-72.
139.   Sener G, Kabasakal L, Atasoy BM, et al. Ginkgo biloba extract protects against ionizing radiation-induced
       oxidative organ damage in rats. Pharmacol Res 2006;53:241-52.
140.   Seyhan N, Guler G. Review of in vivo static and ELF electric fields studies performed at Gazi Biophysics
       Department. Electromagn Biol Med 2006;25:307-23.
141.   Shafiee H, Mohammadi H, Rezayat SM, et al. Prevention of malathion-induced depletion of cardiac cells
       mitochondrial energy and free radical damage by a magnetic magnesium-carrying nanoparticle. Toxicol
       Mech Methods 2010;20:538-43.
142.   Sharma R, Tiku AB. Emodin, an anthraquinone derivative, protects against gamma radiation-induced
       toxicity by inhibiting DNA damage and oxidative stress. Int J Radiat Biol 2014;90:275-83.
143.   Shi S, Wang G, Wang Y, Zhang L, Zhang L. Protective effect of nitric oxide against oxidative stress under
       ultraviolet-B radiation. Nitric Oxide 2005;13:1-9.
144.   Shirazi A, Mihandoost E, Mohseni M, Ghazi-Khansari M, Rabie Mahdavi S. Radio-protective effects of
       melatonin against irradiation-induced oxidative damage in rat peripheral blood. Phys Med 2013;29:65-
       74.
145.   Simko M. Cell type specific redox status is responsible for diverse electromagnetic field effects. Curr
       Med Chem 2007;14:1141-52.
146.   Simko M, Droste S, Kriehuber R, Weiss DG. Stimulation of phagocytosis and free radical production in
       murine macrophages by 50 Hz electromagnetic fields. Eur J Cell Biol 2001;80:562-6.
147.   Sirerol JA, Feddi F, Mena S, et al. Topical treatment with pterostilbene, a natural phytoalexin, effectively
       protects hairless mice against UVB radiation-induced skin damage and carcinogenesis. Free Radic Biol
       Med 2015;85:1-11.
148.   Smith-Pearson PS, Kooshki M, Spitz DR, Poole LB, Zhao W, Robbins ME. Decreasing peroxiredoxin II
       expression decreases glutathione, alters cell cycle distribution, and sensitizes glioma cells to ionizing
       radiation and H(2)O(2). Free Radic Biol Med 2008;45:1178-89.
149.   Song L, Wang D, Cui X, Hu W. The protective action of taurine and L-arginine in radiation pulmonary
       fibrosis. J Environ Pathol Toxicol Oncol 1998;17:151-7.
150.   Stevens RG. Electromagnetic fields and free radicals. Environ Health Perspect 2004;112:A726; author
       reply A.
151.   Taysi S, Koc M, Buyukokuroglu ME, Altinkaynak K, Sahin YN. Melatonin reduces lipid peroxidation and
       nitric oxide during irradiation-induced oxidative injury in the rat liver. J Pineal Res 2003;34:173-7.
152.   Thotala D, Chetyrkin S, Hudson B, Hallahan D, Voziyan P, Yazlovitskaya E. Pyridoxamine protects
       intestinal epithelium from ionizing radiation-induced apoptosis. Free Radic Biol Med 2009;47:779-85.
153.   Tofani S, Barone D, Berardelli M, et al. Static and ELF magnetic fields enhance the in vivo anti-tumor
       efficacy of cis-platin against lewis lung carcinoma, but not of cyclophosphamide against B16 melanotic
       melanoma. Pharmacol Res 2003;48:83-90.
154.   Tulard A, Hoffschir F, de Boisferon FH, Luccioni C, Bravard A. Persistent oxidative stress after ionizing
       radiation is involved in inherited radiosensitivity. Free Radic Biol Med 2003;35:68-77.
155.   Tunez I, Drucker-Colin R, Jimena I, et al. Transcranial magnetic stimulation attenuates cell loss and
       oxidative damage in the striatum induced in the 3-nitropropionic model of Huntington's disease. J
       Neurochem 2006;97:619-30.
156.   von Deutsch AW, Mitchell CD, Williams CE, et al. Polyamines protect against radiation-induced oxidative
       stress. Gravit Space Biol Bull 2005;18:109-10.
157.   Vujaskovic Z, Batinic-Haberle I, Rabbani ZN, et al. A small molecular weight catalytic metalloporphyrin
       antioxidant with superoxide dismutase (SOD) mimetic properties protects lungs from radiation-induced
       injury. Free Radic Biol Med 2002;33:857-63.
158.   Wolf FI, Torsello A, Tedesco B, et al. 50-Hz extremely low frequency electromagnetic fields enhance cell
       proliferation and DNA damage: possible involvement of a redox mechanism. Biochim Biophys Acta
       2005;1743:120-9.
159.   Xu Y, Parmar K, Du F, Price BD, Sun Y. The radioprotective agent WR1065 protects cells from radiation
       damage by regulating the activity of the Tip60 acetyltransferase. Int J Biochem Mol Biol 2011;2:295-302.
160.   Yakymenko I, Tsybulin O, Sidorik E, Henshel D, Kyrylenko O, Kyrylenko S. Oxidative mechanisms of
       biological activity of low-intensity radiofrequency radiation. Electromagn Biol Med 2015;35:186-202.
161.   Yang Y, Li B, Liu C, et al. Hydrogen-rich saline protects immunocytes from radiation-induced apoptosis.
       Med Sci Monit 2012;18:BR144-8.
162.   Yokoyama H, Sato T, Ogata T, Ohya-Nishiguchi H, Kamada H. In vivo longitudinally detected ESR
       measurements at microwave regions of 300, 700, and 900 MHz in rats treated with a nitroxide radical. J
       Magn Reson 1997;129:201-6.
163.   Yokus B, Cakir DU, Akdag MZ, Sert C, Mete N. Oxidative DNA damage in rats exposed to extremely low
       frequency electro magnetic fields. Free Radic Res 2005;39:317-23.
164.   Yoshida T, Goto S, Kawakatsu M, Urata Y, Li TS. Mitochondrial dysfunction, a probable cause of
       persistent oxidative stress after exposure to ionizing radiation. Free Radic Res 2012;46:147-53.
165.   Yoshikawa T, Tanigawa M, Tanigawa T, Imai A, Hongo H, Kondo M. Enhancement of nitric oxide
       generation by low frequency electromagnetic field. Pathophysiology 2000;7:131-5.
166.   Zhang R, Kang KA, Piao MJ, et al. Eckol protects V79-4 lung fibroblast cells against gamma-ray radiation-
       induced apoptosis via the scavenging of reactive oxygen species and inhibiting of the c-Jun NH(2)-
       terminal kinase pathway. Eur J Pharmacol 2008;591:114-23.
167.   Zhou BR, Yin HB, Xu Y, et al. Baicalin protects human skin fibroblasts from ultraviolet A radiation-induced
       oxidative damage and apoptosis. Free Radic Res 2012;46:1458-71.
168.   Zhu W, Xu J, Ge Y, et al. Epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG) protects skin cells from ionizing radiation via
       heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) overexpression. J Radiat Res 2014;55:1056-65.
169.   Zmyslony M, Palus J, Dziubaltowska E, et al. Effects of in vitro exposure to power frequency magnetic
       fields on UV-induced DNA damage of rat lymphocytes. Bioelectromagnetics 2004;25:560-2.
170.   Zmyslony M, Politanski P, Rajkowska E, Szymczak W, Jajte J. Acute exposure to 930 MHz CW
       electromagnetic radiation in vitro affects reactive oxygen species level in rat lymphocytes treated by
       iron ions. Bioelectromagnetics 2004;25:324-8.
171.   Zmyslony M, Rajkowska E, Mamrot P, Politanski P, Jajte J. The effect of weak 50 Hz magnetic fields on
       the number of free oxygen radicals in rat lymphocytes in vitro. Bioelectromagnetics 2004;25:607-12.
172.    Petty RK, Harding AE, Morgan-Hughes JA. The clinical features of mitochondrial myopathy. Brain
        1986;109 ( Pt 5):915-38.
173.    Frantseva MV, Velazquez JL, Hwang PA, Carlen PL. Free radical production correlates with cell death in
        an in vitro model of epilepsy. Eur J Neurosci 2000;12:1431-9.
174.    DiMauro S, Andreu AL, De Vivo DC. Mitochondrial disorders. J Child Neurol 2002;17 Suppl 3:3S35-45;
        discussion 3S6-7.
175.    Marin-Garcia J, Goldenthal MJ, Filiano JJ. Cardiomyopathy associated with neurologic disorders and
        mitochondrial phenotype. J Child Neurol 2002;17:759-65.
176.    Kouchaki E, Motaghedifard M, Banafshe HR. Effect of mobile phne radiation on pentylenetetrazole-
        induced seizure threshold in mice. Iran J Basic Med Sci 2016;19:800-3.
177.    Madmani ME, Yusuf Solaiman A, Tamr Agha K, et al. Coenzyme Q10 for heart failure. Cochrane Database
        Syst Rev 2014;6:CD008684.
178.    Taub PR, Ramirez-Sanchez I, Ciaraldi TP, et al. Alterations in skeletal muscle indicators of mitochondrial
        structure and biogenesis in patients with type 2 diabetes and heart failure: effects of epicatechin rich
        cocoa. Clin Transl Sci 2012;5:43-7.
179.    Indik JH, Goldman S, Gaballa MA. Oxidative stress contributes to vascular endothelial dysfunction in
        heart failure. Am J Physiol Heart Circ Physiol 2001;281:H1767-70.
180.    Sharma R, Davidoff MN. Oxidative stress and endothelial dysfunction in heart failure. Congest Heart Fail
        2002;8:165-72.
181.    Wolfram R, Oguogho A, Palumbo B, Sinzinger H. Enhanced oxidative stress in coronary heart disease and
        chronic heart failure as indicated by an increased 8-epi-PGF(2alpha). Eur J Heart Fail 2005;7:167-72.
182.    White M, Ducharme A, Ibrahim R, et al. Increased systemic inflammation and oxidative stress in patients
        with worsening congestive heart failure: improvement after short-term inotropic support. Clin Sci (Lond)
        2006.
183.    Kang D, Hamasaki N. Alterations of mitochondrial DNA in common diseases and disease states: aging,
        neurodegeneration, heart failure, diabetes, and cancer. Curr Med Chem 2005;12:429-41.
184.    Kerimoglu G, Mercantepe T, Erol, H.S.
Turgut, A, Kaya H, Colakoglu S, Odaci E. Effects of long term exposure to 900 megahertz electromagnetic field on
        heart morphology and biochemistry of male adolescent rats. Biotech Histochem 2016;Aug 11: 1-10
        {Epub ahead of print}.
185.    Finsterer J. Cognitive decline as a manifestation of mitochondrial disorders (mitochondrial dementia). J
        Neurol Sci 2008;272:20-33.
186.    Reiter RJ, Tan DX, Pappolla MA. Melatonin relieves the neural oxidative burden that contributes to
        dementias. Ann N Y Acad Sci 2004;1035:179-96.
187.    Popescu BO, Toescu EC, Popescu LM, et al. Blood-brain barrier alterations in ageing and dementia. J
        Neurol Sci 2009;283:99-106.
188.    Pappolla MA, Chyan YJ, Poeggeler B, et al. Alzheimer beta protein mediated oxidative damage of
        mitochondrial DNA: prevention by melatonin. J Pineal Res 1999;27:226-9.
189.    Matsubara E, Bryant-Thomas T, Pacheco Quinto J, et al. Melatonin increases survival and inhibits
        oxidative and amyloid pathology in a transgenic model of Alzheimer's disease. J Neurochem
        2003;85:1101-8.
190.   Feng Z, Qin C, Chang Y, Zhang JT. Early melatonin supplementation alleviates oxidative stress in a
       transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease. Free Radic Biol Med 2006;40:101-9.
191.   Nittby H, Grafstrom G, Tian DP, et al. Cognitive impairment in rats after long-term exposure to GSM-900
       mobile phone radiation. Bioelectromagnetics 2007.
192.   Kim JY, Kim HJ, Kwon KN, Park MJ. Effects of radiofrequency field exposure on glutamate-induced
       oxidative stress in mouse hippocampal HT22 cells. Int J Radiat Biol 2016;Sept 20:1-22 {Epub ahead of
       print}.
193.   Mugunthan N, Shanmugasamy K, Anbalagan J, Rajanarayanan S, Meenachi S. Effects of long term
       exposure of 9001800 MHz radiation emitted from 2G mobile phone on mice hippocampus - A
       histomorphometric study. J Clin Diagn Res 2016;10:AF01-6.
194.   Killin LOJ, Starr JM, Shiue IJ, Russ TC. Environmental risk factors for demenita: a systematic review. BMC
       Geriatrics 2016;12 Oct:DOI: 10.1186/s12877-016-0342-y.
195.   Sonmez OF, Odaci E, Bas O, Kaplan S. Purkinje cell number decreases in the adult female rat cerebellum
       following exposure to 900 MHz electromagnetic field. Brain Res 2010;1356:95-101.
196.   Herbert MR, Sage C. Autism and EMF? Plausibility of a pathophysiological link – Part I. Pathophysiology
       2013;20:191-209.
197.   Zueva NA, Kovalenko AN, Gerasimenko TI, Man'kovskii BN, Korpachova TI, Efimov AS. [Analysis of
       irradiation dose, body mass index and insulin blood concentration in personnel cleaning up after the
       Chernobyl nuclear plant accident]. Lik Sprava 2001:26-8.
198.   Grigor'ev Iu G, Grigor'ev OA, Ivanov AA, et al. [Autoimmune processes after long-term low-level
       exposure to electromagnetic fields (the results of an experiment). Part 1. Mobile communications and
       changes in electromagnetic conditions for the population. Needs for additional substantiation of the
       existing hygienic standards]. Radiats Biol Radioecol 2010;50:6-11.
199.   Grigor'ev Iu G, Grigor'ev OA, Merkulov AV, Shafirkin AV, Vorob'ev AA. [Autoimmune processes after
       long-term low-level exposure to electromagnetic fields (the results of an experiment). Part 2. General
       scheme and conditions of the experiment. Development of RF exposure conditions complying with
       experimental tasks. Animal's status during the long-term exposure]. Radiats Biol Radioecol 2010;50:12-
       6.
200.   Grigor'ev Iu G, Shafirkin AV, Nosocskii AM. [New data for proving the presence of significant effects of
       electromagnetic exposure (to autoimmune changes in rats)]. Radiats Biol Radioecol 2011;51:721-30.
201.   Brainard GC, Kavet R, Kheifets LI. The relationship between electromagnetic field and light exposures to
       melatonin and breast cancer risk: a review of the relevant literature. J Pineal Res 1999;26:65-100.
202.   Milham S. A cluster of male breast cancer in office workers. Am J Ind Med 2004;46:86-7.
203.   Milham S, Ossiander E. Electric typewriter exposure and increased female breast cancer mortality in
       typists. Med Hypotheses 2007;68:450-1.
204.   Naziroglu M, Tokat S, Demirci S. Role of melatonin on electromagnetic radiation-induced oxidative stress
       and Ca2+ signaling molecular pathways in breast cancer. J Recept Signal Transduct Res 2012;32:290-7.
205.   Zhao G, Lin X, Zhou M, Zhao J. Relationship between exposure to extremely low-frequency
       electromagnetic fields and breast cancer risk: a meta-analysis. Eur J Gynaecol Oncol 2014;35:264-9.
206.   Coureau G, Bouvier G, Lebailly P, et al. Mobile phone use and brain tumours in the CERENAT case-
       control study. Occup Environ Med;71:514-22.
207.   Carlberg M, Hardell L. Decreased survival of glioma patients with astrocytoma grade IV (glioblastoma
       multiforme) associated with long-term use of mobile and cordless phones. Int J Environ Res Public
       Health 2014;11:10790-805.
208.   Carlberg M, Hardell L. Evaluation of Mobile Phone and Cordless Phone Use and Glioma Risk Using the
       Bradford Hill Viewpoints from 1965 on Association or Causation. Biomed Res Int 2017;2017:9218486.
209.   Carlberg M, Koppel T, Ahonen M, Hardell L. Case-control study on occupational exposure to extremely
       low-frequency electromagnetic fields and glioma risk. Am J Ind Med 2017;April 10 (epub ahead of print).
210.   Carlbert M, Hardell L. Evaluation of mobile phone and cordless phone use and glioma risk using the
       Bradford Hill viewpoints from 1965 on. Association or causation? Biomed Res Int 2017;Epub Mar
       16:https://www.hindawi.com/journals/bmri/2017/9218486/
211.   Hardell L, Carlberg M, Hansson Mild K. Use of mobile phones and cordless phones is associated with
       increased risk for glioma and acoustic neuroma. Pathophysiology 2013;20:85-110.
212.   Hardell L, Carlberg M, Soderqvist F, Mild KH. Pooled analysis of case-control studies on acoustic
       neuroma diagnosed 1997-2003 and 2007-2009 and use of mobile and cordless phones. Int J Oncol
       2013;43:1036-44.
213.   Hardell L, Carlberg M. Use of mobile and cordless phones and survival of patients with glioma.
       Neuroepidemiology 2013;40:101-8.
214.   Hardell L, Carlberg M. Using the Hill viewpoints from 1965 for evaluating strengths of evidence of the
       risk for brain tumors associated with use of mobile and cordless phones. Rev Environ Health 2013;28:97-
       106.
215.   Hardell L, Carlberg M, Hansson Mild K. Pooled analysis of case-control studies on malignant brain
       tumours and the use of mobile and cordless phones including living and deceased subjects. Int J Oncol
       2011;38:1465-74.
216.   Hardell L, Carlberg M, Soderqvist F, Mild KH. Case-control study of the association between malignant
       brain tumours diagnosed between 2007 and 2009 and mobile and cordless phone use. Int J Oncol
       2013;43:1833-45.
217.   Hardell L, Carlberg M. Mobile phone and cordless phone use and the risk for glioma - Analysis of pooled
       case-control studies in Sweden, 1997-2003 and 2007-2009. Pathophysiology 2015;22:1-13.
218.   Lerchl A, Kruger H, Niehaus M, Streckert JR, Bitz AK, Hansen V. Effects of mobile phone electromagnetic
       fields at nonthermal SAR values on melatonin and body weight of Djungarian hamsters (Phodopus
       sungorus). J Pineal Res 2008;44:267-72.
219.   Lerchl A, Klose M, Grote K, et al. Tumor promotion by exposure to radiofrequency electromagnetic fields
       below exposure limits for humans. Biochem Biophys Res Commun 2015;459:585-90.
220.   Adams JA, Galloway TS, Mondal D, Esteves SC, Mathews F. Effect of mobile telephones on sperm quality:
       a systematic review and meta-analysis. Environ Int 2014;70:106-12.
221.   Houston BJ, Nixon B, King BV, De Iuliis GN, Aitken RJ. The effects of radiofrequency electromagnetic
       radiation on sperm function. Reproduction 2016;152:R263-R76.
222.   Atasoy HI, Gunal MY, Atasoy P, Elgun S, Bugdayci G. Immunohistopathologic demonstration of
       deleterious effects on growing rat testes of radiofrequency waves emitted from conventional Wi-Fi
       devices. J Pediatr Urol;9:223-9.
223.   Abeleva EA. [Changes of the Nature of Radiation-Induced Mutation in Spermatids of Drosophila under
       the Influence of Arginine]. Radiobiologiia 1964;4:426-31.
224.   Hong R, Zhang Y, Liu Y, Weng EQ. [Effects of extremely low frequency electromagnetic fields on DNA of
       testicular cells and sperm chromatin structure in mice]. Zhonghua Lao Dong Wei Sheng Zhi Ye Bing Za Zhi
       2005;23:414-7.
225.   Ugras MY, Kurus M, Ates B, Soylemez H, Otlu A, Yilmaz I. Prunus armeniaca L (apricot) protects rat testes
       from detrimental effects of low-dose x-rays. Nutr Res 2010;30:200-8.
226.   Den Boer PJ, van Loon AA, Mackenbach P, van der Schans GP, Grootegoed JA. Effect of glutathione
       depletion on the cytotoxicity of xenobiotics and induction of single-strand DNA breaks by ionizing
       radiation in isolated hamster round spermatids. Journal of reproduction and fertility 1990;88:259-69.
227.   Liu C, Duan W, Xu S, et al. Exposure to 1800 MHz radiofrequency electromagnetic radiation induces
       oxidative DNA base damage in a mouse spermatocyte-derived cell line. Toxicol Lett 2013;218:2-9.
228.   Yan JG, Agresti M, Bruce T, Yan YH, Granlund A, Matloub HS. Effects of cellular phone emissions on
       sperm motility in rats. Fertil Steril 2007;88:957-64.
229.   Aitken RJ, Bennetts LE, Sawyer D, Wiklendt AM, King BV. Impact of radio frequency electromagnetic
       radiation on DNA integrity in the male germline. Int J Androl 2005;28:171-9.
230.   Guler G, Tomruk A, Ozgur E, Seyhan N. The effect of radiofrequency radiation on DNA and lipid damage
       in non-pregnant and pregnant rabbits and their newborns. Gen Physiol Biophys 2010;29:59-66.
231.   Borhani N, Rajaei F, Salehi Z, Javadi A. Analysis of DNA fragmentation in mouse embryos exposed to an
       extremely low-frequency electromagnetic field. Electromagn Biol Med 2011;30:246-52.
232.   Sedeghi T, Ahmadi A, Javadian M, et al. Preterm birth among women living within 600 meters of high
       voltage overhead power lines: a case-control study. Rom J Intern Med 2017;Apr 18:{Epub ahead of
       print}.
233.   Bahreymi Toossi MH, Sadeghnia HR, Mohammad Mahdizadeh Feyzabadi M, et al. Exposure to mobile
       phone (900-1800 MHz) during pregnancy: tissue oxidative stress after childbirth. J Matern Fetal
       Neonatal Med 2017;Apr 23 {Epub ahead of print}:1-6.
234.   Sudan M, Kheifets L, Arah O, Olsen J, Zeltzer L. Prenatal and Postnatal Cell Phone Exposures and
       Headaches in Children. Open Pediatr Med Journal 2012;6:46-52.
235.   Aldad TS, Gan G, Gao XB, Taylor HS. Fetal radiofrequency radiation exposure from 800-1900 mhz-rated
       cellular telephones affects neurodevelopment and behavior in mice. Sci Rep;2:312.
236.   Shahin S, Singh VP, Shukla RK, et al. 2.45 GHz microwave irradiation-induced oxidative stress affects
       implantation or pregnancy in mice, Mus musculus. Appl Biochem Biotechnol 2013;169:1727-51.
237.   Othman H, Ammari M, Sakly M, Abdelmelek H. Effects of prenatal exposure to WiFi signal on postnatal
       development and behavior in rat: Influence of maternal restraint. Behavioral Brain Research
       2017;36:291-302.
238.   Zarei S, Mortazavi SMJ, Mehdizadeh AR, et al. A Challenging Issue in the Etiology of Speech Problems:
       The Effect of Maternal Exposure to Electromagnetic Fields on Speech Problems in the Offspring. Journal
       of Biomedical Physics & Engineering 2015;5:151-4.
239.   Divan HA, Kheifets L, Obel C, Olsen J. Prenatal and postnatal exposure to cell phone use and behavioral
       problems in children. Epidemiology 2008;19:523-9.
240.   Divan HA, Kheifets L, Obel C, Olsen J. Cell phone use and behavioural problems in young children. J
       Epidemiol Community Health 2012;66:524-9.
241.   Birks L, Guxens M, Papadopoulou E, et al. Maternal cell phone use during pregnancy and child
       behavioral problems in five birth cohorts. Environment International 2017.
242.   Reiter RJ. Alterations of the circadian melatonin rhythm by the electromagnetic spectrum: a study in
       environmental toxicology. Regul Toxicol Pharmacol 1992;15:226-44.
243.   Reiter RJ. Static and extremely low frequency electromagnetic field exposure: reported effects on the
       circadian production of melatonin. J Cell Biochem 1993;51:394-403.
244.   Reiter RJ. Electromagnetic fields and melatonin production. Biomed Pharmacother 1993;47:439-44.
245.   Reiter RJ. Melatonin suppression by static and extremely low frequency electromagnetic fields:
       relationship to the reported increased incidence of cancer. Rev Environ Health 1994;10:171-86.
246.   Fernie KJ, Bird DM, Petitclerc D. Effects of electromagnetic fields on photophasic circulating melatonin
       levels in American kestrels. Environ Health Perspect 1999;107:901-4.
247.   Griefahn B, Kunemund C, Blaszkewicz M, Lerchl A, Degen GH. Effects of electromagnetic radiation
       (bright light, extremely low-frequency magnetic fields, infrared radiation) on the circadian rhythm of
       melatonin synthesis, rectal temperature, and heart rate. Ind Health 2002;40:320-7.
248.   Jarupat S, Kawabata A, Tokura H, Borkiewicz A. Effects of the 1900 MHz electromagnetic field emitted
       from cellular phone on nocturnal melatonin secretion. J Physiol Anthropol Appl Human Sci 2003;22:61-3.
249.   [Melatonin in the environmental medicine diagnosis in connection with electromagnetic fields:
       statement of the commission "Methods and Quality Assurance in Environmental Medicine" ].
       Bundesgesundheitsblatt Gesundheitsforschung Gesundheitsschutz 2005;48:1406-8.
250.   Rapoport SI, Breus TK. [Melatonin as a most important factor of natural electromagnetic fields impacting
       patients with hypertensive disease and coronary heart disease. Part 1]. Klin Med (Mosk) 2011;89:9-14.
251.   Dyche J, Anch AM, Fogler KA, Barnett DW, Thomas C. Effects of power frequency electromagnetic fields
       on melatonin and sleep in the rat. Emerg Health Threats J 2012;5.
252.   Qin F, Zhang J, Cao H, et al. Effects of 1800-MHz radiofrequency fields on circadian rhythm of plasma
       melatonin and testosterone in male rats. J Toxicol Environ Health A 2012;75:1120-8.
253.   Bagchi M, Balmoori J, Ye X, Bagchi D, Ray SD, Stohs SJ. Protective effect of melatonin on naphthalene-
       induced oxidative stress and DNA damage in cultured macrophage J774A.1 cells. Mol Cell Biochem
       2001;221:49-55.
254.   Abdel Moneim AE, Ortiz F, Leonardo-Mendonca RC, et al. Protective effects of melatonin against
       oxidative damage induced by Egyptian cobra (Naja haje) crude venom in rats. Acta Trop 2015;143:58-65.
255.   Abd-Elghaffar S, El-Sokkary GH, Sharkawy AA. Aluminum-induced neurotoxicity and oxidative damage in
       rabbits: protective effect of melatonin. Neuro Endocrinol Lett 2005;26:609-16.
256.   Abdel-Wahab MH, Arafa HM, El-Mahdy MA, Abdel-Naim AB. Potential protective effect of melatonin
       against dibromoacetonitrile-induced oxidative stress in mouse stomach. Pharmacol Res 2002;46:287-93.
257.   Abdel-Wahhab MA, Abdel-Galil MM, El-Lithey M. Melatonin counteracts oxidative stress in rats fed an
       ochratoxin A contaminated diet. J Pineal Res 2005;38:130-5.
258.   Abraham P, Kolli VK, Rabi S. Melatonin attenuates methotrexate-induced oxidative stress and renal
       damage in rats. Cell Biochem Funct 2010;28:426-33.
259.   Agil A, Reiter RJ, Jimenez-Aranda A, et al. Melatonin ameliorates low-grade inflammation and oxidative
       stress in young Zucker diabetic fatty rats. J Pineal Res 2013;54:381-8.
260.   Aksoy N, Vural H, Sabuncu T, Aksoy S. Effects of melatonin on oxidative-antioxidative status of tissues in
       streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. Cell Biochem Funct 2003;21:121-5.
261.   Aktas C, Kanter M, Erboga M, Mete R, Oran M. Melatonin attenuates oxidative stress, liver damage and
       hepatocyte apoptosis after bile-duct ligation in rats. Toxicol Ind Health 2014;30:835-44.
262.   Albendea CD, Gomez-Trullen EM, Fuentes-Broto L, et al. Melatonin reduces lipid and protein oxidative
       damage in synaptosomes due to aluminium. J Trace Elem Med Biol 2007;21:261-8.
263.   Al-Malki AL. Synergestic effect of lycopene and melatonin against the genesis of oxidative stress induced
       by cyclophosphamide in rats. Toxicol Ind Health 2014;30:570-5.
264.   Aranda M, Albendea CD, Lostale F, et al. In vivo hepatic oxidative stress because of carbon tetrachloride
       toxicity: protection by melatonin and pinoline. J Pineal Res 2010;49:78-85.
265.   Arushanian EB. [Limitation of oxidative stress as the main factor of the universal protective properties of
       melatonin]. Eksp Klin Farmakol 2012;75:44-9.
266.   Bagheri F, Goudarzi I, Lashkarbolouki T, Elahdadi Salmani M. Melatonin prevents oxidative damage
       induced by maternal ethanol administration and reduces homocysteine in the cerebellum of rat pups.
       Behav Brain Res 2015;287:215-25.
267.   Aynali G, Naziroglu M, Celik O, Dogan M, Yariktas M, Yasan H. Modulation of wireless (2.45 GHz)-
       induced oxidative toxicity in laryngotracheal mucosa of rat by melatonin. Eur Arch Otorhinolaryngol
       2013;270:1695-700.
268.   Bardak Y, Ozerturk Y, Ozguner F, Durmus M, Delibas N. Effect of melatonin against oxidative stress in
       ultraviolet-B exposed rat lens. Curr Eye Res 2000;20:225-30.
269.   Argun M, Tok L, Uguz AC, Celik O, Tok OY, Naziroglu M. Melatonin and amfenac modulate calcium entry,
       apoptosis, and oxidative stress in ARPE-19 cell culture exposed to blue light irradiation (405 nm). Eye
       (Lond) 2014;28:752-60.
270.   Ayata A, Mollaoglu H, Yilmaz HR, Akturk O, Ozguner F, Altuntas I. Oxidative stress-mediated skin damage
       in an experimental mobile phone model can be prevented by melatonin. J Dermatol 2004;31:878-83.
271.   Bhatia AL, Manda K. Study on pre-treatment of melatonin against radiation-induced oxidative stress in
       mice. Environ Toxicol Pharmacol 2004;18:13-20.
272.   Guney Y, Hicsonmez A, Uluoglu C, et al. Melatonin prevents inflammation and oxidative stress caused by
       abdominopelvic and total body irradiation of rat small intestine. Braz J Med Biol Res 2007;40:1305-14.
273.   Jang SS, Kim HG, Lee JS, et al. Melatonin reduces X-ray radiation-induced lung injury in mice by
       modulating oxidative stress and cytokine expression. Int J Radiat Biol 2013;89:97-105.
274.   Kim BC, Shon BS, Ryoo YW, Kim SP, Lee KS. Melatonin reduces X-ray irradiation-induced oxidative
       damages in cultured human skin fibroblasts. J Dermatol Sci 2001;26:194-200.
275.   Koc M, Taysi S, Buyukokuroglu ME, Bakan N. Melatonin protects rat liver against irradiation-induced
       oxidative injury. J Radiat Res 2003;44:211-5.
276.   Manda K, Ueno M, Anzai K. Melatonin mitigates oxidative damage and apoptosis in mouse cerebellum
       induced by high-LET 56Fe particle irradiation. J Pineal Res 2008;44:189-96.
277.   Naziroglu M, Celik O, Ozgul C, et al. Melatonin modulates wireless (2.45 GHz)-induced oxidative injury
       through TRPM2 and voltage gated Ca(2+) channels in brain and dorsal root ganglion in rat. Physiol Behav
       2012;105:683-92.
278.   Oksay T, Naziroglu M, Dogan S, Guzel A, Gumral N, Kosar PA. Protective effects of melatonin against
       oxidative injury in rat testis induced by wireless (2.45 GHz) devices. Andrologia 2012.
279.   Sener G, Atasoy BM, Ersoy Y, Arbak S, Sengoz M, Yegen BC. Melatonin protects against ionizing
       radiation-induced oxidative damage in corpus cavernosum and urinary bladder in rats. J Pineal Res
       2004;37:241-6.
280.   Sharma S, Haldar C. Melatonin prevents X-ray irradiation induced oxidative damagein peripheral blood
       and spleen of the seasonally breeding rodent, Funambulus pennanti during reproductively active phase.
       Int J Radiat Biol 2006;82:411-9.
281.   Sokolovic D, Djindjic B, Nikolic J, et al. Melatonin reduces oxidative stress induced by chronic exposure of
       microwave radiation from mobile phones in rat brain. J Radiat Res 2008;49:579-86.
282.   Taysi S, Memisogullari R, Koc M, et al. Melatonin reduces oxidative stress in the rat lens due to
       radiation-induced oxidative injury. Int J Radiat Biol 2008;84:803-8.
283.   Tok L, Naziroglu M, Dogan S, Kahya MC, Tok O. Effects of melatonin on Wi-Fi-induced oxidative stress in
       lens of rats. Indian J Ophthalmol 2014;62:12-5.
284.   Yilmaz S, Yilmaz E. Effects of melatonin and vitamin E on oxidative-antioxidative status in rats exposed to
       irradiation. Toxicology 2006;222:1-7.
285.   Albers DS, Beal MF. Mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress in aging and neurodegenerative
       disease. J Neural Transm Suppl 2000;59:133-54.
286.   Ansari MA, Joshi G, Huang Q, et al. In vivo administration of D609 leads to protection of subsequently
       isolated gerbil brain mitochondria subjected to in vitro oxidative stress induced by amyloid beta-peptide
       and other oxidative stressors: relevance to Alzheimer's disease and other oxidative stress-related
       neurodegenerative disorders. Free Radic Biol Med 2006;41:1694-703.
287.   Arumugam S, Thandavarayan RA, Arozal W, et al. Quercetin offers cardioprotection against progression
       of experimental autoimmune myocarditis by suppression of oxidative and endoplasmic reticulum stress
       via endothelin-1/MAPK signalling. Free Radic Res 2012;46:154-63.
288.   Barnham KJ, Masters CL, Bush AI. Neurodegenerative diseases and oxidative stress. Nat Rev Drug Discov
       2004;3:205-14.
289.   Bashir S, Harris G, Denman MA, Blake DR, Winyard PG. Oxidative DNA damage and cellular sensitivity to
       oxidative stress in human autoimmune diseases. Ann Rheum Dis 1993;52:659-66.
290.   Belch JJ, Mackay IR, Hill A, Jennings P, McCollum P. Oxidative stress is present in atherosclerotic
       peripheral arterial disease and further increased by diabetes mellitus. Int Angiol 1995;14:385-8.
291.   Benz CC, Yau C. Ageing, oxidative stress and cancer: paradigms in parallax. Nat Rev Cancer 2008;8:875-9.
292.   Bernstein AI, Miller GW. Oxidative signaling in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. Toxicol Sci
       2010;114:159-61.
293.   Bonnefont-Rousselot D. Obesity and oxidative stress: potential roles of melatonin as antioxidant and
       metabolic regulator. Endocr Metab Immune Disord Drug Targets 2014;14:159-68.
294.   Butterfield DA, Castegna A, Drake J, Scapagnini G, Calabrese V. Vitamin E and neurodegenerative
       disorders associated with oxidative stress. Nutr Neurosci 2002;5:229-39.
295.   Butterfield DA, Howard BJ, LaFontaine MA. Brain oxidative stress in animal models of accelerated aging
       and the age-related neurodegenerative disorders, Alzheimer's disease and Huntington's disease. Curr
       Med Chem 2001;8:815-28.
296.   Ceriello A, Motz E. Is oxidative stress the pathogenic mechanism underlying insulin resistance, diabetes,
       and cardiovascular disease? The common soil hypothesis revisited. Arterioscler Thromb Vasc Biol
       2004;24:816-23.
297.   Chang YC, Chuang LM. The role of oxidative stress in the pathogenesis of type 2 diabetes: from
       molecular mechanism to clinical implication. Am J Transl Res 2010;2:316-31.
298.   Chauhan A, Chauhan V. Oxidative stress in autism. Pathophysiology 2006;13:171-81.
299.   Chauhan A, Chauhan V, Brown WT, Cohen I. Oxidative stress in autism: increased lipid peroxidation and
       reduced serum levels of ceruloplasmin and transferrin--the antioxidant proteins. Life Sci 2004;75:2539-
       49.
300.   Dhaun N, Kluth DC. Oxidative stress promotes hypertension and albuminuria during the autoimmune
       disease systemic lupus erythematosus. Hypertension 2012;59:e47; author reply e8.
301.   Dobrian AD, Davies MJ, Schriver SD, Lauterio TJ, Prewitt RL. Oxidative stress in a rat model of obesity-
       induced hypertension. Hypertension 2001;37:554-60.
302.   Donkena KV, Young CY, Tindall DJ. Oxidative stress and DNA methylation in prostate cancer. Obstet
       Gynecol Int 2010;2010:302051.
303.   Facheris M, Beretta S, Ferrarese C. Peripheral markers of oxidative stress and excitotoxicity in
       neurodegenerative disorders: tools for diagnosis and therapy? J Alzheimers Dis 2004;6:177-84.
304.   Gilgun-Sherki Y, Melamed E, Offen D. Oxidative stress induced-neurodegenerative diseases: the need for
       antioxidants that penetrate the blood brain barrier. Neuropharmacology 2001;40:959-75.
305.   Henriksen EJ, Diamond-Stanic MK, Marchionne EM. Oxidative stress and the etiology of insulin
       resistance and type 2 diabetes. Free Radic Biol Med 2011;51:993-9.
306.   Hoeldtke RD, Bryner KD, VanDyke K. Oxidative stress and autonomic nerve function in early type 1
       diabetes. Clin Auton Res 2011;21:19-28.
307.   Islam MT. Oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction-linked neurodegenerative disorders. Neurol
       Res 2017;39:73-82.
308.   James SJ, Cutler P, Melnyk S, et al. Metabolic biomarkers of increased oxidative stress and impaired
       methylation capacity in children with autism. Am J Clin Nutr 2004;80:1611-7.
309.   Kaffe ET, Rigopoulou EI, Koukoulis GK, Dalekos GN, Moulas AN. Oxidative stress and antioxidant status in
       patients with autoimmune liver diseases. Redox Rep 2015;20:33-41.
310.   Karbownik M, Reiter RJ. Melatonin protects against oxidative stress caused by delta-aminolevulinic acid:
       implications for cancer reduction. Cancer Invest 2002;20:276-86.
311.   Karbownik M, Reiter RJ, Burkhardt S, Gitto E, Tan DX, Lewinski A. Melatonin attenuates estradiol-
       induced oxidative damage to DNA: relevance for cancer prevention. Exp Biol Med (Maywood)
       2001;226:707-12.
312.   Kern JK, Jones AM. Evidence of toxicity, oxidative stress, and neuronal insult in autism. J Toxicol Environ
       Health B Crit Rev 2006;9:485-99.
313.   Khandrika L, Kumar B, Koul S, Maroni P, Koul HK. Oxidative stress in prostate cancer. Cancer Lett 2009.
314.   Kovacic P, Jacintho JD. Systemic lupus erythematosus and other autoimmune diseases from endogenous
       and exogenous agents: unifying theme of oxidative stress. Mini Rev Med Chem 2003;3:568-75.
315.   Kumagai S, Jikimoto T, Saegusa J. [Pathological roles of oxidative stress in autoimmune diseases]. Rinsho
       Byori 2003;51:126-32.
316.   Kumagai S, Nobuhara Y, Saegusa J. [Oxidative stress and autoimmune diseases]. Nihon Naika Gakkai
       Zasshi 2003;92:1096-103.
317.   Kupczyk D, Rybka J, Kedziora-Kornatowska K, Kedziora J. [Melatonin and oxidative stress in elderly
       patients with type 2 diabetes]. Pol Merkur Lekarski 2010;28:407-9.
318.   Lin MT, Beal MF. Mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress in neurodegenerative diseases. Nature
       2006;443:787-95.
319.   Mariani E, Polidori MC, Cherubini A, Mecocci P. Oxidative stress in brain aging, neurodegenerative and
       vascular diseases: an overview. J Chromatogr B Analyt Technol Biomed Life Sci 2005;827:65-75.
320.   McGinnis WR. Oxidative stress in autism. Altern Ther Health Med 2005;11:19.
321.   Moreno-Otero R. May oxidative stress contribute to autoimmune hepatitis pathogenesis, and can
       antioxidants be of value as adjuvant therapy for refractory patients? Dig Dis Sci 2013;58:1440-1.
322.   Nguyen AM, Rao NA. Oxidative photoreceptor cell damage in autoimmune uveitis. J Ophthalmic Inflamm
       Infect 2011;1:7-13.
323.   Pandi-Perumal SR, BaHammam AS, Brown GM, et al. Melatonin antioxidative defense: therapeutical
       implications for aging and neurodegenerative processes. Neurotox Res 2013;23:267-300.
324.   Pereira EC, Ferderbar S, Bertolami MC, et al. Biomarkers of oxidative stress and endothelial dysfunction
       in glucose intolerance and diabetes mellitus. Clin Biochem 2008;41:1454-60.
325.   Pillarisetti S, Saxena U. Role of oxidative stress and inflammation in the origin of Type 2 diabetes--a
       paradigm shift. Expert Opin Ther Targets 2004;8:401-8.
326.   Rao AV, Balachandran B. Role of oxidative stress and antioxidants in neurodegenerative diseases. Nutr
       Neurosci 2002;5:291-309.
327.   Rodrigues P, de Marco G, Furriol J, et al. Oxidative stress in susceptibility to breast cancer: study in
       Spanish population. BMC Cancer 2014;14:861.
328.   Rose S, Melnyk S, Pavliv O, et al. Evidence of oxidative damage and inflammation associated with low
       glutathione redox status in the autism brain. Transl Psychiatry 2012;2:e134.
329.   Rossignol DA, Frye RE. A review of research trends in physiological abnormalities in autism spectrum
       disorders: immune dysregulation, inflammation, oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction and
       environmental toxicant exposures. Mol Psychiatry 2012;17:389-401.
330.   Shah AA, Sinha AA. Oxidative stress and autoimmune skin disease. Eur J Dermatol 2013;23:5-13.
331.   Sheridan J, Wang LM, Tosetto M, et al. Nuclear oxidative damage correlates with poor survival in
       colorectal cancer. Br J Cancer 2009;100:381-8.
332.   Sondergaard ES, Gogenur I. [Oxidative stress may cause metastatic disease in patients with colorectal
       cancer.]. Ugeskr Laeger 2014;176.
333.   Srinivasan V. Melatonin oxidative stress and neurodegenerative diseases. Indian J Exp Biol 2002;40:668-
       79.
334.   Sun GY, Wood WG. Recent developments in understanding oxidative mechanisms and contributions of
       glial cell activation, mitochondrial dysfunction, and lipids and signaling pathways to neurodegenerative
       diseases. Preface. Mol Neurobiol 2010;41:53-4.
335.   Udensi UK, Tchounwou PB. Dual effect of oxidative stress on leukemia cancer induction and treatment. J
       Exp Clin Cancer Res 2014;33:106.
336.   Valko M, Rhodes CJ, Moncol J, Izakovic M, Mazur M. Free radicals, metals and antioxidants in oxidative
       stress-induced cancer. Chem Biol Interact 2006;160:1-40.
337.   Vessby J, Basu S, Mohsen R, Berne C, Vessby B. Oxidative stress and antioxidant status in type 1 diabetes
       mellitus. J Intern Med 2002;251:69-76.
338.   Wells PG, McCallum GP, Chen CS, et al. Oxidative stress in developmental origins of disease:
       teratogenesis, neurodevelopmental deficits, and cancer. Toxicol Sci 2009;108:4-18.
339.   Yamamoto T. Autoimmune mechanisms of scleroderma and a role of oxidative stress. Self Nonself
       2011;2:4-10.
340.   Yao Y, Walsh WJ, McGinnis WR, Pratico D. Altered vascular phenotype in autism: correlation with
       oxidative stress. Arch Neurol 2006;63:1161-4.
341.   Yu JH, Kim H. Oxidative stress and cytokines in the pathogenesis of pancreatic cancer. J Cancer Prev
       2014;19:97-102.
342.   Zephy D, Ahmad J. Type 2 diabetes mellitus: Role of melatonin and oxidative stress. Diabetes Metab
       Syndr 2015;9:127-31.
343.   Zoroglu SS, Armutcu F, Ozen S, et al. Increased oxidative stress and altered activities of erythrocyte free
       radical scavenging enzymes in autism. Eur Arch Psychiatry Clin Neurosci 2004;254:143-7.
344.   Torbenko VP, Bogdanova IA, Gerasimov AM. [Effect of a combined radiation lesion on the enzyme
       activity of the glutathione redox system of the rat liver]. Biull Eksp Biol Med 1983;95:48-50.
345.   Erden M, Bor NM. Changes of reduced glutathion, glutathion reductase, and glutathione peroxidase
       after radiation in guinea pigs. Biochem Med 1984;31:217-27.
346.   Evans JW, Taylor YC, Brown JM. The role of glutathione and DNA strand break repair in determining the
       shoulder of the radiation survival curve. Br J Cancer Suppl 1984;6:49-53.
347.   Boyer TD, Vessey DA, Kempner E. Radiation inactivation of microsomal glutathione S-transferase. J Biol
       Chem 1986;261:16963-8.
348.   Connor MJ, Wheeler LA. Depletion of cutaneous glutathione by ultraviolet radiation. Photochem
       Photobiol 1987;46:239-45.
349.   Singh LR, Uniyal BP, Mukherjee SK, Sarkar SR, Sharma SK. Effect of whole body gamma-radiation on
       glutathione reductase of rat tissues. Strahlenther Onkol 1987;163:337-9.
350.   Leus NF, Kolomiichuk SG, Lishchenko VB. [Activity of glutathione-S-transferase in the blood plasma, liver
       and crystalline lens tissues as affected by low doses of ionizing radiation and polychromatic light]. Ukr
       Biokhim Zh 1997;69:54-9.
351.   Grande S, Luciani AM, Rosi A, et al. Radiation effects on soluble metabolites in cultured HeLa cells
       examined by 1H MRS: changes in concentration of glutathione and of lipid catabolites induced by
       gamma rays and proton beams. Int J Cancer 2001;96 Suppl:27-42.
352.   Rathgen GH. [Radiation-induced changes of the glutathione content of some rat organs modified by
       cysteine]. Strahlentherapie 1970;139:243-50.
353.   Rathgen GH, Lieser H. [Significance of glutathione in radiation effect studies and chemical radiation
       protection]. Strahlentherapie 1972;143:670-6.
354.   Sarkar SR, Singh LR, Uniyal BP, Chaudhuri BN. Effect of whole body gamma radiation on reduced
       glutathione contents of rat tissues. Strahlentherapie 1983;159:32-3.
355.   Rosi A, Grande S, Luciani AM, et al. Role of glutathione in apoptosis induced by radiation as determined
       by 1H MR spectra of cultured tumor cells. Radiat Res 2007;167:268-82.
356.   Tanita J, Tsuchida S, Hozawa J, Sato K. Expression of glutathione S-transferase-pi in human squamous
       cell carcinomas of the pharynx and larynx. Loss after radiation therapy. Cancer 1993;72:569-76.
357.   Vartanyan LS, Gurevich SM, Kozachenko AI, Nagler LG, Lozovskaya EL, Burlakova EB. Changes in
       superoxide production rate and in superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase activities in
       subcellular organelles in mouse liver under exposure to low doses of low-intensity radiation.
       Biochemistry (Mosc) 2000;65:442-6.
358.   Woodward GE. The effect of ultra-violet, radium and X-ray radiation on glutathione in pure solution.
       Biochem J 1933;27:1411-4.
359.   Byun YH, Ha M, Kwon HJ, et al. Mobile phone use, blood lead levels, and attention deficit hyperactivity
       symptoms in children: a longitudinal study. PLoS One 2013;8:e59742.
360.   Sanie-Jahromi F, Saadat Z, Saadat M. Effects of extremely low frequency electromagnetic fields and
       cisplatin on mRNA levels of some DNA repair genes. Life Sciences 2016;3205:30588-4.
Cindy Sage, Sage Associates                                            19 January 2018


    Effects of Electromagnetic Interference by Radiofrequency Radiation on
      Implantable Devices like Pacemakers, Defibrillators and Deep Brain
                                  Stimulators.
    Abstracts from Henry Lai RFR Research Summary, BioInitiative Report
                 Updated 2017, Downloaded January 19, 2018.


Altamura G, Toscano S, Gentilucci G, Ammirati F, Castro A, Pandozi C, Santini
M, Influence of digital and analogue cellular telephones on implanted
pacemakers. Eur Heart J 18(10):1632-4161, 1997.
The aim of this study was to find out whether digital and analogue cellular 'phones
affect patients with pacemakers. The study comprised continuous ECG monitoring of
200 pacemaker patients. During the monitoring certain conditions caused by
interference created by the telephone were looked for: temporary or prolonged
pacemaker inhibition; a shift to asynchronous mode caused by electromagnetic
interference; an increase in ventricular pacing in dual chamber pacemakers, up to the
programmed upper rate. The Global System for Mobile Communications system
interfered with pacing 97 times in 43 patients (21.5%). During tests on Total Access
of Communication System telephones, there were 60 cases of pacing interference in
35 patients (17.5%). There were 131 interference episodes during ringing vs 26
during the on/off phase; (P < 0.0001); 106 at maximum sensitivity level vs 51 at the
'base' value; P <0.0001). Prolonged pacing inhibition (> 4 s) was seen at the
pacemaker 'base' sensing value in six patients using the Global system but in only
one patient using Total Access. CONCLUSION: Cellular 'phones may be dangerous
for pacemaker patients. However, they can be used safely if patients do not carry the
'phone close to the pacemaker, which is the only place where high risk interference
has been observed.

Barbaro V, Bartolini P, Donato A, Militello C, Electromagnetic interference of
analog cellular telephones with pacemakers. Pacing Clin Electrophysiol
19(10):1410-1418, 1996.
The aim of this study was to verify whether there is a public health risk from the
interference of analog cellular telephones with pacemakers. We used a human trunk
simulator to reproduce an actual implant, and two cellular telephones working with
the TACS (Total Access Communication System) standard. Results showed that the
electromagnetic field radiated from the analog cellular telephones interfered with a
large number of the pacemakers tested (10/25). When the telephone antenna was in
close proximity to the pacemaker head, pacemaker desensitizing and sensitizing and
pulse inhibition was detected at the moment of an incoming call and throughout
ringing. In the worst case of pulse inhibition, the pacemaker skipped three
nonconsecutive beats and then resumed its normal pacing, while the desensitizing
and sensitizing phenomena persisted as long as the interfering signal was on. Pulse
inhibition was also observed when the connection did not succeed. Maximum
sensing threshold variation was about 186% (increase) and 62% (decrease) for
Cindy Sage, Sage Associates                                                              19 January 2018


desensitizing and sensitizing phenomena, respectively. It was also demonstrated that
the signal emitted by analog cellular telephones during the crossing of contiguous
cells could induce pacemaker pulse inhibition, but under our experimental conditions
this event did not seem to pose a risk for the pacemaker patient.
Bassen HI, Moore HJ, Ruggera PS, Cellular phone interference testing of
implantable cardiac defibrillators in vitro. Pacing Clin Electrophysiol
21(9):1709-1715, 1998.
An in vitro study was undertaken to investigate the potential for cellular telephones to
nterfere with representative models of presently used ICDs. Digital cellular phones
(DCPs) generate strong, amplitude modulated fields with pulse repetition rates near
the physiological range sensed by the ICD as an arrhythmia. DCPs with Time
Division Multiple Access (TDMA) pulsed amplitude modulation caused the most
pronounced effect--high voltage firing or inhibition of pacing output of the ICDs. This
electromagnetic interference (EMI) occurred only when the phones were within 2.3-
5.8 cm of the ICD pulse generator that was submerged 0.5 cm in 0.18% saline. ICD
performance always reverted to baseline when the cellular phones were removed
from the immediate proximity of the ICD. Three models of ICDs were subjected to
EMI susceptibility testing using two types of digital phones and one analog cellular
phone, each operating at their respective maximum output power. EMI was observed
in varying degrees from all DCPs. Inhibition of pacer output occurred in one ICD, and
high voltage firing occurred in the two other ICDs, when a TDMA-11 Hz DCP was
placed within 2.3 cm of the ICD. For the ICD that was most sensitive to delivering
unintended therapy, inhibition followed by firing occurred at distances up to 5.8 cm.
When a TDMA-50 Hz phone was placed at the minimum test distance of 2.3 cm,
inhibition followed by firing was observed in one of the ICDs. EMI occurred most
frequently when the lower portion of the monopole antenna of the cellular phone was
placed over the ICD header.


Cecil S, Neubauer G, Rauscha F, Stix G, Müller W, Breithuber C,
Glanzer M. Possible risks due to exposure of workers and patients
with implants by TETRA transmitters. Bioelectromagnetics. 2014
Jan 16. doi: 10.1002/bem.21839. [Epub ahead of print]
Several studies have demonstrated that mobile telephones that use different technologies, such as
Global System for Mobile Communication (GSM) or Universal Mobile Telecommunication System
(UMTS), have the potential to influence the functionality of active electronic implants, including cardiac
pacemakers. According to these studies, a few safety measures, such as maintaining minimum
distances of 25 cm between implants and transmitters, are sufficient to avoid such effects. Terrestrial
Trunked Radio (TETRA) has become a well-established communication standard in many countries,
including Germany and Austria. TETRA transmitters are typically used by police forces and emergency
services. Employees and volunteers working for such institutions are often in close contact with
patients, causing TETRA transmitters to potentially have an impact on the functionality of the implants
of patients. Therefore, the main focus of our study was to investigate the functionality of several types
of implants when exposed to TETRA transmitters. Moreover, we investigated the difference in the
degree of exposure of users of TETRA transmitters when they carry the devices in different locations
near the body, and when they use them in different positions near the head. Our results show that a
Cindy Sage, Sage Associates                                                           19 January 2018


compliance distance of 30 cm between implant and transmitter is sufficient to exclude any influence on
the examined implants. All examined exposure conditions demonstrated.


Chen WH, Lau CP, Leung SK, Ho DS, Lee IS, Interference of cellular phones
with implanted permanent pacemakers. Clin Cardiol 19(11):881-886, 1996.
BACKGROUND AND HYPOTHESIS: Occasional reports have suggested that
cellular phones may interfere with permanent pacemakers. Our investigation sought
to determine systematically the effects of commercially available cellular phones on
the performances of different pacing modes and sensing lead configurations of
permanent implanted pacemakers. METHODS: We conducted the study in 29
patients implanted with single- or dual-chamber bipolar rate-adaptive permanent
pacemakers (a total of nine different models and six different sensors: minute
ventilation, activity sensing using either accelerometer or piezoelectric crystal, QT
and oxygen saturation sensing) from four different manufacturers. Three different
cellular phones with analog or digital coding with maximum power from 0.6 to 2 W
were used to assess the effect of pacemaker interference. Each cellular phone was
positioned at (1) above the pacemaker pocket, (2) the ear level ipsilateral to the
pacemaker pocket, and (3) the contralateral ear level. Surface electrocardiograms,
intracardiac electrograms, and marker channels were recorded where possible
during the following maneuvers at each position: (1) calls made by a stationary
phone to cellular phone, and (2) calls made from the cellular phone to a stationary
phone. A total of eight different pacing modes [DDD(R), VDD(R), AAI(R) and VVI(R)]
in both unipolar and bipolar sensing configurations was tested. RESULTS:
Interference was demonstrated during cellular phone operation in 74 of 2,418 (3.1%)
episodes in eight patients. Three types of interference were observed: inhibition of
pacing output, rapid ventricular tracking in DDD(R) or VDD(R) mode, and
asynchronous pacing. All were observed only with the cellular phone positioned
above the pacemaker pocket. Interference occurred prior to and after the termination
of the above the pacemaker pocket. Interference occurred prior to and after the
termination of the ringing tone of the cellular ringing tone of the cellular phone in 57%
of cases. Cellular phones with either digital or analog technology could cause
interference. Unipolar atrial lead was most susceptible to interference (relative
frequency of interference: unipolar 1.8%, bipolar 0.4%, p < 0.05; atrial 2.9%,
ventricular 1%, p < 0.05). There was no sensor-driven rate acceleration during all
tests. In all patients, reprogramming of the sensitivity level successfully prevented
cellular phone interference. CONCLUSIONS: Commercially available cellular phones
can cause reversible interference to implanted single- or dual-chamber permanent
pacemakers. The effect is maximal with high atrial unipolar sensitivity, especially in
single pass VDD(R) systems. Both digital and analog cellular phones can lead to
interference. Pacemaker interference can occur prior to a warning sign (ringing tone)
of the phone and may have significant implications in patient safety.

Fetter JG, Ivans V, Benditt DG, Collins J, Digital cellular telephone interaction
with implantable cardioverter-defibrillators. J Am Coll Cardiol 31(3):623-628,
1998.
Cindy Sage, Sage Associates                                                              19 January 2018


OBJECTIVES: This study sought to determine, in vivo, whether electromagnetic interference (EMI),
generated by North American Digital Communications (NADC)/Time Division Multiple Access-50-Hz
(TDMA-50) mobile cellular digital telephone model AT&T 6650, disturbs normal implantable
cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) operation and to verify these observations in vitro by testing a selection
of telephones representing worldwide systems. METHODS: The effects of cellular phone interference
on the operation of various models of market-released ICDs from a single manufacturer, Medtronic,
Inc., were tested. The in vivo clinical test was undertaken in 41 patients using the AT&T 6650 digital
telephone with the NADC/TDMA-50 technology. The in vitro component of the study was examined
twofold: 1) antenna generated far field; and 2) analog/digital cellular telephone near field. RESULTS:
None of the ICDs tested in 41 patients were affected by oversensing of the EMI field of the cellular
telephones during the in vivo study. Therefore, the binomial upper 95% confidence limit for the failure
rate of 0% is 7%. The in vitro antenna-generated field testing showed that telephone modulation
frequencies used in the international Global System Mobile and TDMA-50 cellular telephone
technologies did not result in ICD sensing interference at the predicted electric field intensity. The in
vitro near field tests were performed using both analog and digital cellular telephones in service, or in
the test mode, and indicated no interaction with normal operation. However, the static magnetic field
generated by the cellular telephone placed over the ICD at a distance < or = 0.5 cm will activate the
internal reed switch, resulting in temporary suspension of ventricular tachycardia and fibrillation
detection. CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that TDMA-50 cellular telephones did not interfere with these
types of ICDs. However, we recommend that the patient not carry or place the digital cellular telephone
within 15 cm (6 in.) of the ICD.

Geller L, Thuroczy G, Merkely B. Orv Hetil 142(36):1963-1970, 2001. [Article in
Hungarian]
Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) of cellular phones and pacemakers (PM) was
examined in four different cellular phone system (NMT, GSM, RLL, DCS 1800 MHz)
and in fifteen different PM type in-vitro and in-vivo in humans. After more than 1100
in-vitro and 130 in-vivo tests we concluded, that the electromagnetic immunity of the
PMs which are implanted in Hungary is suitable with only few exceptions. The
highest rate of EMC problems was observed with NMT 450 MHz cellular phones
(10.5%-63%). There was no EMC disturbance observed with GSM and DCS 1800
MHz cellular phones. There was only one case when clinically significant symptom
was noticed with only one PM type and with NMT system cellular phone when the
distance of cellular phone was 3-4 cms, and the power was maximal. There was not
any EMC disturbance observed with none of the cellular phone systems during
normal talking and when the distance of the PM and cellular phone was more than
20 cms. Our study supports guidelines which suggest that PM patients should
contact their physicians when using cellular phones and cellular phones and PMs
should not get closer than 20 cms.
Grant FH, Schlegel RE, Effects of an increased air gap on the in vitro
interaction of wireless phones with cardiac
pacemakers. Bioelectromagnetics 21(7):485-490, 2000.
Several clinical and laboratory studies have demonstrated electromagnetic
interaction between implantable cardiac pacemakers and hand-held wireless
phones operated in close proximity. Current FDA and HIMA labeling guidelines
indicate that a minimum separation of 6 in (15 cm) should be maintained
between a hand-held wireless phone and an implanted pacemaker. This
separation requirement does not distinguish between lateral locations on the
chest and a perpendicular air gap. Evidence is provided here for a substantially
Cindy Sage, Sage Associates                                            19 January 2018


reduced separation threshold when measured across an air gap rather than near
the saline conductive media of a simulated torso. Twenty pacemaker-phone
combinations involving 6 pacemakers and 9 phones were evaluated in vitro
under worst-case conditions with respect to phone output power and pacemaker
sensitivity. The phones represented CDMA, TDMA-11 Hz, TDMA-22 Hz, TDMA-
50 Hz, and TDMA-217 Hz digital wireless technologies. Small increases in the
perpendicular air gap between the phone and the saline surface resulted in a
dramatic reduction in interaction. Approximately half of the 208 test runs
exhibiting interaction at an air gap of 1 cm no longer resulted in interaction when
the gap was increased to 2 cm. At a gap of 7.4 cm, the percentage of runs with
interaction decreased to 1.4%. The overall interaction rate, considering a total of
8296 test runs from an earlier study, was less than 0.07% at a total perpendicular
distance of 8.6 cm from the saline surface to the phone antenna axis. The
perpendicular distance threshold of 8.6 cm was significantly less than the
horizontal plane projection threshold of 19 cm previously reported. This
difference is a function of the electromagnetic field coupling to the saline bath
rather than field strength changes along the axis of the phone antenna. The
results have implications for those making recommendations to pacemaker
patients who may be unaware of this distinction.
Grant H, Heirman D, Kuriger G, Ravindran MM. In vitro study of the
electromagnetic interaction between wireless phones and an implantable
neural stimulator. Bioelectromagnetics. 25(5):356-361, 2004.
Several clinical and laboratory studies have demonstrated electromagnetic
interaction between implantable medical devices like pacemakers and cell phones
being operated in close proximity. Those devices are largely now immune to phone
interaction or procedures have been established to limit their interaction. The use of
cell phones near people with implanted neural stimulators has not been studied. This
research was initiated to investigate electromagnetic interaction between current cell
phone technology and specific models of Cyberonics neural stimulators. Out of 1080
test runs conducted for this study, no interactions were observed, and it was
concluded that the phone technologies examined in this study did not adversely
affect the Cyberonics NeuroStar (Model 102) NeuroCybernetic Prosthesis (NCP)
System. This article provides details on the experimental procedure that was used,
which can also be used to test other neural stimulators and test technologies, and the
results obtained.
Hayes DL, Wang PJ, Reynolds DW, Estes M 3rd, Griffith JL, Steffens RA, Carlo
GL, Findlay GK, Johnson CM. Interference with cardiac pacemakers by cellular
telephones. N Engl J Med 336(21):1473-1479, 1997.
BACKGROUND: A growing body of evidence suggests that electromagnetic
interference may occur between cardiac pacemakers and wireless hand-held
(cellular) telephones, posing a potential public health problem. Electromagnetic
interference may occur when the pacemaker is exposed to an electromagnetic field
generated by the cellular telephone. METHODS: In this multicenter, prospective,
crossover study, we tested 980 patients with cardiac pacemakers with five types of
Cindy Sage, Sage Associates                                                19 January 2018


telephones (one analogue and four digital) to assess the potential for interference.
Telephones were tested in a test mode and were programmed to transmit at the
maximal power, simulating the worst-case scenario; in addition, one telephone was
tested during actual transmission to simulate actual use. Patients were
electrocardiographically monitored while the telephones were tested at the ipsilateral
ear and in a series of maneuvers directly over the pacemaker. Interference was
classified according to the type and clinical significance of the effect. RESULTS: The
incidence of any type of interference was 20 percent in the 5533 tests, and the
incidence of symptoms was 7.2 percent. The incidence of clinically significant
interference was 6.6 percent. There was no clinically significant interference when
the telephone was placed in the normal position over the ear. Interference that was
definitely clinically significant occurred in only 1.7 percent of tests, and only when the
telephone was held over the pacemaker. Interference was more frequent with dual-
chamber pacemakers (25.3 percent) than with single-chamber pacemakers (6.8
percent, P<0.001) and more frequent with pacemakers without feed-through filters
(28.9 to 55.8 percent) than with those with such filters (0.4 to 0.8 percent, P=0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: Cellular telephones can interfere with the function of implanted
cardiac pacemakers. However, when telephones are placed over the ear, the normal
position, this interference does not pose a health risk.
Hofgartner F, Muller T, Sigel H, [Could C- and D-network mobile phones
endanger patients with pacemakers]? Dtsch Med Wochenschr 121(20):646-652,
1996. [Article in German]
OBJECTIVE: To investigate prospectively the extent of potentially harmful
interference of cardiac pacemakers by mobile phones in the C (analog) and D
(digital) networks in use in Germany. PATIENTS AND METHODS: 104 patients (54
men, 50 women; mean age 75.8 [40-100] years) with 58 different implanted
pacemaker models (43 one-chamber and 15 two-chamber systems) underwent
uniform tests at various functional states with three different telephones (D1 portable
8 Watt, D1 Handy model 2 Watt, C Handy model 0.5 Watt). The distances between
telephone aerial and pacemaker, as well as reception sensitivity and polarity of the
pacemaker were varied. All tests were done during continuous ECG monitoring.
RESULTS: 28 different pacemaker types (48.3%) in 43 patients (41.3%) showed
interference in the form of pacemaker inhibition and switching to interference
frequencies as well as triggering of pacemaker-mediated tachycardias in the DDD
mode, as well as in the temperature-regulated frequency-adaptive function. D
portables influenced pacemaker function more often and at greater distance than the
D Handy model, which was little different from the c network hand phone. Reduction
in pacemaker sensitivity as well as switching to bipolar reception only partly
eliminated the interference. CONCLUSIONS: Patients with implanted pacemakers
should if possible not use mobile phones in the C and D networks. Individual testing
with suitable programming of pacemaker sensitivity and polarity can reduce the risk
of interference.


Irnich W, Tobisch R, [Effect of mobile phone on life-saving and life-sustaining
Cindy Sage, Sage Associates                                                 19 January 2018


systems]. Biomed Tech (Berl) 43(6):164-173, 1998. [Article in German]
Since the beginning of the nineties there have been warnings not to use mobile
phones in the vicinity of medical devices. Functional failures of dialysis machines,
respirators and defibrillators prompted the banning of their use in many hospitals in
Scandinavia, and then in other countries. Since we believe that a general ban in
hospitals is problematic, we decided to investigate the influence of mobile telephone
on life-saving and/or life-support systems, with the aim of establishing rules for its use
in hospitals. We investigated available phones of varying power of the C-, D- and E-
net, as also of a cordless phone meeting the DECT standard. The aim was to identify
the devices susceptible to interference and determine the minimum distances at
which interference occurred. A total of 224 devices classified into 23 types of devices
were examined. Nine different sets of transmission conditions were applied, giving a
total of 2016 tests. Our results permit the conclusion that the ban on mobile phones
in hospitals is based not on actual events, but on theoretical considerations in the
absence of any practical information on the actual susceptibility of devices and their
reaction to the electromagnetic fields involved. The fact that hazardous situations are
very rare is due firstly to the need for the simultaneous occurrence of four
coincidences, and the fail-save feature of medical devices. We would therefore
recommend that all life-saving and life-support systems that can also be used outside
the hospital should be made mobile phone-proof. When apnoea monitors and
respirators are protected from such interference, hazardous situations could be
avoided by establishing the rule: "No portables, and mobile phones only at a distance
of at least 1 metre from medical devices". With regard to emergency telephones, the
minimum distance to medical devices should be at least 1.5 metres.
Irnich W, Batz L, Muller R, Tobisch R, electromagnetic interference of
pacemakers by mobile phones. Pacing Clin Electrophysiol 19(10):1431-1446,
1996.
The topic of interference of pacemakers by mobile phones has evoked a surprisingly
strong interest, not only in pacemaker patients, but also in the public opinion. The
latter is the more surprising, as in the past, the problem of interference has scarcely
found the attention that it deserves in the interest of the patient. It was the intention of
our investigation to test as many pacemaker models as possible to determine
whether incompatibility with mobile phones of different modes may exist, using an in
vitro measuring setup. We had access to 231 different models of 20 manufacturers.
During the measurements, a pulse generator together with a suitable lead was
situated in a 0.9 g/L saline solution, and the antenna of a mobile phone was
positioned as close as possible. If the pulse generator was disturbed, the antenna
was elevated until interference ceased. The gap in which interference occurred was
defined as "maximum interference distance." All three nets existing in Germany, the
C-net (450 MHz, analogue), the D-net (900 MHz, digital pulsed), and the E-net (1,800
MHz, digital pulsed) were tested in succession. Out of 231 pulse generator models,
103 pieces corresponding to 44.6% were influenced either by C- or D-net, if both
results were totaled. However, this view is misleading as no patient will use C- and D-
net phones simultaneously. Separated into C- or D-net interference, the result is
30.7% for C or 34.2% for D, respectively, of all models tested. The susceptible
Cindy Sage, Sage Associates                                              19 January 2018


models represent 18.6% or 27% of today's living patients, respectively. All models
were resistant to the E-net. With respect to D-net phones, all pacemakers of six
manufacturers proved to be unaffected. Eleven other manufacturers possessed
affected and unaffected models as well. A C-net phone only prolonged up to five
pacemaker periods within 10 seconds during dialing without substantial impairment
to the patient. Bipolar pacemakers are as susceptible as unipolar ones. The following
advice for patients and physicians can be derived from our investigations: though
27% of all patients may have problems with D-net phones (not C- or E-net), the
application should generally not be questioned. On the contrary, patients with
susceptible devices should be advised that a distance of 20 cm is sufficient to
guarantee integrity of the pacemaker with respect to hand held phones. Portables, on
the other hand, should have a distance of about 0.5 m. Pacemaker patients really
suffering from mobile phones are very rare unless the phone is just positioned in the
pocket over the pulse generator. The contralateral pocket or the belt position
guarantees, in 99% of all patients, undisturbed operation of the pacemaker. A risk
analysis reveals that the portion of patients really suffering from mobile phones is
about 1 out of 100,000. Nevertheless, it would be desirable in the future if implanting
physicians would use only pacemakers with immunity against mobile phones as
guaranteed by the manufacturers.


Jimenez A, Hernandez Madrid A, Pascual J, Gonzalez Rebollo JM, Fernandez
E, Sanchez A, Ortega J, Lozano F, Munoz R, Moro C, [Electromagnetic
interference between automatic defibrillators and digital and analog cellular
telephones]. Rev Esp Cardiol 51(5):375-382, 1998. [Article in Spanish]
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Functional pacemaker interference by mobile
telephones has been described with analogical systems and with possible greater
influence, digital systems, including inhibition and inadequate pacing. The influence
of both system has not been extensively studied in patients with implantable
cardioverter defibrillators (ICD). PATIENTS AND METHODS: We studied the
influence of mobile phones, both digital and analogic network, on the performance of
several models of defibrillators, in a standardised test set up designed to provide high
sensitivity. The purpose of our study was to establish whether there are any
influences on ICD functions, both in in vivo and in in vitro models. Several mobile
phones, with different transmission powers, were moved towards the defibrillator and
the electrode, under continuous documentation of defibrillator sensing and
interrogation afterwards. The experimental model was performed with the aid of an
arrhythmia simulator (Intersim) and demo-defibrillators. The tests were repeated both
in and out of a solution of saline water with an impedance within normal human limits.
RESULTS: Partial loss of telemetry was found in 14 patients, 8 with analogical
phones and 6 with digital phones. Fourteen patients showed alterations only on the
surface electrocardiogram channel and five on the intracavitary channel. The same
results were reproduced in the in vitro model. However, the in vitro test allowed us to
simulate multiple ventricular arrhythmias, and demonstrate the normal sensing and
functioning of the defibrillator during a "spontaneous" arrhythmia. After testing, we
demonstrate that no real oversensing/undersensing was documented in any device.
Cindy Sage, Sage Associates                                               19 January 2018


There was no evidence of ICD reprogramming or pacing inhibition. In particular, no
inadequate therapies were delivered. CONCLUSIONS: a) in our series, we have not
demonstrated clinically significant electromagnetic interferences with mobile phones
of digital or analogical networks: b) the in vitro model allowed us to conclude that
even if a spontaneous arrhythmia appears, the function of the defibrillator is not
altered; c) the use of mobile phones seems to be safe for defibrillator patients, and d)
however, some basic rules, such as to maintain the phone at least 15 cm away from
the defibrillator, are advised.


Kainz W, Neubauer G, Alesch F, Schmid G, Jahn O. Electromagnetic
compatibility of electronic implants--review of the literature. Wien Klin
Wochenschr 113(23-24):903-914, 2001.
The aim of the article was to provide an overview of published studies regarding the
electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) of electronic implants. The available literature
was sorted according to combinations of implant types and sources of interference.
Several experiments concerning the susceptibility of pacemakers to mobile phones
have been performed. The results of these experiments suggest measures that may
be used to prevent the disturbance of pacemakers. For instance, instead of carrying
the activated mobile phone in the breast pocket it is recommended that a distance of
30 cm be maintained between the pacemaker and the mobile phone, and that the
mobile phone be used on the contralateral side of the pacemaker's location. Similar
measures may be recommended for patients with implantable cardioverter
defibrillators when using mobile phones. Patients with electronic implants should
walk rapidly through anti theft-devices because some of these devices are liable to
disturb implants. Patients with cardiac pacemakers should not be subjected to
magnetic resonance imaging as far as possible. For a variety of combinations of
implants and interference sources, e.g. cardiac pacemakers and base station
antennas, no studies were found in the literature. It is strongly recommended that
trials be carried out to evaluate the potential risk for patients in these settings.
in these settings.
Kainz W, Alesch F, Chan DD. Electromagnetic interference of GSM mobile
phones with the implantable deep brain stimulator, ITREL-III. Biomed Eng
Online 2(1):11, 2003.
BACKGROUND: The purpose was to investigate mobile phone interference with
implantable deep brain stimulators by means of 10 different 900 Mega Hertz (MHz)
and 10 different 1800 MHz GSM (Global System for Mobile Communications) mobile
phones. METHODS: All tests were performed in vitro using a phantom especially
developed for testing with deep brain stimulators. The phantom was filled with liquid
phantom materials simulating brain and muscle tissue. All examinations were carried
out inside an anechoic chamber on two implants of the same type of deep brain
stimulator: ITREL-III from Medtronic Inc., USA. RESULTS: Despite a maximum
transmitted peak power of mobile phones of 1 Watt (W) at 1800 MHz and 2 W at 900
MHz respectively, no influence on the ITREL-III was found. Neither the shape of the
Cindy Sage, Sage Associates                                              19 January 2018


pulse form changed nor did single pulses fail. Tests with increased transmitted power
using CW signals and broadband dipoles have shown that inhibition of the ITREL-III
occurs at frequency dependent power levels which are below the emissions of GSM
mobile phones. The ITREL-III is essentially more sensitive at 1800 MHz than at 900
MHz. Particularly the frequency range around 1500 MHz shows a very low
interference threshold. CONCLUSION: These investigations do not indicate a direct
risk for ITREL-III patients using the tested GSM phones. Based on the interference
levels found with CW signals, which are below the mobile phone emissions, we
recommend similar precautions as for patients with cardiac pacemakers: 1. The
phone should be used at the ear at the opposite side of the implant and 2. The
patient should avoid carrying the phone close to the implant.

Mattei E, Censi F, Triventi M, Calcagnini G. Electromagnetic Immunity of
Implantable Pacemakers Exposed to Wi-Fi Devices. Health Phys. 107(4):318-
325, 2014.

The purpose of this study is to evaluate the potential for electromagnetic interference
(EMI) and to assess the immunity level of implantable pacemakers (PM) when
exposed to the radiofrequency (RF) field generated by Wi-Fi devices. Ten PM from
five manufacturers, representative of what today is implanted in patients, have been
tested in vitro and exposed to the signal generated by a Wi-Fi transmitter. An
exposure setup that reproduces the actual IEEE 802.11b/g protocol has been
designed and used during the tests. The system is able to amplify the Wi-Fi signal
and transmits at power levels higher than those allowed by current international
regulation. Such approach allows one to obtain, in case of no EMI, a safety margin
for PM exposed to Wi-Fi signals, which otherwise cannot be derived if using
commercial Wi-Fi equipment. The results of this study mitigate concerns about using
Wi-Fi devices close to PM: none of the PM tested exhibit any degradation of their
performance, even when exposed to RF field levels five times higher than those
allowed by current international regulation (20 W EIRP). In conclusion, Wi-Fi devices
do not pose risks of EMI to implantable PM. The immunity level of modern PM is
much higher than the transmitting power of RF devices operating at 2.4 GHz.



Naegeli B, Osswald S, Deola M, Burkart F, Intermittent pacemaker
dysfunction caused by digital mobile telephones. J Am Coll Cardiol
27(6):1471-1477, 1996.
OBJECTIVES: This study was designed to evaluate possible interactions between
digital mobile telephones and implanted pacemakers. BACKGROUND:
Electromagnetic fields may interfere with normal pacemaker function. Development
of bipolar sensing leads and modern noise filtering techniques have lessened this
problem. However, it remains unclear whether these features also protect from high
frequency noise arising from digital cellular phones. METHODS: In 39 patients with
an implanted pacemaker (14 dual-chamber [DDD], 8 atrial-synchronized ventricular-
Cindy Sage, Sage Associates                                                 19 January 2018


inhibited [VDD(R)] and 17 ventricular-inhibited [VVI(R)] pacemakers), four mobile
phones with different levels of power output (2 and 8 W) were tested in the standby,
dialing and operating mode. During continuous electrocardiographic monitoring, 672
tests were performed in each mode with the phones positioned over the pulse
generator, the atrial and the ventricular electrode tip. The tests were carried out at
different sensitivity settings and, where possible, in the unipolar and bipolar pacing
modes as well. RESULTS: In 7 (18%) of 39 patients, a reproducible interference was
induced during 26 (3.9%) of 672 tests with the operating phones in close proximity
(<10 cm) to the pacemaker. In 22 dual-chamber (14 DDD, 8 VDD) pacemakers, atrial
triggering occurred in 7 (2.8%) of 248 and ventricular inhibition in 5 (2.8%) of 176
tests. In 17 VVI(R) systems, pacemaker inhibition was induced in 14 (5.6%) of 248
tests. Interference was more likely to occur at higher power output of the phone and
at maximal sensitivity of the pacemakers (maximal vs. nominal sensitivity, 6% vs.
1.8% positive test results, p = 0.009). When the bipolar and unipolar pacing modes
were compared in the same patients, ventricular inhibition was induced only in the
unipolar mode (12.5% positive test results, p = 0.0003). CONCLUSION: Digital
mobile phones in close proximity to implanted pacemakers may cause intermittent
pacemaker dysfunction with inappropriate ventricular tracking and potentially
dangerous pacemaker inhibition.
Nowak B, Rosocha S, Zellerhoff C, Liebrich A, Himmrich E, Voigtlander T,
Meyer J, Is there a risk for interaction between mobile phones and single lead
VDD pacemakers? Pacing Clin Electrophysiol 19(10):1447-1450, 1996.
Mobile phones may cause pacemaker interference. Patients with a single lead VDD
pacemaker might be at special risk, since the atrial sensitivity is often programmed to
low (high sensitivity) threshold values and the majority of patients are pacemaker
dependent due to the underlying high degree AV block. We evaluated 31 patients
with three types of single lead VDD pacemakers: 12 Unity, 292-07 (Intermedics, Inc.);
10 Thera VDD, 8948 or 8968i (Medtronic, Inc.); and 9 Saphir 600 (Vitatron, Inc.) for
interference from a cellular mobile phone with a power of 2 W (D-net). For this
purpose, atrial and ventricular sensitivity settings were programmed to their most
sensitive values (A: 0.1-0.25 mV; V: 1.0 mV) and ventricular sensing was
programmed to unipolar. With the ECG continuously monitored, the phone's
extendable antenna was brought in direct contact with the patient's skin at the right
sternal border, with the tip of the antenna in skin contact just below the clavicle, within
5 cm of the pacemaker connector. Then multiple phases of phone calls were
performed, and the effects on the pacemakers recorded. In our group of patients with
three different types of single lead VDD pacemakers, no interference could be
detected using a 2-W mobile phone in the digital D-net. The programmed values
remained unchanged after the interference test. Therefore, the risk of interference
seems to be low for the VDD pacemakers tested, although our study design does not
allow to entirely exclude the possibility of interference from a mobile phone.
Occhetta E, Plebani L, Bortnik M, Sacchetti G, Trevi G, Implantable cardioverter
defibrillators and cellular telephones: is there any interference? Pacing Clin
Electrophysiol 22(7):983-989, 1999.
Cindy Sage, Sage Associates                                                19 January 2018


The aim of our study was to consider cellular telephone interference using different
cellular telephones and implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) models. Thirty (26
men, 4 women) patients with ICDs were considered during follow-up. The ICD
models were: Telectronics (7), CPI (7), Medtronic (7), Ventritex (5), and Ela Medical
(4). All patients were monitored with surface ECG; permanent telemetric endo-ECG
monitoring was activated. Then, the effect of two different European telephone
systems were tested: TACS system (Sony CM-R111, 2W power) and GSM system
(Motorola MG1-4A11, 2 W power). For both systems, the effect during call, reception,
active conversation (dialogue), and passive conversation (listening) were observed.
Cellular telephones were located first in contact with the programming head, then
near the leads system, and lastly, in the hands of the patient. At the end of the
evaluations, memories were interrogated again to check for false arrhythmia
detections. In five of these patients during arrhythmia induction at device implant (first
implant or ICD replacement), we also evaluated possible interference between
cellular telephones in the reception phase and the ventricular fibrillation detection
phase of the ICD. All evaluated models showed significant noise in the telemetric
transmission when the cellular telephone (both TACS and GSM) was located near
the ICD and the programming head; noise was particularly significant during call and
reception, in most cases leading to loss of telemetry. No false arrhythmia detections
have been observed during tests with cellular telephones located on the ICDs. During
tests performed with cellular telephones located near the leads or in the hands of
patients, no telemetric noises orfalse arrhythmia detections were observed. During
induced ventricularfibrillation and cellular telephones in reception mode near the
device, the arrhythmia recognition was always correct and not delayed. In
conclusion, present ICD models seem to be well protected from electromagnetic
interference caused by European cellular telephones (TACS and GSM), without
under-/oversensing of ventricular arrhythmias. However, cellular telephones disturb
telemetry when located near the programming head. ICD patients should not be
advised against the use of cellular telephones, but it has to be avoided during ICD
interrogation and programming.


Pakhomov AG, Dubovick BV, Degtyariov IG, Pronkevich AN, Microwave
influence on the isolated heart function: II. Combined effect of radiation
and some drugs. Bioelectromagnetics 16(4):250-254, 1995.
The combined effects of microwave radiation and some drugs were studied in an
isolated frog auricle preparation. The experiments established that exposure to
pulse-modulated 915 MHz microwaves for up to 40 min had no effect on either
the rate or the amplitude of spontaneous auricle twitches, unless the average
absorbed power was high enough to produce preparation heating. Treatment of
the preparation with saline containing (0.6-3.0) 10(-5) M of propranolol or (0.5-
1.5) 10(-7) M of atropine altered neither its pacemaker nor its contractile
functions; these drugs also had no effect when they were combined with
nonthermal microwave irradiation. Caffeine (1 mM) strongly increased the
average heart power, which was calculated as the product of twitch rate and
amplitude. The caffeine effect appeared to be significantly augmented (by about
Cindy Sage, Sage Associates                                                            19 January 2018


15%, P < 0.02) under exposure to burst-type pulsed microwaves (pulse width,
1.5 msec; pause, 2.5 msec; 8 pulses/burst, 16 bursts/s; average SAR, 8-10
W/kg). By itself, this modulation was not effective; the heating of the preparation
and saline during exposure was approximately 0.1 degrees C, which could not
account for the detected changes. The experimental results demonstrate that
caffeine treatment increases the microwave sensitivity of the frog auricle
preparation and reveals primarily subthreshold, nonthermal microwave effect.



This study is about pacemaker cell function in hearts rather than implanted devices
but is important.

Pakhomov AG, Mathur SP, Doyle J, Stuck BE, Kiel JL, Murphy MR,
Comparative effects of extremely high power microwave pulses and a brief CW
irradiation on pacemaker function in isolated frog heart
slices. Bioelectromagnetics 21(4):245-254, 2000.
   The existence of specific bioeffects due to high peak power microwaves and their potential health
   hazards are among the most debated but least explored problems in microwave biology. The
   present study attempted to reveal such effects by comparing the bioeffects of short trains of
   extremely high power microwave pulses (EHPP, 1 micros width, 250-350 kW/g, 9.2 GHz) with
   those of relatively low power pulses (LPP, 0.5-10 s width, 3-30 W/g, 9.2 GHz). EHPP train duration
   and average power were made equal to those of an LPP; therefore both exposure modalities
   produced the same temperature rise. Bioeffects were studied in isolated, spontaneously beating
   slices of the frog heart. In most cases, a single EHPP train or LPP immediately decreased the
   inter-beat interval (IBI). The effect was proportional to microwave heating, fully reversible, and
   easily reproducible. The magnitude and time course of EHPP- and LPP-induced changes always
   were the same. No delayed or irreversible effects of irradiation were observed. The same effect
   could be repeated in a single preparation numerous times with no signs of adaptation,
   sensitization, lasting functional alteration, or damage. A qualitatively different effect, namely, a
   temporary arrest of preparation beats, could be observed when microwave heating exceeded
   physiologically tolerable limits. This effect also did not depend on whether the critical temperature
   rise was produced by LPP or EHPP exposure. Within the studied limits, we found no indications of
   EHPP-specific bioeffects. EHPP- and LPP-induced changes in the pacemaker rhythm of isolated
   frog heart preparation were identical and could be entirely attributed to microwave heating.

Sakakibara Y, Mitsui T, Concerns about sources of electromagnetic
interference in patients with pacemakers. Jpn Heart J 40(6):737-743, 1999.
Electromagnetic noise is rapidly increasing in our environment so electromagnetic
interference (EMI) with pacemakers (PM) may become a more important problem
despite technological improvements in PM. The aim of this study was to evaluate the
kinds of EMI which affect the quality of life of PM patients. The participants (1,942
Japanese Association for Pacemaker Patients: Pacemaker-Tomonokai) were asked
to respond to a questionnaire about their major EMI troubles, and 1,567 patients
(80.7%) responded by mail. The main concerns were from mobile telephones (MT)
(39%), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) (17%), electronic kitchen appliances,
automobile engines and high voltage power lines. If possible, PM implantation sites
should be carefully selected not only according to the physician's convenience but
also considering information on each patient's habits and physical limitations.
Cindy Sage, Sage Associates                                              19 January 2018


Sanchez A, Ortega J, Lozano F, Munoz R, Moro C, [Electromagnetic
interference between automatic defibrillators and digital and analog cellular
telephones]. Rev Esp Cardiol 51(5):375-382, 1998. [Article in Spanish]
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Functional pacemaker interference by mobile
telephones has been described with analogical systems and with possible greater
influence, digital systems, including inhibition and inadequate pacing. The influence
of both system has not been extensively studied in patients with implantable
cardioverter defibrillators (ICD). PATIENTS AND METHODS: We studied the
influence of mobile phones, both digital and analogic network, on the performance of
several models of defibrillators, in a standardised test set up designed to provide high
sensitivity. The purpose of our study was to establish whether there are any
influences on ICD functions, both in in vivo and in in vitro models. Several mobile
phones, with different transmission powers, were moved towards the defibrillator and
the electrode, under continuous documentation of defibrillator sensing and
interrogation afterwards. The experimental model was performed with the aid of an
arrhythmia simulator (Intersim) and demo-defibrillators. The tests were repeated both
in and out of a solution of saline water with an impedance within normal human limits.
RESULTS: Partial loss of telemetry was found in 14 patients, 8 with analogical
phones and 6 with digital phones. Fourteen patients showed alterations only on the
surface electrocardiogram channel and five on the intracavitary channel. The same
results were reproduced in the in vitro model. However, the in vitro test allowed us to
simulate multiple ventricular arrhythmias, and demonstrate the normal sensing and
functioning of the defibrillator during a "spontaneous" arrhythmia. After testing, we
demonstrate that no real oversensing/undersensing was documented in any device.
There was no evidence of ICD reprogramming or pacing inhibition. In particular, no
inadequate therapies were delivered. CONCLUSIONS: a) in our series, we have not
demonstrated clinically significant electromagnetic interferences with mobile phones
of digital or analogical networks: b) the in vitro model allowed us to conclude that
even if a spontaneous arrhythmia appears, the function of the defibrillator is not
altered; c) the use of mobile phones seems to be safe for defibrillator patients, and d)
however, some basic rules, such as to maintain the phone at least 15 cm away from
the defibrillator, are advised.


Sanmartin M, Fernandez Lozano I, Marquez J, Antorrena I, Bautista A, Silva L,
Ortigosa J, de Artaza M, [The absence of interference between GSM mobile
telephones and implantable defibrillators: an in-vivo study. Groupe Systemes
Mobiles]. Rev Esp Cardiol 50(10):715-719, 1997. [Article in Spanish]
Introduction and Objectives: The electromagnetic field created by mobile telephones
can cause pacemaker dysfunction. Although implantable cardioverter defibrillators
are also susceptible to electromagnetic interference, few studies have addressed this
issue and compatibility with the GSM mode has not been tested. This study was
developed to detect possible "in vivo" interference between GSM mobile telephones
and implantable cardioverter defibrillators. Material and Methods: The study group is
composed of 30 patients with 8 different models of defibrillators. Twenty six had
Cindy Sage, Sage Associates                                                           19 January 2018


endocardial leads and 4 epicardial. Three GSM mobile phones were used: Siemens
S3 COM and Motorola 6200 in all cases and Ericsson GA 318 in one. The tests were
performed under continuous electrocardiographic monitoring. All therapies were
deactivated and sensitivities were set to maximal parameters. The telephones were
positioned in close contact to the defibrillator can and precordium, in two different
angles. Three situations were evaluated: calling, established contact for 15 seconds
and ringing. The protocol was repeated during pacing to assess the possibility of
pacemaker mode inhibition. RESULTS: No cases of electromagnetic interference
were observed. One patient presented non-sustained ventricular tachycardia
episodes during the tests that were detected by the defibrillator. Conclusions: These
results suggest that electromagnetic interference by GSM mobile phones are not a
probable cause of implantable defibrillators dysfunction.
Schlegel RE, Grant FH, Raman S, Reynolds D Electromagnetic compatibility
study of the in-vitro interaction of wireless phones with cardiac pacemakers.
Biomed Instrum Technol 32(6):645-655, 1998.
   This large-scale in-vitro investigation of the interaction between hand-held wireless phones and
   cardiac pacemakers tested 29 pacemaker models with five different phone standards. The phones
   were operational and suspended on a grid above a torso simulator filled with a saline bath with the
   pacemaker submerged at 0.5 cm. Testing consisted of 8,296 runs, during which any interactions
   detected were classified by type and regularity. Only a few pacemakers were responsible for a
   disproportionately large number of interactions. Likewise, interactions occurred during 21% of the
   tests using one particular phone technology, with little or no interaction resulting from use of the
   other standards. Other significant factors included the relative orientation of the phone and the
   pacemaker case, as well as the presence or absence of an injected ECG signal. The ECG signal
   facilitated observation of certain forms of interaction to the extent that this study indicates the
   importance of including an injected ECG signal in all testing. The study also supports the
   recommendation to maintain a separation distance of at least 6 inches between pacemakers and
   wireless phones. Each pacemaker reverted to its normal operation when the phone creating an
   interaction was turned off. This study may be useful in ongoing efforts to define test protocols,
   evaluate pacemaker designs, and mitigate interactions, perhaps providing the basis for future
   certification and screening efforts.

Sparks PB, Mond HG, Joyner KH, Wood MP, The safety of digital mobile
cellular telephones with minute ventilation rate adaptive pacemakers. Pacing
Clin Electrophysiol 19(10):1451-1455, 1996.
In vitro tests suggest that rate adaptive pacemakers using changes in transthoracic
impedance to vary pacing rate may be affected by digital mobile telephones.
Electromagnetic fields generated by digital mobile telephones (Global System for
Mobile [GSM]) represent a potential source of electromagnetic interference (EMI) for
the Telectronics META rate adaptive pacemakers, which use transthoracic
impedance as a sensor to determine changes in minute ventilation. Sixteen
implanted Telectronics META pulse generators were exposed to 25-W simulated
GSM transmissions (900-MHz carrier pulsed at 2, 8, and 217 Hz with a pulse width
of 0.6 ms) and the antenna of a 2-W digital mobile telephone (900-MHz, 217-Hz
pulse, 0.6-ms pulse width). The 12 dual and four single chamber devices were
programmed to maximum sensitivity and assessed in unipolar and bipolar settings
and rate adaptive and nonrate adaptive modes. In all cases of EMI, testing was
repeated at lower, more routinely set bipolar sensitivity levels. At maximum
Cindy Sage, Sage Associates                                               19 January 2018


sensitivity, 11 of 16 devices displayed no evidence of EMI. Brief ventricular triggering
occurred in 2, a brief pause in 1, a combination of both in 1, and a brief episode of
pacemaker-mediated tachycardia in 1. With pulse generators programmed to more
routine sensitivities, only one device displayed rare single beat ventricular triggering.
No changes in minute ventilation rate adaptive pacing were observed. At maximum
unipolar sensitivities, the META series of rate adaptive pacemakers are resistant to
clinically important EMI from digital mobile telephones. Set at routine sensitivities,
these devices perform reliably in the presence of digital mobile telephones.
Trigano AJ, Azoulay A, Rochdi M, Campillo, A Electromagnetic interference of
external pacemakers by walkie-talkies and digital cellular phones:
experimental study. Pacing Clin Electrophysiol 22(4 Pt 1):588-593, 1999.
A number of experimental and clinical studies have documented the risk
potential of interference with implanted pacemakers by various types of
cellular phones. Radiofrequency susceptibility of external medical equipment
has also been reported in experimental studies. The purpose of this
experimental study was to evaluate electromagnetic interference of external
pacemakers by walkie-talkies and digital cellular telephones. External bipolar
pacing was monitored using a digital oscilloscope to record pacemaker pulses
and electromagnetic interference separately. Tests with the walkie-talkie,
Private Mobile Radio (PMR) (160 MHz, 2.5 W) were conducted during the calling
phase. Tests with the cellular phones, global system for mobile communications
(GSM) (900 MHz, 2 W) and Digital Cellular System (DCS) (1,800 MHz, 1 W) were
conducted in the test mode. Nine widely used external pacemakers from four
manufacturers were tested. Various disturbances including pacing inhibition and
asynchronous pacing were observed in eight pacemakers by the PMR, in four by
the GSM phone, and in two by the DCS phone. The maximum distance that
interference persisted ranged from 10-200 cm. This experimental study shows a
potential risk of interference of external pacemakers by walkie-talkies and
cellular digital phones. Appropriate warnings should be issued against the
potentially serious risks of using communication devices in the vicinity of
acutely ill patients treated with temporary transvenous cardiac pacemakers.
Trigano A, Blandeau O, Dale C, Wong MF, Wiart J. Reliability of
electromagnetic filters of cardiac pacemakers tested by cellular telephone
ringing. Heart Rhythm. 2(8):837-841, 2005.
BACKGROUND: State-of-the art cardiac pacemakers are protected against
radiofrequency signals. Although there have been earlier clinical and in vitro reports
of cellular phone interference with implantable devices, only a few studies have been
performed in recent years. The ringing phase of digital GSM or PCS cellular phones
includes a brief period of peak radiated power. OBJECTIVES: This study tested the
protection offered by electromagnetic filters of cardiac pacemakers against cellular
phone ringing. METHODS: We performed 330 consecutive tests in 158 patients at
the time of routine examination in our pacemaker follow-up clinic. The programmed
parameters remained unchanged before testing. During electrocardiographic
monitoring, 2 single-band digital cellular phones consecutively placed over the
pacemaker pocket each received a call. The phone systems tested were 1) GSM at
Cindy Sage, Sage Associates                                              19 January 2018


a maximal power output of 2 W, operating on a 900 MHz carrier frequency, and 2)
PCS at a maximal output of 1 W, operating on a 1800 MHz carrier frequency.
RESULTS: Interference was noted in only 5 tests, due to interaction by the GSM
system with 4 unprotected pacemaker models. The GSM test was negative in 12
other tests of identical pulse generator models. The overall incidence of interference
was 1.5% of tests. CONCLUSIONS: Interference by cellular phone ringing occurred
only with unprotected pacemaker models. Standard programming of these
unprotected models was associated with a low incidence of interference.


Trigano A, Blandeau O, Dale C, Wong MF, Wiart J.Risk of cellular phone
interference with an implantable loop recorder. Int J Cardiol.116(1):126-130,
2007.
This study examined the risk of cellular phone ringing interference with implantable
loop recorders (ILR). The technical manual of ILR warns of potential interference by
cellular phone in close proximity to the implanted device, corrupting the data stored in
memory or causing inappropriate device operation. The ringing phase of a digital
Global System for Mobile Communication (GSM) or Personal Communication
Services (PCS) cellular phone includes a brief burst of peak emitted power. To
obviate the risk of dysfunction in recipients of implanted ILRs, the testing was
performed with externally applied devices. The ILR was positioned in the left
parasternal region and the telemetry wand removed after regular programming.
Digital cellular telephones were placed over the device at a 1-cm distance and calls
were placed. The phone systems tested were single- or dual-band receivers. The
GSM used a maximal power output of 2 W, operating on a 900 MHz carrier
frequency, and the PCS a maximal output of 1 W, operating on a 1800 MHz carrier
frequency. The device activator was used to store the episodes encompassing the
tests. Sixty nine tests were performed in 45 patients. In 61 tests, high-frequency
polymorphic artifacts were visible on manually activated recordings, beginning a few
seconds before the first audible ringing tone and persisting throughout the ringing
phase. Cellular phone ringing in close proximity to an externally applied ILR caused
bursts of high-frequency signals during electrocardiogram monitoring, without
causing permanent device dysfunction or reprogramming. Cellular telephones are a
potential source of electrocardiographic artifacts on ILR recordings.
Vergassola R, Borgioli A, Chiodi L, Rossi D, Fazi A, Lebrun E, Vaccari M,
[Changes in pacemakers and the wearers of pacemakers as a result of the use
of different electromagnetic energy sources]. Minerva Cardioangiol 42(1-2):27-
32, 1994.
[Over the past decade there have been considerable advances in cardiac
electrostimulation technologies. However, there are still reports of electromagnetic
interference with pacemakers and pacemaker patients. We have studied the effects
of various electromagnetic sources (short-wave diathermy, electrosurgical knives,
electrotherapy and radiofrequencies) on both humans and animals. The results of the
studies were completely negative and, therefore, we are convinced that today's
pacemakers are much more reliable and hence less subject to interference from
Cindy Sage, Sage Associates                                                      19 January 2018


external electromagnetic sources. We performed the following tests: (a) Short-wave
diathermy: various electrode positions in pigs and 8 patients with pacemakers. (b)
Electrosurgical knives: several tests on pigs with unipolar electrosurgical knife; 6 tests
on humans during automatic defibrillator implantation using two-pole electrosurgical
knives; 23 pacemaker patients underwent abdominal surgery (3 inguinal hernias, 12
gastric resections; 6 cholecystotomies, 2 aortic aneurysms-with two-pole
electrosurgical knives). (c) Electrotherapy (TENS): on pigs. (d) Radiofrequency (RF)
for transcatheter ablation-several tests on pigs.
Virtanen H, Keshvari J, Lappalainen R. The effect of authentic metallic implants
on the SAR distribution of the head exposed to 900, 1800 and 2450 MHz dipole
near field. Phys Med Biol. 52(5):1221-1236, 2007
As the use of radiofrequency (RF) electromagnetic (EM) fields has increased
along with increased use of wireless communication, the possible related health
risks have also been widely discussed. One safety aspect is the interaction of
medical implants and RF devices like mobile phones. In the literature, effects on
active implants like pacemakers have been discussed but the studies of passive
metallic (i.e. conductive) implants are rare. However, some studies have shown
that the EM power absorption in tissues may be enhanced due to metallic
implants. In this study, the effect of authentic passive metallic implants in the
head region was examined. A half-wave dipole antenna was used as an
exposure source and the specific absorption rate (SAR, W kg(-1)) in the near
field was studied numerically. The idea was to model the presumably worst
cases of most common implants in an accurate MRI-based phantom. As
exposure frequencies GSM (900 and 1800 MHz) and UMTS (2450 MHz) regions
were considered. The implants studied were skull plates, fixtures, bone plates
and ear rings. The results indicate that some of the implants, under very rare
exposure conditions, may cause a notable enhancement in peak mass averaged
SAR.
Wilke A, Grimm W, Funck R, Maisch B, Influence of D-net (European GSM
-Standard) cellular phones on pacemaker function in 50 patients with
permanent pacemakers. Pacing Clin Electrophysiol 19(10):1456-1458, 1996.

The widespread use of cellular phones in the last years has prompted some
recent studies to suggest an interference of pacemaker function by cellular
phone usage. To determine the risk of pacemaker patients using D-net cellular
phones, we tested 50 patients with permanent pacemakers after routine pacemaker
check by short phone calls using a cellular phone (Ericsson, D-net, frequency
890-915 MHz, digital information coding, equivalent to the European Groupe
Systemes Mobiles standard). A six-channel surface ECG was continuously recorded
from each patient to detect any interactions between pacemakers and cellular
phones. Phone calls were repeated during the following pacemaker settings: (1)


preexisting setting; (2) minimum ventricular rate of 90 beats/min and
preexisting sensitivity; and (3) minimum ventricular rate of 90 beats/min and
maximum sensitivity without T wave oversensing. Only 2 (4%) of 50 patients
Cindy Sage, Sage Associates                                                 19 January 2018


repeatedly showed intermittent pacemaker inhibition during calls with the
cellular phone. Both pacemakers had unipolar sensing. Therefore, although
interactions between cellular phone use and pacemaker function appear to be
rare in our study, pacemaker dependent patients in particular should avoid the
use of cellular phones.

Yeolekar ME, Sharma A. Use of mobile phones in ICU--why not ban? J Assoc
Physicians India. 52:311-313, 2004.
Due to the rapid growth of mobile telecommunications it is predicted that by 2005
there will be 1.6 billion mobile phone users worldwide. The usage of cellphones in
Intensive Care Units carries with it a high incidence of interference with a number of
medical devices like implantable defibrillators, cardioverters, pacemakers, monitors
and other important devices like ventilators. It is in this context that this article will
throw a light on complications of cellphones use in the Intensive Care Units and
various strategies that can be taken to restrict their use in the Intensive Care Units.
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers

IEEE Eng Med Biol Mag. 1998 May-Jun;17(3):111-4.

Radiofrequency interference with medical devices. A technical
information statement.
[No authors listed]

Abstract

The past few years have seen increased reports that medical devices, such as pacemakers, apnea
monitors, electrically powered wheelchairs, etc., have failed to operate correctly because of interference
from various emitters of radiofrequency energy. This condition is called radiofrequency interference (RFI).
The consequences of these failures range from inconvenience to serious injuries and death. Reasons for
this problem are twofold: 1) increasing numbers of electronically controlled medical devices with
inadequate electronic protection against RFI, and 2) a significant increase in the number of RF sources in
the environment. Medical devices are widely used outside the hospital and may be attached to, or
implanted in, patients. Portable wireless communications equipment, including cellular phones, handheld
transceivers, and vehicle-mounted transceivers, comprise one of the largest sources of RFI. Some
medical devices are especially sensitive to the type of digital modulation that some of the wireless
communications devices utilize. The prevailing international standard for the RF immunity of medical
devices is the 1993 revision of the International Electro-technical Commission (IEC) Standard IEC 60601-
1-2. This standard sets a minimum immunity level of 3 volts per meter (V/m) in the 26-1000 MHz
frequency range. For non-life supporting devices, testing is required only at the specific frequencies of
27.12, 40.68, and 915 MHz. Technology exists to protect, or "harden," most medical devices from RF
fields that are much more intense than the 3 V/m level specified in present RFI standards. Most of these
techniques, including shielding, grounding, and filtering, are not costly if they are incorporated into the
initial design of the electronics system. COMAR recommends that the various parties involved in the
manufacture and use of RFI-prone medical devices take steps to avoid serious RFI problems that may
lead to safety hazards. Medical device manufacturers should design and test their products to ensure
conformance with current RFI standards and educate the users of their devices about the possible
symptoms of potential RFI. If there exists the possibility of RFI problems to medical devices, steps should
be taken to ensure that all sources of RF energy be kept at a sufficient distance.

PMID:
        9604711

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9604711
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:48 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Kelly Germa <kelly.germa@gmail.com>
Sent:                             Sunday, May 20, 2018 1:27 PM
To:                               Council, City
Cc:                               Clerk, City; Architectural Review Board
Subject:                          Cell Phone Tower Special Meeting


Hi Council members,

We elected you to protect our interests. We do not want unsightly and noisy cell phone equipment in Palo Alto. We
have long‐standing ordinances against this. Verizon has the money to underground it and they should. If you have ever
driven around Scottsdale, AZ, there are no wires and it is refreshingly starkly beautiful there. You can walk and drive
happily through the town and appreciate the flowers, trees, and sky.

You need to promote the same well‐being in Palo Alto. There is no reason for you to allow these cell phone towers in
our beautiful town. Verizon is being stopped in NY and other places and you too should stop their aggressive tactics for
their own profit at the expense of your constituents.

Be reasonable and fair to the people who elected you! You can allow the equipment, but just require it be underground
and not violate the current noise, aesthetics, and other ordinances. All but the antenna can be put underground and
Verizon has the money to pay for it.

We have owned our house in Midtown on David Avenue for almost 20 years. We bought it specifically because we think
it is the quietest place in Palo Alto, just far enough from Oregon Expressway and Middlefield to not hear the traffic
noise. Now you are contemplating allowing ugly pole equipment to be very very close to our house making noise all the
time! This will drop the value of our house by millions to us and may even force us to move.

Please do not be pushed around by cell phone companies who do not care about quiet enjoyment for residents. Our
lives are so busy and noisy and stressed that we need our Council to just please protect the peace. You do not have to
say yes to this and shouldn’t. Thank you very much.

Kelly and Eric Germa
650‐544‐5711

Sent from my iPad




                                                            1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:48 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Leora Tanjuatco <leora.tanjuatco@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Sunday, May 20, 2018 10:00 AM
To:                             Council, City; Atkinson, Rebecca
Subject:                        Wireless antennas



Hello Palo Alto city council,

I'm writing to support the proposed wireless cell antennas throughout Palo Alto. I use my phone for everything,
from streaming sports to work emails and conference calls. We can't actually be the center of innovation if our
calls keep dropping, right?

I've heard that some people want to put the cell antennas underground, which would be more expensive and
would probably mean a lot of construction in our neighborhoods. I don't think it's a good idea. Also, what if we
have floods? Then our underground cell antennas would mean that we can't stream sports from our phones
when we're stuck inside because it's raining!

Anyways, please build more cell antennas in Palo Alto. We need them.

Thank you for your consideration,

Leora Tanjuatco Ross
215 El Verano




                                                        2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:48 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                               Pat Marriott <patmarriott@sbcglobal.net>
Sent:                               Sunday, May 20, 2018 11:02 AM
To:                                 Council, City
Subject:                            cell phone towers



Council Members:
PLEASE overturn the decision to allow Verizon to install their cell tower equipment throughout Palo Alto’s residential
neighborhoods.

I used to be skeptical of warnings about cell phones. I thought they were spread by luddites and conspiracy
theorists. Then I read this detailed article:

https://www.thenation.com/article/how‐big‐wireless‐made‐us‐think‐that‐cell‐phones‐are‐safe‐a‐special‐investigation/
The disinformation campaign—and massive radiation increase—behind the 5G rollout.
EXCERPT: Like their tobacco and fossil‐fuel brethren, wireless executives have chosen not to publicize what their own
scientists have said about the risks of their products. On the contrary, the industry—in America, Europe, and Asia—has
spent untold millions of dollars in the past 25 years proclaiming that science is on its side, that the critics are quacks, and
that consumers have nothing to fear.
So, what about the cell phone towers?

http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2018/01/25/consumerwatch‐5g‐cellphone‐towers‐signal‐renewed‐concerns‐over‐
impacts‐on‐health/
EXCERPT: Dr. Gunnar Heuser conducted a study on these firefighters and saw that their brain scans showed cell damage
even from low‐level RF. “We found abnormal brain function in all of the firefighters we examined,” Heuser said.

A California bill put fire stations exempt from cell towers, not because of health concerns, but because firefighters have
a strong lobby!

Don’t residents deserve the same protection?

           Pat Marriott Palo Alto property owner




                                                               3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:48 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Cheryl Lilienstein <clilienstein@me.com>
Sent:                             Sunday, May 20, 2018 2:06 PM
To:                               Council, City
Subject:                          Verizon


Dear City Council,
Why would you even consider allowing Verizon to add more unnecessary infrastructure to our already existing above‐
ground infrastructure messes? You are responsible to protect public health and safety, thus you need to establish and
execute a plan to underground infrastructure everywhere in the city. We need our systems to be running in case of
disaster. Fires, storms, and earthquakes take down poles.

If the appeals about this this offers you an opportunity to re‐establish a plan to underground, please start that process
up again. Everyone deserves a “wireless” environment free from the visual and physical debris of poles and overhead
wires. Without undergrounding, as the city densifies, the demand for more electricity and connectivity will cause our city
to become like Berkeley. Do you find that attractive?

Sincerely,
Cheryl Lilienstein




                                                            4
                                                                                      COUNCIL MEETING
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:48 AM
                                                                                      ✔
                                                                                              05/21/2018
                                                                                          Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                                     6
Carnahan, David

From:                               Robert Neff <rmrneff@sonic.net>
Sent:                               Sunday, May 20, 2018 2:09 PM
To:                                 Council, City
Subject:                            Support cellphone towers on street poles in my neighborhood


Dear City Council,

I support the installation of additional cellphone equipment atop the existing telephone poles in my neighborhood, and
specifically the one on Loma Verde closest to my home. Perhaps my cellphone will start to receive calls while I am
indoors!

The proposed design looks good to me.

Did the street poles, with those wooden cross beams and their big electrical transformers ever go through a review by
the ARB? They are ugly as heck. The telephone wires from the street pole in my backyard are a visual blight, and don't
get me started on the droopy cable TV infrastructure. But electrical, telephone, cell phone, and even cable TV
infrastructure are a cost of civilization as we know it, and I can embrace all of these.

Please permit this new, beneficial infrastructure on the tops of our utility poles.

Thank you for your service to the city of Palo Alto, and I hope this item does not go on too long in your meeting.

Robert Neff
Emerson Street (near Loma Verde)
robert@neffs.net




                                                              5
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:48 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Lily Huang Liao <lilyhuangliao@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Sunday, May 20, 2018 2:46 PM
To:                             Council, City
Cc:                             Clerk, City; Architectural Review Board
Subject:                        Cell towers in Palo Alto residential neighborhood area



Dear Council members,

How are you? I am writing to you asking your votes to overturn the Director’s decision of allowing cell towers
in residential area.

1. Verizon’s on-the-pole installations do not comply with Palo Alto’s aesthetics, noise and other ordinances;
2. Verizon’s claims that it cannot underground its equipment are not credible; and
3. Approval should be granted to Verizon to install its cell towers only on the conditions that: a) the company
locate all of its equipment, except the antenna, underground, in flush-to-the-ground vaults with no
protuberances; and b) none of its equipment may exceed the noise levels permitted by Palo Alto’s ordinances.

Your favourite actions will be greatly appreciated!

Best Regards,
Lily Huang




                                                         6
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:48 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Stephanie Beach <stephaniebeach@mac.com>
Sent:                           Sunday, May 20, 2018 3:19 PM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        Cell Towers in Residential neighborhoods



Dear City Council,
Please register my full support of installing cell towers and/or equipment in our neighborhoods. For a
community that has been the birthplace of Silicon Valley we are woefully behind in digital connectivity and this
is a step in the right direction.
Thank you.
Stephanie Beach


Stephanie Beach
stephaniebeach@mac.com
854 Clara Drive
Palo Alto, CA 94303
650-856-0278 (h)
650-387-9507 (c)




                                                       7
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:48 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Chris Holt <chholt@att.net>
Sent:                              Sunday, May 20, 2018 3:20 PM
To:                                Council, City; Clerk, City
Subject:                           Verizon




This type of equipment should not be placed in residential streets. Find more suitable places closer to business districts
and strip shopping centers. Build a sell tower where the Audi dealership is they have dreadful cell reception. Some
neighborhoods have enough high voltage wires, cable wires which btw the cable companies never remove old cables
when a house is placing their service.

C. Holt




                                                             8
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:48 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Ann Bowers <asbowers@noycefdn.org>
Sent:                              Sunday, May 20, 2018 4:02 PM
To:                                Council, City
Cc:                                Architectural Review Board
Subject:                           over turn the directors decision to allow Verizon to install equipment in residential
                                   areas.


please overturn the directors decision to allow Version to install equipment in residential areas!!
I live right next to one of those poles . And am not at all happy that you would allow Verizon to install this equipment.
They will gain from putting in more equipment but the residents will not!!




                                                             9
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:48 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Tina Chow <chow_tina@yahoo.com>
Sent:                         Sunday, May 20, 2018 5:05 PM
To:                           Council, City
Cc:                           Clerk, City; Architectural Review Board
Subject:                      please overturn Verizon decision



Dear City Council,

I’m writing to ask you to overturn the decision to allow Verizon to install small cell towers in Palo Alto
neighborhoods. As a resident, I see no added benefit of these towers. Cell coverage is already great
and people mostly use wifi (not 4G) in their homes. In addition these towers create problems
with aesthetics and noise, not to mention decreasing property values for the homes located near
these new antennas (due to public awareness of health effects from cell tower electromagnetic
fields). Verizon is claiming that they are unable to put their equipment underground - but this is
doable, they just don’t want to spend the money! Verizon’s claims that these additional small towers
are necessary are also hard to believe, and the rent they would pay to the city is unreasonably tiny
(why?).

These proposed towers will have a big negative impact on the quality of life in Palo Alto. I urge you to
over turn the decision and to not allow Verizon to proceed with its plans. In addition, I urge the City
Council to put in place strong city ordinances to prevent this and similar future proposals from being
allowed without long-term planning and safety studies. Other cities have achieved this and we can
too.

Sincerely,
Tina Chow




                                                       10
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:48 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Alice Holmes <AHolmes@renault-handley.com>
Sent:                              Sunday, May 20, 2018 7:53 PM
To:                                Council, City
Cc:                                Council, City; Architectural Review Board
Subject:                           Verizon


Dear City Council members:

I have written you several times before about the Verizon installation of cell towers in residential neighborhoods. This is
one last plea to you to overturn the decision made by the FORMER Planning Director to allow Verizon to install their
equipment on utility poles in residential neighborhoods. Please do not let this decision stand. We will have to live in the
neighborhoods cluttered with this ugly, noisy and potentially hazardous equipment for a long time…and the person who
made the decision is no longer part of the Palo Alto decision making community.

Act in haste, repent in leisure. Please spend more time to consider the alternatives and at the very least, to require
Verizon to spend their money to underground the cell equipment to save the visual and auditory serenity of our
neighborhoods.

Please reconsider this Verizon decision. And let’s go back to the long term plan to underground our utilities to beautify
our neighborhoods…not make them unsightly with this above ground equipment mess started by AT&T and continued
by Verizon.

I hope to attend the meeting tomorrow to show my support for the United Neighbor’s appeal of the decision and to
show you that many citizens of Palo Alto do not support the decision made by the FORMER Planning Director.

Thank you for your time and for your service to our community.

With thanks,

Alice Holmes
Resident of Palo Alto since 1986




                                                            11
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:48 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Anne Lum <annelum@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Sunday, May 20, 2018 9:20 PM
To:                             Council, City; Clerk, City; Architectural Review Board
Subject:                        Vote NO on Verizon Cell Towers



Dear City Council,


Please overturn the decision to allow Verizon to install hundreds of pounds of ugly, noisy and potentially
hazardous equipment on poles within a few yards of Palo Alto homes.
   1. Verizon’s on-the-pole installations do not comply with Palo Alto’s aesthetics, noise and other
       ordinances;
   2. Verizon’s claims that it cannot underground its equipment are not credible; and
   3. Approval should be granted to Verizon to install its cell towers only on the conditions that: a) the
       company locate all of its equipment, except the antenna, underground, in flush-to-the-ground vaults with
       no protuberances; and b) none of its equipment may exceed the noise levels permitted by Palo Alto’s
       ordinances.

Please listen to your constituents and DO NOT allow installations of these intrusive cell towers in our
neighborhoods.

Sent from my iPhone




                                                          12
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:48 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                Will Reister <willreister@gmail.com>
Sent:                                Sunday, May 20, 2018 9:41 PM
To:                                  Architectural Review Board; Clerk, City; Council, City
Subject:                             Vote NO on Verizon Cell Towers


Dear City Council,

Please overturn the decision to allow Verizon to install hundreds of pounds of ugly, noisy and potentially hazardous equipment
on poles within a few yards of Palo Alto homes.
    1. Verizon’s on-the-pole installations do not comply with Palo Alto’s aesthetics, noise and other ordinances;
    2. Verizon’s claims that it cannot underground its equipment are not credible; and
    3. Approval should be granted to Verizon to install its cell towers only on the conditions that: a) the company locate all of
        its equipment, except the antenna, underground, in flush-to-the-ground vaults with no protuberances; and b) none of its
        equipment may exceed the noise levels permitted by Palo Alto’s ordinances.

Please listen to your constituents and DO NOT allow installations of these intrusive cell towers in our neighborhoods.




                                                                13
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:48 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                Evan Lum <evansfacetime@gmail.com>
Sent:                                Sunday, May 20, 2018 10:08 PM
To:                                  Council, City
Subject:                             Vote NO on Verizon Cell Towers


Dear City Council,

Please overturn the decision to allow Verizon to install hundreds of pounds of ugly, noisy and potentially hazardous equipment
on poles within a few yards of Palo Alto homes.
    1. Verizon’s on-the-pole installations do not comply with Palo Alto’s aesthetics, noise and other ordinances;
    2. Verizon’s claims that it cannot underground its equipment are not credible; and
    3. Approval should be granted to Verizon to install its cell towers only on the conditions that: a) the company locate all of
        its equipment, except the antenna, underground, in flush-to-the-ground vaults with no protuberances; and b) none of its
        equipment may exceed the noise levels permitted by Palo Alto’s ordinances.

Please listen to your constituents and DO NOT allow installations of these intrusive cell towers in our neighborhoods.




                                                                14
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:48 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                Yair Sterental <ysterental@gmail.com>
Sent:                                Sunday, May 20, 2018 10:11 PM
To:                                  Council, City; Clerk, City; Architectural Review Board
Subject:                             Vote NO on Verizon Cell Towers


Dear City Council,

Please overturn the decision to allow Verizon to install hundreds of pounds of ugly, noisy and potentially hazardous equipment
on poles within a few yards of Palo Alto homes.
    1. Verizon’s on-the-pole installations do not comply with Palo Alto’s aesthetics, noise and other ordinances;
    2. Verizon’s claims that it cannot underground its equipment are not credible; and
    3. Approval should be granted to Verizon to install its cell towers only on the conditions that: a) the company locate all of
        its equipment, except the antenna, underground, in flush-to-the-ground vaults with no protuberances; and b) none of its
        equipment may exceed the noise levels permitted by Palo Alto’s ordinances.

Please listen to your constituents and DO NOT allow installations of these intrusive cell towers in our neighborhoods.




                                                                15
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:48 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Grant Lum <glgrantlum@gmail.com>
Sent:                              Sunday, May 20, 2018 10:34 PM
To:                                Council, City; Clerk, City; Architectural Review Board
Subject:                           Vote NO on Verizon Cell Towers


Dear City Council,

Please overturn the decision to allow Verizon to install hundreds of pounds of ugly, noisy and potentially hazardous
equipment on poles within a few yards of Palo Alto homes.
    1. Verizon’s on-the-pole installations do not comply with Palo Alto’s aesthetics, noise, and other ordinances;
    2. Verizon’s claims that it cannot underground its equipment are not credible; and
    3. Approval should be granted to Verizon to install its cell towers only on the conditions that: a) the company locates
       all of its equipment, except the antenna, underground, in flush-to-the-ground vaults with no protuberances; and b)
       none of its equipment may exceed the noise levels permitted by Palo Alto’s ordinances.

Please listen to your constituents and DO NOT allow installations of these intrusive cell towers in our neighborhoods.

Sincerely,
Grant Lum




                                                             16
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:48 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                Kaitlyn Nakamura <kaitlyn.nakamura.42@gmail.com>
Sent:                                Sunday, May 20, 2018 11:13 PM
To:                                  Council, City; Clerk, City; Architectural Review Board
Subject:                             Vote NO on Verizon Cell Towers


Dear City Council,

Please overturn the decision to allow Verizon to install hundreds of pounds of ugly, noisy and potentially hazardous equipment
on poles within a few yards of Palo Alto homes.
    1. Verizon’s on-the-pole installations do not comply with Palo Alto’s aesthetics, noise and other ordinances;
    2. Verizon’s claims that it cannot underground its equipment are not credible; and
    3. Approval should be granted to Verizon to install its cell towers only on the conditions that: a) the company locate all of
        its equipment, except the antenna, underground, in flush-to-the-ground vaults with no protuberances; and b) none of its
        equipment may exceed the noise levels permitted by Palo Alto’s ordinances.

Please listen to your constituents and DO NOT allow installations of these intrusive cell towers in our neighborhoods.




--
Kaitlyn Nakamura
kaitlyn.nakamura.42@gmail.com
(650)- 739- 5286




                                                                17
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:49 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                Daniel Lacy <daniellacy861@gmail.com>
Sent:                                Sunday, May 20, 2018 10:10 PM
To:                                  Council, City
Subject:                             Civilian Request


Dear City Council,

Please overturn the decision to allow Verizon to install hundreds of pounds of ugly, noisy and potentially hazardous equipment
on poles within a few yards of Palo Alto homes.
    1. Verizon’s on-the-pole installations do not comply with Palo Alto’s aesthetics, noise and other ordinances;
    2. Verizon’s claims that it cannot underground its equipment are not credible; and
    3. Approval should be granted to Verizon to install its cell towers only on the conditions that: a) the company locate all of
        its equipment, except the antenna, underground, in flush-to-the-ground vaults with no protuberances; and b) none of its
        equipment may exceed the noise levels permitted by Palo Alto’s ordinances.

Please listen to your constituents and DO NOT allow installations of these intrusive cell towers in our neighborhoods.




                                                                1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:50 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Dan Adams <dan_adams@alumni.stanford.edu>
Sent:                            Monday, May 21, 2018 12:39 AM
To:                              Council, City; Architectural Review Board; Clerk, City
Subject:                         Fwd: pole-top cell equipment: would you accept one on the corner of your lot?



Dear City Council, ARB members, and City Clerk,

I understand the former Planning Director's decision regarding Verizon and pole-mounted communications
equipment will be discussed again in response to the appeal from United Neighbors. I encourage you to require
the communication companies to provide better solutions for our neighborhoods even if the costs are higher to
these companies. In particular, the noise from what I presume are the cooling fans in the current installations in
our neighborhood disturb the peace and quiet for those who come within 30 or 40 feet of these installations.
While the noise is not loud, it is very noticeable, and is particularly annoying during the quiet morning and
evening times. Zero-noise systems must be possible and should be required. It wouldn't hurt to eliminate the
eye-sore aspects of the pole-mounted systems as well.

Regards,

Dan Adams
3550 Whitsell Ave
Palo Alto


---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Dan Adams <dan_adams@alumni.stanford.edu>
Date: Mon, Mar 5, 2018 at 4:48 PM
Subject: pole-top cell equipment: would you accept one on the corner of your lot?
To: arb@cityofpaloalto.org, city.council@cityofpaloalto.org


Hello members of the ARB and City Council,

I understand there is now a proposal to remove the Architectural Review Board from the process of approving
the deployment of pole-top cell equipment in Palo Alto neighborhoods. If this is true, it is imperative to add to
the approval process some other reviewing body which can represent the interests of those who would have to
live, on a daily basis, with the noise, eye-soreness (made-up word, but seemingly appropriate for this issue), and
unknown effects of EM radiation from the pole-top equipment.

If one of these units was to be deployed on a pole which was on the edge of your lot, would you willingly
accept this? Would you be happy to have a new source of white noise always audible on your property, to enjoy
when you are sitting out in your yard on a quiet spring day?

Instead of accepting more of these things into our neighborhoods, please push the utilities to come up with a
solution which is appropriate for use in residential areas.


I wrote the following last year and am including this text again, for reference.
                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:50 AM

To the ARP and City Council on Dec 3, 2017:

I believe there must be a better way to handle cell reception problems rather than putting noisy, ugly equipment
teetering above people's houses and sidewalks. We should push the telecoms to use other means which don't
intrude on the neighborhoods.

In many of Palo Alto's neighborhoods, the rare moments of wonderful quiet (already rare and sandwiched
between traffic noise, airplane noise and other noises) pull us back to a feeling of calm and provides a little
break from the energy and bustle of daily routines. The pole-top cell equipment cooling fans seem to run
constantly, from what I can tell from the units I run by in our neighborhood. From what I have experienced, the
sound is noticeably audible from a distance of about 25 feet. The white noise is certainly audible when walking
by, and must also be audible in the yards. It seems likely the noise can be heard in the homes of the properties
where the equipment is located, at least if the windows are open. While the sound level probably meets the city
noise ordinances in terms of measured dB above ambient, the quality of the sound is very different from quiet
ambient noise and so is certainly noise pollution which should be kept out of residential neighborhoods.

If you are considering allowing Verizon and others mount these devices on poles, please do this on condition
they find a way to use passive cooling rather than fans. Even better, please find other solutions which support
cell reception but don't degrade the neighborhood environments.

These devices in our neighborhood also look terrible - like a ridiculous, top-heavy, off-balance-and-leaning,
patched-up, add-on, ill-considered solution. With our property values and taxes, we should pass some of the
cost to the companies and challenge them aggressively to come up with a solution which looks and sound good,
not terrible. We in Palo Alto seem to think good products and good design are important. So why not hold the
telecom providers to high standards?


Regards,

Dan Adams and Star Teachout

3550 Whitsell Ave
Palo Alto, CA




                                                        2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:50 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Robert Lum <outrageouslums@gmail.com>
Sent:                          Monday, May 21, 2018 12:00 AM
Cc:                            Council, City; Clerk, City; Architectural Review Board
Subject:                       Vote NO on Verizon Cell Towers




       Dear City Council,


       Please overturn the decision to allow Verizon to install hundreds of pounds of ugly, noisy and
       potentially hazardous equipment on poles within a few yards of Palo Alto homes.
          1. Verizon’s on-the-pole installations do not comply with Palo Alto’s aesthetics, noise and
              other ordinances;
          2. Verizon’s claims that it cannot underground its equipment are not credible; and
          3. Approval should be granted to Verizon to install its cell towers only on the conditions
              that: a) the company locate all of its equipment, except the antenna, underground, in
              flush-to-the-ground vaults with no protuberances; and b) none of its equipment may
              exceed the noise levels permitted by Palo Alto’s ordinances.

       Please listen to your constituents and DO NOT allow installations of these intrusive cell towers
       in our neighborhoods.

       Robert Lum




                                                         3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 8:51 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Nicholas Forlenza <forlenza1@me.com>
Sent:                              Monday, May 21, 2018 8:38 AM
To:                                Council, City
Cc:                                Clerk, City; Architectural Review Board
Subject:                           Verizon Cell Towers


Dear All,

As tonight’s City Council meeting draws near, I feel compelled to email you, again, regarding the possible installment of
ugly, noisy, and potentially hazardous cell tower equipment in our residential neighborhoods. I am asking you to
overturn this decision based on the following. First of all, these on‐the‐pole installations do not comply with Palo Alto's
aesthetics and ordinances. Second, Verizon’s claims that the equipment cannot be installed underground are simply not
credible. They have successfully vaulted their equipment in other cities and Palo Alto has undergrounded electrical
utilities under the same conditions. Any approval of installation should be granted only if the company locates its
equipment underground, with flush to the ground vaults, and no protuberances except for the antenna. Also, all
equipment should comply with Palo Alto’s noise ordinances.

Please consider this decision thoughtfully. Any installation of ugly, noisy, and possibly unsafe cell tower equipment on
utility poles, could potentially ruin our beautiful, quiet, and safe city. Thanks for listening.

Sharon Forlenza
2030 Webster Street




                                                             1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 3:52 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                                     Suzanne Keehn <dskeehn@pacbell.net>
Sent:                                     Monday, May 21, 2018 2:00 PM
To:                                       Council, City; Clerk, City; Architectural Review Board
Subject:                                  Cell Towers



Greetings Palo Alto City Council,

I urge you to put the health of our community before Verizon's cell towers. There are
many
health issues, with which I hope you all have educated yourselves. I will send some
links,
one of which is Palo Alto and the decline of property values near these towers.

Also if we, the city, is serious about putting the electric wires underground, as we did on
Orme St. years ago, will be made impossible when Verizon adds all the other equipment
to the poles.

Property Values Declining Near Cell Towers



     Property Values Declining Near Cell Towers
     When it comes to cell phone towers, there is increasingly the perception
     that a family does not want to live nex...




Please overturn the decision to allow Verizon to install hundreds of pounds of ugly, noisy and
potentially hazardous equipment on poles within a few yards of our homes.




   1. Verizon’s on-the-pole installations do not comply with Palo Alto’s aesthetics, noise and other
      ordinances;
   2. Verizon’s claims that it cannot underground its equipment are not credible; and
   3. Approval should be granted to Verizon to install its cell towers only on the conditions that: a)
      the company locate all of its equipment, except the antenna, underground, in flush-to-the-
      ground vaults with no protuberances; and b) none of its equipment may exceed the noise
      levels permitted by Palo Alto’s ordinances.

 Verizon's complaint about it being too expensive to put the equipment underground is
bogus for
a multi million dollar company.
                                                                           1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 3:52 PM


"First Do No Harm"

Thank You,
Suzanne Keehn
4076 Orme St. 94306




                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 3:52 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                              rwen1234@gmail.com
Sent:                              Monday, May 21, 2018 2:40 PM
To:                                Council, City
Cc:                                City.Cleark@cityofpaloaloto.org; Architectural Review Board
Subject:                           Please overturn the decision to allow Verizon to install the wireless facility on utility
                                   poles


Dear Councils;

We are living at 2796 Louis Road, Palo Alto closed to the utility pole #2461 (Node #130) where Verizon planed to install
wireless communication facility. We strongly ask Palo Alto Councils overturn the decision to allow Verizon to install the
equipment on utility poles within Mid‐Town.

    1. We strongly oppose to install the wireless equipment in residential area. The hundreds of pounds equipment on
       utility pole are potentially safety hazard in emergency cases, for example earthqueak. The fallen higher pole
       with antenna can damage the property and hurt residents living in the house. The ugly equipment also makes
       noise that damages our green envienment.
    2. Palo Alto is gradually undergrounding utility wires. It is our goal for Palo Alto green environment. Verizon’s
       claims that it can not underground its equipment are not credible and violate Palo Alto’s ordinances and
       goal. No space around the pole and the pole in flooding zone can not be the reasons to violate and exempt from
       Palo Alto’s ordinances. Verizon must comply with Palo Alto’s ordinances to look for other solutions for their
       business purposes. If the 11 equipment are allowed to install then hundreds even thousands equipment from
       Verizon and other wireless providers will be installed based on various reasons not following Palo Alto’s
       ordinances. The Palo Alto’s ordinances becomes no meaning.
    3. We ae living in Palo Alto for more than 30 years. We are using Wi‐Fi and cell phone for many years and we do
       not have signal problem inside and outside of our house. An AT&T small wireless facility has been installed in the
       neighbor block just in 400 feet. We do not understand why Verizon claims the signal issue and install new
       equipment again. We do not like to see that our Palo Alto becomes ugly antenna forest if all wireless providers
       install their own facilities.

Please overturn the decision to allow Verizon to install the 11 wireless communication facility within Mid‐town.

Thanks for your consideration.

Regards,

Rushan Wen & Qizhang Chao




                                                              3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 3:52 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                                  Kathleen Martin <kvmartin@sbcglobal.net>
Sent:                                  Monday, May 21, 2018 2:48 PM
To:                                    Council, City
Cc:                                    Clerk, City
Subject:                               I oppose the placing of cell towers in residential neighborhoods.


To the City Council of the City of Palo Alto, California, and to the City Clerk of the City of Palo Alto, and to the Architectural
Review Board of the City of Palo Alto, California:

I am writing to express to you my opposition to the construction of cell towers in residential neighborhoods, especially in the City of
Palo Alto where I live.

Thank you,
Kathleen Martin




                                                                    4
                                                                                  COUNCIL MEETING
                                                                                                                 7
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/18/2018 4:13 PM
                                                                                           05/21/2018
                                                                                   ✔
                                                                                       Received Before Meeting
Carnahan, David

From:                            Art Liberman <art_liberman@yahoo.com>
Sent:                            Friday, May 18, 2018 3:37 PM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         Prioritize infrastructure projects and do NOT vote to approve Charleston-Arastradero
                                 repaving -



I would like the Council, at its meeting on May 21st, to not authorize the millions of dollars for the repaving of
the Charleston-Arastradero roadway.

I am not saying this project is unworthy of taxpayer funding. But this project is one of several major projects
that you and previous Council's have voted to approve but for which money was never allocated. And it is now
clear that the City of Palo Alto DOES NOT have the funds to pay for all these projects and it is also clear that
Palo Alto taxpayers are unwilling to increase their taxes to pay for all of them. Because of the escalation in
construction costs, the City has not nearly enough funds to pay for all these projects and move them all forward
now.

What is sorely needed - and what has not happened - is an open and frank discussion by the Council with
citizens to prioritize all these projects [the two parking garages, the public safety building, the bike/pedestrian
bridge over the freeway, the continuation of the bicycle infrastructure/traffic calming projects and this roadway
reconstruction], given the funds that are available by the City (including grant moneys), understanding that
there is a significant funding shortfall.

Some people would say this project has been in the works for 15 years - but the arguments for going ahead are
not strong. The roadway has been re-striped to reduce traffic lanes and include bicycle lanes, and the pavement
is in good condition. Furthermore, the reconstruction will not (according to City reports) reduce the congestion
at all. And then there is the rail crossing on Charleston to come (...how are we going to pay for that?), which
would involve ripping up up some of Charleston.

It makes no sense to approve one project in isolation without viewing it as just one of a collection of projects
approved years ago but for which there isn't sufficient funds for all of them now. Maybe Charleston-
Arastradero should be done in 3 years or 5 years or when the rail crossing is done. Maybe the Cal Ave garage
should be downsized or eliminated.

In my opinion, what must be done is to review the entire list of projects, given their costs and the total amount
of funds the City has available to pay for them, and prioritize them.

Arthur Liberman
751 Chimalus Drive




                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/18/2018 4:13 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Becky Epstein <becky@beckyepstein.com>
Sent:                           Friday, May 18, 2018 3:21 PM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        Support for Charleston-Arastradero Project (May 21 Meeting - Item 7)



Dear City Council,

I’ve lived in Charleston Meadows for over 20 years. I’m on the corridor about half the time in a car and the
other half by bike or on foot. I’m writing to encourage you to approve staff's recommendations for the
Charleston-Arastradero project. The remaining safety and road operations improvements are of critical
importance to the corridor. Completing the project is more important than ever given anticipated grade
separation on top of all the additional housing and commercial space that has been added to the area since 2003
(when Council first directed staff to prepare the corridor plan).

For 15 years, the corridor has been the subject of countless meetings and extremely thorough analysis, including
paint trials. It’s time to bring closure by approving the required construction contracts.

Thank you for your consideration of these comments.

Respectfully submitted,
Becky Epstein




                                                        2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/18/2018 4:13 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Lynnie Melena <lynniemelena@gmail.com>
Sent:                         Friday, May 18, 2018 3:01 PM
To:                           Council, City
Subject:                      Approve Charleston-Arastradero Construction Contracts



I urge you to approve the construction contracts and final budget adjustments for the Charleston-
Arastradero improvement project at your meeting on Monday night. I have been observing this
project closely since 2007 (11 of the 15 years it has been in development!). It has been thoroughly
vetted, refined, tested and approved by the City Council several times. It is time to take the final step

The current configuration makes travel safer for everyone. I am especially impressed by the increase
in school commute bicycling since the 1990s when my kids were at Gunn. This project is a showcase
for what we mean by "complete streets." As stated in the staff report the advancement of this project
is consistent with City policies and previous Council direction and implements one of Council’s
Infrastructure Plan projects.

Please keep the momentum going and move this project to construction.

Thank you.

Lynnie Melena




                                                      3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/18/2018 4:13 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         William Robinson <williamrobinson@goldenworld.com>
Sent:                         Friday, May 18, 2018 2:28 PM
To:                           Council, City
Subject:                      Crossing Guard pleads to approve Charleston-Arastradero project



I am employed as a School Crossing Guard at Charleston-Alma.

Being a Crossing Guard attests to the need to make traffic Calmer.

Cycling and walking students need improved pavement and striping to further their
safety.

Landscaping will improve the beauty of the roadway experience for all modes of
transportation furthering the CALM we all deserve.

Please vote YES on approving construction to improve Charleston-Arastradero.

William’Rob’ Robinson, member PABAC (Pedestrian and Bicycle Advisory Committee), Palo Alto
since 2005




                                                      4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/18/2018 4:13 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Christy Moision <cmoision@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Friday, May 18, 2018 11:07 AM
To:                              Council, City
Cc:                              Gaines, Chantal
Subject:                         Support for the Charleston-Arastradero Project



Dear City Council Members,

I am writing in support of the Charleston-Arastradero project. I hope that you will approve the construction
contract and get this long-awaited project finalized.

As a major school commute route for students in south Palo Alto, the project’s important safety and roadway
benefits must be implemented. Even with the striping trials that have greatly improved safety and comfort for
people on bikes, there is still much to do. I try to ride my bike for as many local tasks as possible, and still I
avoid the Charleston/El Camino intersection where the bike lane disappears. I’m a fairly confident adult cyclist
and this intersection is uncomfortable for me. I can only imagine how the students who travel through it on a
daily basis feel.

With the finalization of the plan, the areas that will have off-street paths and buffered bike lanes will be a great
benefit to students who are now forced to ride on the wrong side of the road in the “land-locked”
neighborhoods.

It’s clear that giving bikes and cars their own space is a worthwhile safety improvement. As an example, I’m
attaching a picture of the Terman/Fletcher bike box in use. The students now have a safe place to wait to cross
Arastradero. (And, thank you for this approving this awesome facility!)

I know there are concerns from drivers that the finalization of the plan will slow down traffic, but to the
contrary, the new adaptive signal system and additional space for cars at some intersections will help move
everyone along more smoothly. Additionally, this corridor is crucial for the coming grade separation at the rail
crossing.

I urge you to approve the construction contract.

Thank you,

Christy Moision
Louis Road Resident
Fairmeadow Safe Routes to School Champion




                                                          5
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/18/2018 4:13 PM




--

Christy Moision
626-390-0343 (cell)




                                                     6
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/18/2018 4:13 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Todd Sachs <todd.sachs@yahoo.com>
Sent:                            Friday, May 18, 2018 11:02 AM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         writing in support of the charleston/arastradero project



Hello,

 I understand there will be a meeting on the 21st to approve the construction contract. I won't be able to attend
the meeting, but I wanted to lend my voice in support of the project. I have been a participant in many of the
planning meetings and public hearings over the past 15 years. I live on Charleston and obviously have a vested
interest in this project. The people working on it for the city have been responsive over this time, and several
times have incorporated my feedback into the designs. I would say that the trial has been a big success, and now
it is certainly time to construct the permanent solution as it was envisioned. My kids bike down the corridor to
school every day, and I look forward to a time when they will have protected bike lanes the whole way. I also
look forward to a time when crossing the street at louis does not involve putting your life at risk.

 I'm a big supporter of this project and the people who have worked on it, and I urge you to take this last step of
approving the construction contract!

Thanks
Todd

(787 East Charleston Road)




                                                           7
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/18/2018 4:13 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Nancy Krop <nancy@kroplaw.com>
Sent:                            Thursday, May 17, 2018 11:48 AM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         Approve the Charleston-Arastradero Contract



Dear Palo Alto City Council,

Please approve the Charleston-Arastradeo construction contract at your Monday May 21 City Council meeting
(agenda item 7).

The concept plan for this project was approved in 2003, and has gone through multiple phases of study. It’s time
to complete the project.

Approve the contract to place the safety of our children first. Charleston-Arastradero serves eleven public and
private K-12 schools. As a parent of a school-age child biking in this area, I urge you to approve this contract to
improve the safety of our children biking and walking to school in this area.

I drive that road near daily. Drivers still race down it at 35 mph, and are furious at drivers like me (driving
within the speed limit). With all the children biking along the Charleston-Arastradero corridor, anything YOU
can do to slow the traffic and make it a safer road for our young students is fantastic.

I also see middle school students biking down the wrong-side of Arastradero towards Terman in the morning
because there’s no safe way for them to cross to the correct side. Seeing children biking in a bike lane, straight
at cars driving 35 mph towards them, is truly a terrifying sight. I encourage any of you to go out there and see it.
You would immediately vote to approve this contract.

Unfortunately, I will probably miss the May 21 meeting (and so not be there to address you in-person) because
my child is performing in a school performance that night.

Many thanks for considering my input and voting to approve the Charleston-Arastradero contract.

Nancy Krop
Barron Park neighborhood, Palo Alto




                                                         8
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/18/2018 4:13 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Edith Miller <miller1505@aol.com>
Sent:                          Thursday, May 17, 2018 9:42 AM
To:                            Council, City
Subject:                       Arastradero Road



Please DO NOT build anything solid in the middle of Arastradero Road. I walk there every morning and
afternoon and I very ofter see emergency vehicles hurrying to save someone. Auto and bike traffic (heavy at
times) always moves to the right as required which means that the only passable space is the center of the
road. This must be kept open or lives will be lost.
Thank you
Edith Miller
4226 McKellarLane
Palo Alto




                                                      9
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/18/2018 4:13 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Ronald Pyszka <ron.pyszka@gmail.com>
Sent:                             Thursday, May 17, 2018 8:24 AM
To:                               Council, City
Subject:                          Charleston-Arastradero Final Contract


I would like to thank the current and past City Councils for supporting the safety improvements to the Charleston‐
Arastradero corridor.

My wife and I have lived on East Charleston for more than 40 years. When Charleston was a four‐lane road, speeding
was a major problem. I can remember cars traveling in excess of 50 or 60 miles an hour. I can only imagine how bad the
situation would be today if Charleston were still a four‐lane road.

Many years of planning and community input have gone into this project. I personally have attended almost all of the
city council meetings and community input meetings associated with the project.

As home owners on East Charleston, we are completely happy with the current plans even though they do involve some
inconvenience for us.

As a former bicyclist, I know how much this project will enhance bicycle safety along the Charleston‐Arastraderoschool
corridor.

Please approve the paving contract. This project has been a long time coming. Let’s get on with it.

Thank you very much.

Ronald H. Pyszka
284 East Charleston Road

650‐796‐2659




                                                           10
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/18/2018 4:13 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                                  Gloria Pyszka <gpyszka@yahoo.com>
Sent:                                  Thursday, May 17, 2018 8:19 AM
To:                                    Council, City
Subject:                               Charleston Arastadero Corridor Agenda May 21


My husband and I have lived on East Charleston for many years. The reduction to two lanes has improved bike safety and reduced
speeding. When Charleston was a 4-lane street, we witnessed excessive speeding and fewer bikes. Today, increasing numbers of
students use bikes.

Charleston/Arastadero are residential streets with additional complexities - 7 or 8 schools, plus increasing numbers of cars using
Charleston/Arastadero as a cross-over between 280 and 101. It gets worse by the day.

Bicyclists and increasing traffic do not mix. Two lane implementation makes the most sense.

A dedicated left turn lane is absolutely needed at the Fabian/Charleston intersection.

We have supported this project for many years. We are happy with the final plans and urge the
City Council to move ahead and award the construction contract as currently outlined.

Gloria Pyszka
Esat Charleston




                                                                   11
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:39 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                  Gloria Pyszka <gpyszka@yahoo.com>
Sent:                                  Saturday, May 19, 2018 4:12 PM
To:                                    Council, City
Subject:                               Monday"s (5/21) City Council Meeting on Arastadero/Charleston Corridor


I am writing in advance of Monday's meeting on the A/C Corridor.

We have lived at 284 East Charleston for 44 years and have watched the huge traffic increases.

1. We all have to make concessions over the corridor issue. For example, we cannot turn left out of our driveway toward Alma
becaise of double yellow lines. Instead, we have to drive down to Carlson, then make a u-turn. If we approach our house from
Middlefield going toward Alma, we must turn left onto Mumford, make a u-turn and then access our driveway. Are we
complaining? No, because we understand that the project's success has many more pluses than minuses

2. There are more bikes on the road than ever before. While some of them are the spandex riders making longer commutes, the
majority are students biking to several of the 11 schools, K-12 in this corridor.

3. Speeding traffic has to be reduced. Cars can drive at speeds up to 50 mph on East Charleston between Alma and the light on
Carlson. You don't have to see them because you can hear the motors accelerate. This is especially bad during non-peak hours.

4. Railway/road separation - cross town traffic will not level off. It probably will even double once the railroad is no longer a
distraction. The Alma/Charleston intersection is congested. A stop light is required.

5. Finally, Charleston must not become another Oregon Expressway-type thoroughfare, despite the fact that residents and non-
residents alike, want another quick route across town.

Thank you for giving this agenda item the serious consideration that it deserves.

Gloria Pyszka
East Charleston
Palo Alto




                                                                    1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:39 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Maximilian Goetz <max.wz.goetz@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Saturday, May 19, 2018 7:10 PM
To:                              Council, City
Cc:                              Betty Lum
Subject:                         Please Approve the Arastradero Road Improvements



Honorable Members of City Council,

My name is Maximilian Goetz and I am a 10th grader at Henry M. Gunn High School. You may have heard of
me through my internship with Councilman Tanaka and my work on the Palo Alto Youth Council. But today, I
am writing as a citizen of Palo Alto, one who will be voting in 2020. I encourage you to approve the
Arastradero Road Improvements this Monday.

I bike on Arastradero Road every day on my way to school. I find that is significantly safer than Maybell
Avenue, which is far too narrow for cars to drive alongside bikes. While I am glad that the route has improved
over the past years, there is still a lot of room for additional safety measures. The road the main thoroughfare for
students attending Gunn High School, Terman Middle School, Bowman School, and Hoover Elementary.
Students from JLS Middle School, Farimeadow Elementary School, and Juana Briones Elementary School also
routinely use this route. Many of the cyclists who bike this route on a regular basis are young and inexperienced
bikers. We must prioritize the safety of these bikers. I see the following problems with the current
arrangement on Arastradero, all of which will be solved by the new improvements.

1. Speeding cars. When looking at the roadside speedometer on eastbound Arastradero, I consistently see cars
drive 35 miles per hour. This is extremely unsafe, given that these automobiles are driving directly alongside
bikers, many of which bike at speeds of under ten miles per hour. In addition, inexperienced cyclists often make
unpredictable moves, which can force drivers to brake suddenly (I have witnessed it myself). The chance of
survival for bikers increases exponentially for slower-moving cars. Adding permanent barriers in the center of
the street will subconsciously make these drivers drive slower, therefore making the road safer for all.

2. There is no bike lane on Arastradero when crossing El Camino Real. This forces bikers to either bike on the
sidewalk, or bike in the car lane. While the latter is what is legal by law, most bikers feel uncomfortable
merging into a lane of cars moving at 25+ miles per hour. Biking on the sidewalk is unsafe as well, and illegal
by law, but it is what many bikers are forced into doing. As a part of the new improvements, there will be a bike
lane across El Camino, dramatically increasing the safety for bikers.

Many constituents will cite the following arguments as reasons against the project. I have the following
responses to their arguments.

1. The project is a waste of money.
While I understand that the city is in debt, the safety of students must be a priority. Other spending can be cut,
such as the recently passed $2 million council chambers renovations project. Student safety should be more
important than the beautification of council chambers. Additionally, many people who complain about the costs
live in Los Altos Hills, so why should they care about cost?

2. More accidents happened after Arastradero was narrowed to two lanes.

                                                         2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:39 AM
This data fails to consider that there were also more bikers on the road after the road got narrowed.
Additionally, many of the bikers that now ride on the road are younger, less experienced bikers, who are
statistically proven to be more prone to incidents.

3. There is already enough congestion on Arastradero. My commute is steadily getting longer and longer. The
improvements will only make it worse.
There are many other roads where cars can drive on, such as Page Mill Road and San Antonio Road. Those
roads do not directly have schools on them. Student safety should be more important than someone saving a
couple minutes off of their commute.

In conclusion, the safety of bikers ought to be considered as the top impact in this issue. By voting for this
proposal, you are voting for a safer commute for the many bikers on this road, and the pedestrians who
routinely walk this route. As someone who uses the road everyday, and has seen many close misses, I can
assure you that the new improvements are a step in the right direction. There are many Los Altos Hills residents
against this project, but the opinions of Palo Altans must come first.

Thank you very much for your consideration. If you have any questions or comments, please feel free to let me
know. I appreciate your dedication to making the City of Palo Alto a better place for all residents.

Best Regards,

Maximilian Goetz (Max)
Palo Alto Orchards




                                                       3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:39 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Sonya Bradski <sonyangary@gmail.com>
Sent:                              Saturday, May 19, 2018 9:47 PM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           Request Approval of the Charleston/Arastradero Contract on Monday


Dear Palo Alto City Council,

Please approve the Charleston/Arastradero contract to install the hardscape safety and operations improvements.

I currently have two children in PAUSD. My daughters bike to Gunn everyday. After Arastradero was re stripped, the
highest speeds reduced somewhat, but the final safety improvements are still needed. We are a big bicycle family. My
husband bikes to work eastbound on Charleston from Greenmeadow toward Mountain View. The planned signal and
hard scape changes, especially at Middlefield and at Fabian, will help make his commute safer. My daughters will like the
new cycle tracks. The median and signal improvements at Nelson will help everyone in our neighborhood enter and exit
more safely and efficiently when walking bicycling or driving. We really need bike lines through the El Camino
intersection. That intersection is VERY challenging, even for skilled bike riders.

This road connects our neighborhood to the rest of the city. The final project with the new signals and built turning pockets
will make traffic flow better (and more safely) for everybody who drives, walks and bikes.

Please approve the construction contracts on Monday.

Thank you for your time and consideration.

Sincerely,

Sonya Bradski
4082 Nelson Dr.
Palo Alto, CA 94306




                                                              4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:40 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Eric Nordman <eric.nordman12@gmail.com>
Sent:                         Sunday, May 20, 2018 8:41 AM
To:                           Council, City
Subject:                      Please complete Charleston Arastradero improvements
Attachments:                  20180520_Charleston Arastradero letter.docx



                                           May 20, 2018

Dear Palo Alto Council Members

I am writing to urge the Council to approve the Charleston/Arastradero Construction.
This project has been in the works for over a decade.

On March 19, 2015 I attended community meeting #4 on the Charleston/Arastradero
corridor. I was also present when the plan lines were presented to the Pedestrian and
Bicycle Advisory Committee (PABAC) on February 3, 2015. In February, some
PABAC members, including myself, had some concerns about a few of the details of
the plan. In the March meeting I found that most of the issues raised by PABAC
members had been addressed. The train tracks crossing is still a difficulty but I didn’t
have a better solution.

The community meeting was well attended but many if not most of the verbal
questions/comments were about growth in Palo Alto rather than the merits of the
proposed changes. Others were from people concerned about some loss of
convenience.

When I read the comments people had written on the plan lines I was struck by a
contrast. There were lots of comments like this improvement would make it safer for
my kids to cross safely to school.

The city staff and consultants have done an excellent job with a very challenging
corridor. Charleston/Arastradero is a critical east/west corridor with many schools,
parks and community centers. The 2012 Pedestrian and Bicycle Plan showed a high
concentration of bicycle and pedestrian collisions.

The safety improvements for bicyclists and pedestrians are significant and I strongly
support completing the improvements as soon as possible.

Eric Nordman

2018 PABAC chair

                                                     1
                                   May 20, 2018

Dear Palo Alto Council Members

I am writing to urge the Council to approve the
Charleston/Arastradero Construction. This project has been in the
works for over a decade.

On March 19, 2015 I attended community meeting #4 on the
Charleston/Arastradero corridor. I was also present when the plan
lines were presented to the Pedestrian and Bicycle Advisory
Committee (PABAC) on February 3, 2015. In February, some
PABAC members, including myself, had some concerns about a few
of the details of the plan. In the March meeting I found that most of
the issues raised by PABAC members had been addressed. The
train tracks crossing is still a difficulty but I didn’t have a better
solution.

The community meeting was well attended but many if not most of
the verbal questions/comments were about growth in Palo Alto rather
than the merits of the proposed changes. Others were from people
concerned about some loss of convenience.

When I read the comments people had written on the plan lines I was
struck by a contrast. There were lots of comments like this
improvement would make it safer for my kids to cross safely to
school.

The city staff and consultants have done an excellent job with a very
challenging corridor. Charleston/Arastradero is a critical east/west
corridor with many schools, parks and community centers. The 2012
Pedestrian and Bicycle Plan showed a high concentration of bicycle
and pedestrian collisions.

The safety improvements for bicyclists and pedestrians are significant
and I strongly support implementing the improvements as soon as
possible.

Eric Nordman
2018 PABAC chair
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:40 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Stella <stellahearn@sbcglobal.net>
Sent:                             Saturday, May 19, 2018 9:04 AM
To:                               Council, City
Subject:                          Charleston/Arastradero Project


To: Honorable Mayor, Liz Kniss, and members of the City Council

Please approve the funds for the Charleston/Arastradero Projects. This well‐designed project is long overdue for
completion!
Thank you,
Stella Hearn




                                                           1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:51 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Richard Sachs <richard.sachs@gmail.com>
Sent:                          Sunday, May 20, 2018 11:03 AM
To:                            Council, City
Subject:                       Charleston/Arastradero Construction Contract
Attachments:                   PastedGraphic-3.tiff



Dear members of the Palo Alto City Council,

Please approve the Charleston/Arastradero construction contract.

I am 20-year Palo Alto home owner. I am making an effort to minimize my car usage in the city. My wife and I
bike wherever we can in the city for errands, business meetings and recreation. Implementation of the
Charleston/Arastradero plan will help us expand our range and support our decisions to choose bike over car
whenever possible.

Regards,

Richard Sachs
Greenmeadow home owner




Richard Sachs

520 El Capitan Place
Palo Alto, CA 94306
650.269.6353
skype: sachsrichard




                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:51 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                 Tamara Abrams <tabrams@gmail.com>
Sent:                                 Sunday, May 20, 2018 11:49 AM
To:                                   Council, City
Subject:                              Please approve the contract for Charleston-Arastradero Improvements


Dear City Council,

I am writing to ask you to support the plans to continue improvements to Charleston-Arastradero that make this important
corridor safe for people using all modes of transportation. As someone who bikes around town regularly, and whose husband
commutes daily via bicycle, it is very important to me that we keep traffic slow and add safety measures. Also, my children bike
daily to JLS and Gunn. As you know the Charleston-Arastradero Corridor is an important school commute route.

I am especially interested in the El Camino intersection including making the bike lane continual there. I have biked through
here several times and it is very scary, as it is now. It is currently not clear where to ride to share the road safely with cars. This
is also difficult to navigate as a driver when there are bikes crossing as well. My son currently avoids this by biking down
Meadow. I recently volunteered at an event at JLS to help the 8th grade students plan their bike routes to Gunn. I was
surprised at how many of the students I spoke with that live to the south of Charleston, making Meadow a less viable
alternative. For those students, Charleston-Arastradero is key in their school route and I am really concerned about students
biking through there.

There are many other improvements in the plan that will be such a benefit to our community. Let's complete this project and
enjoy the entire vision for the corridor

Thank you so much
Tamara Abrams




                                                                   2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:51 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                   James Pflasterer <jimpf@sbcglobal.net>
Sent:                                   Sunday, May 20, 2018 12:14 PM
To:                                     Council, City
Subject:                                Encouraging City Council to Approve Charleston-Arastradero Contracts




Dear City Council,
I am writing to recommend approval of the Charleston Aratradero contracts for moving forward with the permanent enhancement for
this corridor to provide a safe and effective artery for travel in south Palo Alto for hundreds of school children and adults that use it as
bicyclists and pedestrians every day. The trial with markings-only has yielded slower traffic and better safety with less students
involved in accidents, the primary goal for this area which contains 11 schools and preschools as well as a library and community
center. My children have attended and still attend schools in the Arastradero portion of the corridor and bike to school regularly
knowing the layout on Arastradero enables them to get to school confidently using effective bike lanes and crossings. Drivers in this
area during peak school commute times are now cognizant of the student traffic and yielding where and when needed to allow their
safe passage.

Thank your for your consideration,
James Pflasterer




                                                                     3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:51 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Goetz, Werner <werner.goetz@lumileds.com>
Sent:                             Sunday, May 20, 2018 12:22 PM
To:                               Council, City
Subject:                          Charleston/Arastradero corridor


Dear Palo Alto City Council Members,
I am writing to express my strong support for completion and making permanent the lane reduction project on the
Charleston/Arastradero corridor. I congratulate you to your foresight to initiate this project. It has brought much needed
reduction of vehicle speed, safe turning lanes, and wider, safer bicycle lanes. As a resident along the corridor, it is
fantastic to see students on their bikes in large numbers riding to school in the morning. Both my children have been
riding their bike to either Terman or Gunn. Their safety and the safety of other students is of utmost priority to me.
Please conclude this project and provide the funds necessary so that the construction can become permanent. Please
also consider adding additional measures that make the El Camino crossing safer for bicycle riders.
Sincerely,
Werner Goetz
4205 Suzanne Drive




                                                            4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:51 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Markus Fromherz <markus@fromherz.us>
Sent:                            Sunday, May 20, 2018 12:57 PM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         Support for Charleston/Arastradero construction contract



Honored City Council Members,

I am a Barron Park resident, live on Amaranta Ave., used to work in the research park above Foothill
Expressway, and used to drive or bike daily to work, at various times, including 7:30-8:30am and 4-6pm.

I again would like to express my very strong support for the Charleston/Arastradero Corridor Plan, which
is ready for final construction. We have been working on this for many years. This project will provide
signalization and hardscape improvements that will provide better safety and operational efficiency
for motorists, bicyclists, pedestrians, and transit users. It also will create new bike lanes where there currently is
a dangerous gap in the existing bike lanes at the El Camino Real intersection.

I would like to re-iterate what I have written before. After several years, I find the restriping to be a huge
improvement without introducing any downsides:

   1. The road is more structured, with clear turn-offs along the way where cars used to block the left lane
      when turning. Compare that to a four-lane highway before, where cars dominated the road. Overall I feel
      we have achieved the compromise we need between local traffic for schools and parks, much of it bikes
      and pedestrians, and commute traffic, much of it cars.
   2. The restriping provided a number of improvements for bicyclists and pedestrians, including more room
      for bicyclists, better turn protection for bicyclists, better crossings for pedestrians, and lower car speeds.
      I have heard this confirmed from other bicyclists. The final treatment will further improve and fine-tune
      these changes.
   3. As a car driver, I find traffic from Coulombe to Gunn acceptable, given the constraints of the
      environment, such as several large schools and substantial commuter through-traffic. There always was
      a traffic jam around school start time. Traffic in the morning has further markedly improved since the
      bell changes at Gunn and Bowman. In any case, traffic is acceptable most of the day, but fortunately it
      has slowed down noticeably from the previous highway speeds.
   4. Traffic on Amaranta seems to be about the same as before. Related to that, on Coulombe in the morning
      there are never more than three cars waiting to enter Arastradero, which tells me that at least from that
      side we are not overloaded.

Overall, I feel this road has been vastly improved, and I look forward to the final treatment.

Please prioritize safety for all road users on our local roads!


Sincerely,
Markus Fromherz




                                                          5
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:51 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                             nodiamonds@gmail.com on behalf of philippe@nodiamonds.com
Sent:                             Sunday, May 20, 2018 12:58 PM
To:                               Council, City
Subject:                          Please approve the Charleston/Arastradero contract


Dear Palo Alto City Council,

Please approve the Charleston/Arastradero contract to install the hardscape safety and operations improvements.

I have two children who bike to Gunn everyday. My daughter was hit by a car at the El Camino crossing a few months
ago. That crossing is still unsafe today for bikers, and children are at risk every day this project is delayed.

Please approve the construction contracts on Monday.

Thank you for your time and consideration,

Sincerely,

Philippe Alexis
349 Diablo Court
CA 94306




                                                           6
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:51 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Robert Neff <rmrneff@sonic.net>
Sent:                            Sunday, May 20, 2018 1:55 PM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         Support funding Charleston/Arastradero


                                              May 20, 2018

Dear Palo Alto City Council,

I write in support of funding the next phase of improvements on the Charleston/Arastradero corridor.

I have been using the Charleston/Arastradero corridor for the past 25 years. I use the section West of Alma on
my commute, and I use Charleston East of Alma to get to my church, and to get to shopping in Mountain
View. Most of my travel is by bicycle.

When the current configuration on Charleston was implemented more than 10 years ago, the section West of
El Camino become more usable and less intimidating. Traffic slowed, with far fewer cars above 40 mph, and
the dedicated left turn lane made it much less stressful to turn left. It is still a street that moves a lot of auto
traffic, so the sections without bicycle lanes, at El Camino Real, and between Fabian and San Antonio are very
discouraging to most potential bicyclists.

Newer bicycle plans look at the entire streets network for connectivity of low-stress cycling streets, and indicate
where we can improve utility by creating a better connected network. The existing conditions at El Camino,
and near San Antonio are barriers that discourage many potential bicycle trips. For example, most South Palo
Alto residents would not consider bicycling to get to the OSH hardware store, because of the poor conditions
on just one block of Charleston from Fabian to San Antonio.

Both of these street sections are addressed in the current Charleston/Arastradero plan, as part of Phase 3 of
construction. Phases 1 and 2, which you are asked to fund on May 21, include many other improvements to
the corridor, including wider sidewalks, Palo Alto’s first buffered bike lanes and a parking-separated bike lane,
additional queueing space for cars at Alma street, and a new traffic signal coordination system. These will
improve mobility for all modes, and the new median plantings will further calm traffic, and beautify the corridor.

Please vote to fund these improvements, and continue to support the overall Charleston/Arastradero plan.

Robert Neff
Emerson near Loma Verde
Palo Alto

--
-- Robert Neff
robert@neffs.net




                                                         7
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:51 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                               Bret Andersen <bretande@pacbell.net>
Sent:                               Sunday, May 20, 2018 2:44 PM
To:                                 Council, City
Subject:                            Please approve the Charleston-Arastradero Plan Construction Contracts


Dear Council Members,

I urge you to approve the Charleston‐Arastradero construction contracts so that we can finally begin roll‐out of the
planned improvements to a major road in the south of our city.

I often bicycle and drive along this route and appreciate the calm, safety and convenience of using this road by car and
bike. It is a key route for South Palo Alto folk to access the schools and shops on this street and the western hills/Foothill
park. I like the convenience and safety of the 3 lane configuration with dedicated center lane for left turns. This
eliminates the problem of drivers darting over to the right lane when confronted by someone blocking the left lane
while waiting to turn left. It also allows more space for bicycling on the right. I look forward to more of this type of bike
and drive friendly configuration extending through the El Camino (which is very difficult to navigate safely by bike today)
and other intersections along the route.

Thank you for making our city a better place to live by approving this important project.

Bret Andersen, Palo Verde Neighborhood




                                                              8
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:51 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Henry Lum <hblum@pacbell.net>
Sent:                         Sunday, May 20, 2018 3:33 PM
To:                           Council, City
Subject:                      Charleston/Arastradero Construction Contract Funding



Honorable Council Members,

Both my wife and I strongly recommend that the Council approve the funding for the initiation of
Charleston-Arastradero construction in June 2018.

We have lived at the corner of Suzanne and Arastradero since 1965 and have noticed a significant
improvement in our quality of life resulting from the traffic calming measures implemented in the
Corridor. Prior to the lane reduction, my wife's Buick was rear-ended by another driver who did
not notice that she was waiting to make a left-turn into our neighborhood even though her left turn
signals were fully operational. The addition of the dedicated turn-pockets into and out of our
neighborhood (Palo Alto Orchards), the lane reduction, and the addition of the Clemo-Arastradero
crosswalk have improved the safety of our children, grandparents walking their grandchildren to
Juana Briones Elementary School, and the cyclists.

Traffic congestion is about the same with the lane reduction vs. the original 4-lane configuration
since drivers now making a left or right turn off Arastraderointo their respective neighborhoods can
now use the dedicated turn-pockets and not impede traffic in the other lane. Prior to the Corridor
improvements, anyone making a left or right turn into opposing traffic to enter their neighborhoods
would block traffic in one lane making the two lanes into one lane. When schools along the
corridor are not in session and during off-peak hours, there is hardly any traffic
congestion. Implementation of the Traffic Adaptive Signal System will also facilitate the flow the
traffic along the Corridor.

The implementation of the landscaped median islands will prevent impatient drivers from using the
turn-pocket lanes as passing zones to get ahead of the traffic in front of them. This is a common
occurrence from the intersections of Coulombe/Arastradero to Clemo/Arastradero. About a month
ago, a student walking in the Clemo/Arastradero crosswalk was almost hit by a driver doing this
illegal maneuver. The student was alert enough to recognize what was happening and jumped back
to the median island.

In concluding, we implore you to approve the funding for the Charleston/Arastradero Corridor to
ensure our quality of life and the safety and well being of our neighborhood residents along the
Corridor.



                                                      9
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:51 AM
Thank you for your consideration and your dedication and effort towards this project. It has been
greatly appreciated!!

Regards,


Henry and Betty Lum

4202 Suzanne Drive
Palo Alto 94306




                                                     10
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:51 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Meri Gruber <meri.gruber@gmail.com>
Sent:                         Sunday, May 20, 2018 6:52 PM
To:                           Council, City
Subject:                      Please approve the Charleston-Arastradero Corridor Final Contract



Dear Palo Alto City Council,
As a resident of Greenmeadow, I fully support the Charleston-Arastradero Corridor project. It has
greatly improved traffic flow and safety. Please approve the final contract of this important project.
Thank you.

Best regards,

Meri Gruber
Briarwood Way
Palo Alto
, CA




                                                      11
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:51 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Claire Kirner <kirnerclaire@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Sunday, May 20, 2018 10:05 PM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         Please approve the contract for the Charleston Arastradero Corridor Project



Dear Members of the Palo Alto City Council,

Our family lives in the Greenmeadow neighborhood, very near the intersection of Nelson Drive and Charleston.
On most days, our three kids ride their bikes or walk to Fairmeadow and JLS. Next fall, our oldest son will be
commuting to Gunn High School.

A few weeks ago, I happened to by driving down Charleston during the morning school commute. I observed a
car speeding down Charleston, and pulling a wide u-turn not far from the Stevenson House and Hoover School.
This u-turn was wide enough that the car ended up in the bike lane, coming within inches of hitting our
neighbor’s 14 year old son who was riding to school. I expected the car to slow down after nearly hitting a
child. It did not. Instead, it accelerated down Charleston. I’d like to say that this incident was rare and that near
misses rarely happen on Charleston. Unfortunately that is not the case.

Along the Charleston-Arastradero corridor, there are eleven public and private K-12 schools, five city parks,
Mitchell Park Library, and several community centers and playing fields. It is also a route used by recreational
and commuter bicyclists wanting to access destinations in the hills and baylands. Numerous office parks and
buildings bring high volumes of automobile traffic to the area as well.

Since the approval of it’s concept plan in 2003, the Charleston Arastradero Corridor Project has undergone
several phases of study and striping trials in order to make this road safer for all. The data from these trials
yielded favorable results, but many safety and some operation improvements have yet to be installed.

I am writing today to urge you to approve the contract in order to move forward with these improvements. Our
citizens rely too heavily on this South Palo Alto route to not make every possible effort to enhance safety and
reduce the risks of collisions. Your approval of this next phase in an important step in keeping these important
commute routes safe.

Sincerely,
Claire Kirner
3934 Nelson Drive




                                                          12
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 3:52 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Arthur Keller <arthur@kellers.org>
Sent:                             Monday, May 21, 2018 10:32 AM
To:                               Council, City
Subject:                          SUPPORT Charleston-Arastradero plan


Honorable Mayor and City Council,

I support proceeding with construction of the Charleston‐Arastradero plan. This plan has been widely reviewed by the
community including earlier this year. There is dedicated funding for this plan that cannot be used for another purpose.
Any shortfall in funding is largely due to delays in implementation causing increased construction costs.

The Charleston‐Arastradero plan does not have components that have been controversial in some other bicycle
boulevard designs. There are no speed bumps, no bulb outs in the middle of blocks. There are dedicated separate
bicycle lanes along the side of the road, allowing cars to safely pass them.

This plan is much safer than the four‐lane speedway that preceded it. Bicycle commuting is increasing to schools and
companies in Palo Alto, including along the corridor.

This plan deserves your support now, so the cost does not go up even more.

Best regards,
Arthur Keller
(Not in any official capacity)




                                                            1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 3:52 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Kevin Chen <kevinychen@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Monday, May 21, 2018 10:48 AM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        stop changing the bike lanes on Ross and Amarillo



Dear Council members, I am writing this to voice my concern about the danger of the Ross Road work and
upcoming work on Amarillo Ave. We have seen no evidence that the new projects are safe or effective, and see
obvious risks to bikers with the current design that stupidly pinch bike lanes. We are endangering our children.
please revert these changes and fire the architecture company who came up with this stupid idea of pinching the
lanes and having the ridiculously designed roundabout at Ross and Meadow. This is a key issue that will
motivate voting in the next city city council election.

best regards

Yong (kevin ) Chen
a Ross Resident




                                                        2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 3:52 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                                    Keri Wagner <keriwagner@gmail.com>
Sent:                                    Monday, May 21, 2018 1:44 PM
To:                                      Council, City
Cc:                                      Keene, James; Keri Wagner
Subject:                                 Please approve Charleston/Arastradero Construction


Dear City Council Members --

Please vote to approve the construction for the Charleston/Arastradero Corridor Project at the council meeting tonight. I live
in CharlestonMeadows and my only access out of the neighborhood is onto Charleston Road. I cannot attend the meeting to tell you in
person, but this plan is essential for many reasons:

1. Improved safety -- the calmer traffic patterns mean my kids can walk and bike to Gunn safely. Our entire family can easily walk or bike
to the new Mitchell Park Library. The bike path improvements along the entire corridor benefit our community and others who come into
Palo Alto for work or fun. The multi-use bike path is a terrific idea. The pedestrian improvements at all the intersections and the enhanced
crossings at Clemo, Ruthelma, Wright, and Louis make this fairly busy street much easier and safer to cross. I also drive this road a lot, and
the slower speeds and turn lanes keep traffic moving well throughout the day.

2. Improved access -- access into and out of my neighborhood and many other land-locked neighborhoods is safer for car drivers because of
the improvements at Fabian, Louis, Park, Wilkie, Suzanne, Los Palos, Pomona, Donald/Terman, and Gunn High School.

3. Improved aesthetics -- this is harder to quantify, but the planted medians and the bulb-outs at the intersections will look so nice and make
the road calmer and safer.

I've driven this road for years, and remember well when Charleston/Arastradero was four lanes with no turn lane. The road was a speedway at
night and completely blocked with traffic during the day. You made the road safer just by using paint, imagine how much the construction
will enhance everyone's commute.

Let's get this done.
Thank you.
Keri Wagner
Edlee Ave
Palo Alto
     Right-click here to
     download pictures. To
     help protect y ou r priv acy ,
     Outlo ok prev ented
     auto matic downlo ad o f
     this pictu re from the
     In ternet.




                                                                       3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 3:52 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           TOM CRYSTAL <tlcrystal@comcast.net>
Sent:                           Monday, May 21, 2018 2:32 PM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        In support of the Charleston-Arastradero construction



In support of the Charleston-Arastradero construction contract, for
21 May 2018 Council consideration and vote.



It has been years in coming; meaningful construction, based on
the substantial inputs from experts and affected neighborhoods may
finally be here. The need for the many improvements proposed is
in my experience greater than when we started this project,
decades(!) ago. A lot of my neighbors have spoken of their
approval of the soft-scaping mods (simple striping), and their
desire for the hard-scaping to go forward -- typically they
are parents looking for increased safety for the kids.



I hope you will act positively on this project Monday evening.
The long wait has been long enough.



Tom Crystal.
3815 Mumford Pl. This is in the Walnut Grove neighborhood which
has its northern edge along Charleston, from Alma to Nelson,
a substantial stretch that is seriously impacted by this plan.




                                                         4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 3:52 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                               Mila Zelkha <mila.zelkha@gmail.com>
Sent:                               Monday, May 21, 2018 3:12 PM
To:                                 Council, City
Subject:                            Charleston-Arastradero construction contract



Dear Palo Alto City Council,

I am writing today to ask you to approve the contract to complete the installation of long-awaited
improvements to the Charleston Arastradero corridor.

I grew up riding my bike along this corridor and have wished to see its use be a safe path for both
bicyclists and motorists to share. Today, our family members are regular users of this corridor, going
to various destinations along it on a daily basis including various schools, parks, the library and
playing fields and yet it is not as safe as a corridor so widely used should be.

During the recent multi-phased striping trial to study how the road diet might affect road operations,
many safety and some operations improvements could not be installed because they involved more
than just paint. The concept plan for this project was approved in 2003 and after going through
multiple phases of careful study, now is the final stretch - it is time to make the final improvements.

Some of these that are of particular interest are:


       New off road, multi-use paths in sections where students currently are forced to ride wrong-
        way on the street from landlocked neighborhoods.
       New buffered bike lanes and protected cycle tracks at some locations where right-of-way
        allows and need exists.
       New VTA bus stop duckout at Terman to prevent stopped buses from obstructing bike lanes
        and through auto traffic.
       Close the last remaining gap in the continuous bike lane at the dangerous El Camino
        intersection.
       Additional lane space for motor vehicles at some intersection approaches.


Community input has been lengthy and thoughtful. Now is the time to implement what the community has asked for and
professionals have studied. Please don't conflate critique community members have about other transportation
infrastructure improvements with what has been a safety improvement project 15 years in the making.

Please approve the Charleston-Arastradero construction contract so that work can begin in June as scheduled.

Thank you for your consideration.

Mila Zelkha
Palo Alto, CA 94306




                                                            5
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 3:52 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                                 Kirsten Flynn <kir@declan.com>
Sent:                                 Monday, May 21, 2018 3:39 PM
To:                                   Council, City
Subject:                              Arastradero Road traffic improvements.


Honorable City Council,

Please vote to approve the Charleston Arastradero Construction project. This project has been well thought out, extensively tested and
makes our children safer, while allowing multiple transportation modalities to flow on this route.

During the test period, this project has:

- Reduced the number of high speed vehicles (those traveling greater than 37mph) during the off-peak hours by
approximately 50 percent. A pedestrian is nearly twice as likely to be killed by a vehicle moving 35mph than a vehicle
moving 28 mph.

- Decreased the number of injury bike/ped accidents on this school commute route while the number and percentage of
students bicycling to corridor schools rose.

The permanent improvement will build on these wonderful statistics while:
- Creating signaling that will respond to traffic to increase auto through-put.
- Get bikes off the roadway in areas where children are forced to wrong-way ride, to get out of their street, and onto
Arastradero.
- close the gap in the bike lane at El Camino Real, this will get bike off the sidewalk and out of the lane of traffic.
- Creates additional auto lane space at some intersection approaches.

Any time you make it SAFE for a kid to bike to school, you are taking a car, and it’s GHG emissions, out of the commute traffic. This
is important to our Palo Alto's goal of cutting carbon emissions to 80% below 1990 levels by 2030.

You are also introducing the idea of the bicycle as a form of transportation to that kid and that parent. I have been working with the
Safe Routes to School program since I was the Co-PTA president at the newly re-opened Barron Park School, in 1997. We worked to
make it safe for our kids to be able to ride to all of the schools in the city, especially the 6 schools located along the
Charleston/Arastradero Corridor. This project has taken a challenging area, and created a solution that improves
bicycle and pedestrian commute safety, while accommodating car commuters. Please continue to support the
completion of this work.
Best Regards,
Kirsten A. Flynn
471 Matadero Avenue.




                                                                  6
                                                                                      COUNCIL MEETING
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 4:16 PM
                                                                                       ✔
                                                                                               05/21/2018
                                                                                           Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                                       7
Carnahan, David

From:                              Penny Ellson <pellson@pacbell.net>
Sent:                              Monday, May 21, 2018 4:03 PM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           Charleston-Arastradero Contracts


Honorable City Council Members,

I am writing to encourage you to approve the Charleston-Arastradero (C-A) contracts that you will discuss tonight. I want
to thank you and staff for this forward-thinking project. It is a truly multi-modal project that I am proud our city has
undertaken. I thank you for that important work.

The staff report does an excellent job outlining the importance of this road as a school commute corridor and multimodal
residential arterial. Safe, efficient operations for every mode of transportation on Charleston-Arastradero is very important
to everyone who uses it, especially for thousands of households south of the corridor—for whom it provides access to the
rest of the city.

C-A Plan Is Not A “Bike Project”: A Little History
The very first significant change the original project team made to Arastradero was an auto capacity increase at Gunn.
Before the city did anything else on the Arastradero section of the corridor, they added a new, fifth, dedicated right turn
lane on Arastradero into Gunn High School driveway. They also eliminated a bottleneck at the throat of the driveway and
improved internal campus circulation to relieve auto congestion. The combined effect of these changes was to eliminate
congestion that would spill back onto Arastradero and create westbound gridlock during the morning peak hour that
extended past Terman. This was before the Arastradero striping trial. The city added this capacity to study the effect of the
change and to understand how much surplus auto capacity they could take to improve the road for all modes.

At the same time, they implemented the four-way signal at Terman/Donald intersection because the city knew we needed
that to accommodate high volumes of foot-powered students at that crossing.

The effects of these changes were studied and built into a model that also incorporated anticipated changes from planned
development at the time that included projected growth in the research park. That model was used to inform engineering
of the Arastradero striping plan.

I worried before we added that additional capacity that drivers would get used to the freer traffic flow and be unwilling to
give any of it up. Staff assured me that they’d move the process expediently so that would not occur. A decade later,
people have forgotten this important work.

The designed road now carries many more trips of all modes, so it has been successful accommodating growth through
mode shift while maintaining point-to-point travel times, but the striping trial could not deliver many safety and
operational improvements that we badly need. The paint trial tested whether or not we could do the road diet and maintain
point-to-point travel times. It did not implement many safety and operational improvements that will only be possible
with the hardscape installation. Among these are:

       New Traffic Adaptive signal system to reduce auto delays and congestion along the corridor
       New, improved signalization to facilitate convenient, safe turns at some intersections where needed
       Additional lane space for motor vehicles at some intersection approaches
       Preparation of the road for planned grade separation of rail
       New VTA bus stop duckout at Terman to prevent stopped buses from obstructing bike lanes and through auto
        traffic
       Close the last remaining gap in the continuous bike lane at the dangerous El Camino intersection

                                                              1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 4:16 PM
       New landscaped median islands (to be built within the existing double yellow lined areas) will provide:
            o Pedestrian refuge areas
            o Natural beauty and reduced “heat island” effects of the current wide expanse of asphalt
            o Smoother and better controlled turning movements and merges and moderation of the highest speeds
                during off-peak periods
            o Protection from collisions for turning cars and bicycles
       New off road, multi-use paths in sections where students currently are forced to ride wrong-way on the street from
        landlocked neighborhoods
       New buffered bike lanes and protected cycle tracks at some locations where right-of-way allows and need exists.
       Safer connections linking neighborhood communities south of the C-A corridor to the rest of the city’s bicycle–
        pedestrian network.

 Policy Basis & Public Process
A residential arterial treatment like the Charleston-Arastradero Plan was specifically called for in the city’s last
Comprehensive Plan (Program T-41) and the recently Updated Comp Plan (Goal T-1, Goal T-2, Goal T-3, Goal T-4
including espciellay Policy T-4.4, Goal T-6, Goal T-7), and is also supported by multiple other policies and goals in the
Comp Plan-- as the staff report documents very well. The project is recommended, ranking high for its anticipated
contribution to safety and connectivity, in the city’s Bicycle & Pedestrian Transportation Plan (page 7-9, BK1). The
project has been vetted through more than 15 study sessions and public hearings (all unanimous votes in favor) and
countless community meetings since 2003. The striping trial was unanimously approved in 2012. Concept Plan Lines
were unanimously approved in 2015.

Next Steps
The finished project will provide a continuous bike lane the entire length of the corridor—including through the
problematic El Camino Real intersection where there presently is a gap in the bike lane.

Landscaped median islands will beautify the corridor, but more importantly the new medians will provide significant
additional safety for all road users. For people who drive, dedicated turn lanes will control turning movements and lane
changing and protect left-turning vehicles from rear-end and broad-side collisions. The current paint striping provides no
pedestrian refuge, little traffic smoothing effect, no bulb-out benefits, no physical separation of vehicles between each
other and people who are walking and bicycling at potential conflict points. The planned hardscape will provide these
important safety benefits.

The C-A Plan, though controversial, has received repeated unanimous approval in all of its various phases. Though it is
not perfect, this plan is the best solution to accommodate increasing auto traffic volumes while creating safer conditions
for the people who must drive, walk and bike on this street, especially large numbers of school bound children. It will
prepare the road to mitigate the potential for induced traffic impacts when train preemption is eliminated by grade
separation.

Please approve the Charleston-Arastradero Concept construction contracts and move the project toward
implementation of the final hardscape phase after more than a decade of study to improve safety and operations.
Prepare Charleston-Arastradero with this project for future grade separation.

Thank you for considering my comments.

Sincerely,

Penny Ellson




                                                             2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 4:16 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Seena Huang <seena.huang@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Monday, May 21, 2018 4:14 PM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        Charleston-Arastradero Project



To whom it may concern,

I am unavailable to speak at tonight's meeting, but I wanted to voice my support for to approve the contract to
move forward. As a former Gunn student who rode my bike to school regularly, I was hit by a car which
resulted in a broken wrist.

Regards,
Seena Huang

504 El Capitan Pl, Palo Alto, CA




                                                        3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 4:16 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           rosa huang <rosapaca@yahoo.com>
Sent:                           Monday, May 21, 2018 4:09 PM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        Charleston project



I would like to inform you that I have had three near-death accident on this road.
Two I have escaped.
third I got hit by a car while riding my bike from volunteering at Gunn High school. I was injured.

My teenage son was hit by a car on Aresteradero and his arm was in a cast for over a month.

We need this project to be completed to avoid fatality and injury to people.

Thank you.

Rosa Huang
504 El Capitan place
Palo Alto.




                                                        4
                                                                                    FINANCE MEETING
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 3:53 PM
                                                                                     ✔
                                                                                             05/23/2018
                                                                                         Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                                    1
Carnahan, David

From:                             Young, Edwin <eyoung@honolulu.gov>
Sent:                             Monday, May 21, 2018 12:46 PM
To:                               Council, City
Subject:                          Message from the City Council Home Page


To the Members of the Palo Alto City Council:

I was chagrined to read about the proposed cuts to the Office of the City Auditor. Please allow me to express my
personal opinions.

When I worked as a performance auditor at the City of Palo Alto. Sharon Erickson was recognized for her integrity,
candor, and professionalism as the City Auditor. The newspapers labeled her as the “Most Trusted Individual in City
Government”. The title resulted from her leadership, guidance, and productivity in producing audits that were value
added, impactful, and significantly improved the city operations. Under her leadership, the Office of the City Auditor
won a plethora of national awards and set many national precedents for the auditing profession.

Although the Palo Alto city manager tried to defund and eliminate the Office of the City Auditor, her successors were
successful in protecting the office and its independent and objective audit work. Unfortunately, the current leadership
has not maintained the momentum, vitality, and productivity generated under Sharon Ericksons’ leadership. The
importance of the City Auditor function in Palo Alto is demonstrated by this example. After the Palo Alto Chief
Information Officer (CIO) assured the auditors all corrective actions were taken to protect the city’s personnel, e‐
commerce, and other sensitive databases, the city’s performance auditors were able to penetrate the city’s SAP ERM
(enterprise resource management) system by using default passwords. The auditors were able to access and change
personnel records, personal data, and other important data on city executives. The embarrassing audit results were
suppressed and the final report watered down to avoid disclosing the full significance of the performance audit
results. The current City Auditor’s acquiescence to outsource the city’s performance audits is therefore a major
disappointment, and, in my opinion, reflects badly on her ability to provide the leadership and professionalism set by
Sharon Erickson.

Based on my experiences as the City Auditor for the City and County of Honolulu and based on my past experiences in
the Bay Area, companies that perform outsourced performance audits are costly. Their charges often exceed the cost of
retaining city employees, and some have criticized the companies for not complying with US Comptroller auditing
standards, not being independent or objective, and producing reports that promote political agendas. The outsourced
reports are often critical of government operations, but not value added. Many reports produce mixed results.

The difference between outsourced performance audits and in‐house audits can be illustrated by a recent example. Our
external IT auditors repeatedly advised our city’s information technology department to strengthen its information
security practices. The IT department refused to implement the recommendations and the outsourced performance
auditors had no leverage to ensure the recommendations were implemented. Our in‐house performance auditors
performed follow up cybersecurity audits and reaffirmed the importance of the recommendations. Through the
persistence and perseverance of the city auditors, the IT department reluctantly implemented the
recommendations. As a result of the city auditors’ efforts, the city was not vulnerable to the recent wave of
ransomware attacks, did not pay any ransoms, and did not have lose any databases.

If the City of Palo Alto auditor’s office (a nationally recognized audit office) is dismantled, the voters will lose an
independent and objective resource needed to ensure the city operations are effective and efficient, and voters will lose
the assurance the city resources are not being wasted or subject to fraud and abuse. Outsourcing the performance

                                                            1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 3:53 PM
audits should not be pursued without seriously considering the consequences, as rebuilding the lost expertise can have
serious and costly consequences to the city.

Sincerely,

Edwin Young , City Auditor
City and County of Honolulu




                                                           2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/22/2018 2:20 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Minor, Beth
Sent:                         Tuesday, May 22, 2018 12:45 PM
To:                           Carnahan, David
Subject:                      FW: Downtown Garage Utilization, Valet Services and City Budgets
Attachments:                  Cowper Webster Bryant Garage Under Utilization Feb Mar Apr May 2018.xlsx;
                              ATT00001.htm



From: Neilson Buchanan <cnsbuchanan@yahoo.com>
Date: May 22, 2018 at 11:08:19 AM PDT
To: Greg Tanaka <gltanaka@gmail.com>, Everarado Lalo Perez <lalo.perez@cityofpaloalto.org>, Eric
Filseth <efilseth@gmail.com>, Lydia Kou <lydiakou@gmail.com>, Greg Scharff
<gregscharff@aol.com>, Robert De Geus <robert.degeus@cityofpaloalto.org>, Mark Hur
<mark.hur@cityofpaloalto.org>, Joshuah Mello <joshuah.mello@cityofpaloalto.org>, Ed Lauung
<evlauing@yahoo.com>, Judy Klienberg <judy@paloaltochamber.com>, James Keene
<james.keene@cityofpaloalto.org>
Cc: Elaine Uang <elaine.uang@gmail.com>, Gabrielle Layton <strop@redjuice.com>, Simon Cintz
<cintzprops@gmail.com>, Benjamin Cintz <bcintz@gmail.com>, "Norman H. Beamer"
<nhbeamer@yahoo.com>, John Guislin <jguislin@gmail.com>, Gennady Sheyner
<gsheyner@paweekly.com>, Richard Brand <mmqos@earthlink.net>, "chopkeenan@yahoo.com"
<chopkeenan@yahoo.com>, Joe Baldwin <zbrcp1@comcast.net>, Reza Riahi
<reza@rezariahidds.com>, Melvin Matsumoto <mmatsumoto@channinghouse.org>, Mary Gallagher
<marygallagher88@gmail.com>, KJ and Fred Kohler <fkohler@sbcglobal.net>, Pat Burt Gmail
<patburt11@gmail.com>, Pat Devaney <devaney@stanford.edu>, Malcolm Beasley
<beasley@stanford.edu>, Sally-Ann Rudd <sallyann_r@yahoo.com>, Marion Odell
<marionodell7@gmail.com>, Susie and Gary Hornbeek <smillerhornbeek@yahoo.com>, Lauren Burton
<lauren@thinkgardens.net>, Irv Brenner <irvb@pacbell.net>, Janine Bisharat
<janine@karunaadvisors.com>, Sheri Furman <sheri11@earthlink.net>, Annette Glanckopf
<annette_g@att.net>, Allen Akin <akin@arden.org>, Ted Davids <tdavids@sonic.net>, Eric Rosenblum
<mitericr@gmail.com>, Steve Levy <slevy@ccsce.com>, Steve Raney <steve_raney@cities21.org>, Penny
Ellson <pellson@pacbell.net>, City Clerk <city.clerk@cityofpaloalto.org>, Dave Price
<price@padailypost.com>
Subject: Downtown Garage Utilization, Valet Services and City Budgets

       I am concerned that the Council's Finance Committee may not have adequate data to
       allocate resources and staff to the various programs balancing neighborhood RPPs and
       commercial core parking capacity. I am concerned that city policy and staff continue to
       place unnecessarily high non-resident vehicle loads on the 10 residential zones in the
       Downtown RPP.

       Downtown residents and I have been involved with downtown parking patterns for over
       6 years. My neighbors have worked very hard to make informed decisions and
       recommendations based on objective data. We have a history of generating reliable
       data far greater than city staff and consultants.

       We have strength in numbers, modest technical skills and an advantage of having eyes
       and feet on the ground on a daily basis.
                                                      1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/22/2018 2:20 PM

       Finally we are concerned that the Finance Committee may not have a complete picture
       of how High, Bryant and Cowper/Webster garages are utilized.

       Attached is a survey of garage utilization midday at various dates since February. Our
       data collection is focused on Wed/Thur data collections since those days tend to have
       the greatest demand for permit (all day) parking. We do not survey short-term 2-3 hour
       parking utilization, but we observe wide ranges of vacant spaces during the day. We do
       not survey weekends and holidays.

       We hope the attached worksheet is self-explanatory. It is a record of dozens of midday
       surveys since Feb 2018. Call me if you have questions.

       CONCLUSIONS

       Evaluation of 3 "promised" valet parking services

          1. High St. garage is extremely successful and demonstrates its promised potential.
          2. Bryant St. garage is operational only occasionally and fails to park vehicles in
             aisles most days. The root problem is that too few all-day permits are being
             sold.
          3. Cowper/Webster garage has no valet service and significant vacant spaces exist
             every working day. In fact, top level 6 of this garage may have never been
             utilized since it was built. Too few all-day permits are being sold and there are
             questions about management of wait lists.
          4. Philip Kamhi, before he resigned from city staff, outlined very creative program to
             improve "valet services" and to adapt to fluctuating workloads.


       Maximization of garage potential

          1. At least 50 more permits could be sold for Bryant garage without any
             deterioration is service level.
          2. At least 100 more permits could be sold for Cowper/Webster garage without any
             deterioration is service level.

       Improvement for residential neighborhoods

          1. Permits sales should be increased slowly and methodically to fill unused capacity
             in downtown city garages and surface lots.
          2. Downtown non-resident RPP permits should cease until city staff and Council
             can demonstrate higher levels of stewardship for downtown parking capacity and
             residential neighborhoods.
          3. Better utilization of city garages could relieve some of the hardships experienced
             by neighborhoods serving business such as Channing House and local dentists.

       IMPACT ON FY19-23 BUDGETS

          1. Full valet services should be cost effective. Discussions at the Finance
             Committee have not been clear to me and other stakeholders. Is the cost per
                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/22/2018 2:20 PM
             valet program about $110,000 per garage? If so, this is competitive with building
             any new garage space.
          2. What are contingency plans if there are inflationary cost runups on important
             capital improvements. Many capital projects and programs are more important
             and less urgent than $28M for Hamilton/Waverley garage. Putting 3 valet
             parking programs into operation next year is a strong hedge on capital cost
             escalations in the Capital Improvement Plan(CIP)




       Neilson Buchanan
       155 Bryant Street
       Palo Alto, CA 94301

       650 329-0484
       650 537-9611 cell
       cnsbuchanan@yahoo.com




                                                     3
    A         B            C             D        E    FG      H          I           J           K             L              M               N
1 Cowper/Webster and Bryant Garage Survey
2 Source: N. Buchanan cnsbuchanan@yahoo.com               650 537-9611
3 photographs are available for Bryant and Cowper/Webster daily surveys
4                                                                Available Capacity
                                                                                                                            Built In
                                                                      Untapped Untapped                                     Safety
                                                                                                 Total
                                                                       otential    potential              Potential for   Cushion for     Notes have
                                                                                                Vacant
                    time window Cowper/ Cowper/                     from staffed from staffed             additional         Peak         not been
                                                                                                Spaces
                     plus/minus Webster Webster           Bryant St     Valet        Valet                permit sales     Demand         consistently
 5                     10 min   Level 6    Level 5        Level 5     Parking** Parking***                @ 120%             Days         posted.
 6      Wed, Feb 14    1122am           68         17     no survey            20          26         131          157               46
 7      Wed, Feb 14    142pm            61         12     no survey            20          26         119          143               46
 8
 9      Thur, Feb 15    1207pm            70         13          13           20          26          142           170             46
10      Thur, Feb 15     205pm            58         13           2           20          26          119           143             46
11
12      Fri, Feb 16     1205pm            70         17          13           20          26          146           175            46 Holiday
13      Fri, Feb 16      159pm            75         33          21           20          26          175           210            46 Holiday
14
15      Wed, Feb 21     1155am            72         21           4           20          26          143           172             46
16      Wed, Feb 21     250pm             73         16           5           20          26          140           168             46
17
18      Thur, Feb 22    1150am            76         32          21           20          26          175           210             46
19      Thur, Feb 22    239pm             75         37           2           20          26          160           192             46
20
21      Fri, Feb 23     1159am            75         31          17           20          26          169           203             46
22      Fri, Feb 23     250pm             74         33          23           20          26          176           211             46
23
24      Tues, Feb 27 1201pm               64         15           5           20          26          130           156             46
25
26      Wed, Feb 28 1148am                67         17           0           20          26          130           156             46
27      Wed, Feb 28 154pm                 59         15           1           20          26          121           145             46
28
     A         B           C        D          E         FG   H        I        J        K         L         M         N
29       Thur, Mar 1 145pm              69          25             1       20       26       141       169       46
30
31       Fri, Mar 2    1201pm           69                         0
32
33       Mon, Mar 5 1150am              38           5
34       Mon, Mar 5 200pm               32           5             0       20       26        83       100       46
35
36       Tues, Mar 6 1159am             51           5             5       20       26       107       128       46
37       Tues, Mar 6 215pm                           5             2
38
39       Wed, Mar 7 1124am              58          10             7       20       26       121       145       46
40
41       Thurs, Mar 8 240pm             52          27             5       20       26       130       156       46
42
43       Frid, Mar 9   212pm            71          23             7       20       26       147       176       46
44
45       Mon, Mar12 121pm               29           0             0       20       26        75        90       46
46
47       Tues, Mar 13 116pm             46           3             0       20       26        95       114       46
48
49       Wed, Mar 14 1213pm             36           0             2       20       26        84       101       46
50
51       Thur, Mar 15 120pm             68           9             0       20       26       123       148       46
52
53       Wed, Mar28 1230pm              69           9             5       20       26       129       155       46
54
55       Thur, Mar 29 1230pm            76          48             5       20       26       175       210   Holiday
56
57       Frid, Mar 30 1230pm    no survey holiday                                                            Holiday
58
59       Mon, Apr 2                     68          12             5       20       26       131       157       46
60
61       Wed, Apr 18 1201pm             64          19            19       20       26       148       178       46
     A        B           C    D        E        FG   H        I        J        K         L         M             N
62
63       Thur, Apr 19 1220pm       62       21            12       20       26       141       169       46
64
65       Wed, Apr 25 1202pm        70       17            11       20       26       144       173       46
66

                                                                                                            Note: Valet at
                                                                                                            Bryant,
                                                                                                            enforcement
                                                                                                            giving tickets,
                                                                                                            city staff
                                                                                                            actively
                                                                                                            monitoring.
                                                                                                            No valet at
                                                                                                            Cowper/Web
                                                                                                            ster. Based
                                                                                                            on one day
                                                                                                            survey: More
                                                                                                            permits being
                                                                                                            sold from
                                                                                                            waiting
67       Wed, May 2 1245pm         56        8             3       20       26       113       136       46 lists???
68
                                                                                                            No valet at
69       Thur, May 3 1205pm        59       15            12       20       26       132       158       46 Bryant
70
                                                                                                              Note: 3
                                                                                                              Valet
                                                                                                              parked
                                                                                                              vehicles
71       Wed, May 9 154pm          71        7             3       20       26       127       152            observed
72
73       Thur, May 10 114pm        47       21            16       20       26       130       156            No valet at B
74
75       Mon, May 141201pm          4       37             5       20       26        92       110
     A         B               C             D            E        FG   H             I          J        K           L            M              N
76
77       Tues, May 15 207pm                       6           43            10             20        26       105         126
78

                                                                                                                                            Valet on
                                                                                                                                            duty, no
79       Fri, May 18    1236pm                   22           70            29             20        26       167         200               cars in aisles
80

                                                                                                                                            Valet on
                                                                                                                                            duty, no
81       Mon, May 21 1206pm                       8           49            10             20        26       113         136               cars in aisles
82
83
84       **Cowper Webster practical valet capacity is 50% of 40 possible valet parked vehicles
85       ***Bryant practical valet capacity is 50% of 52 possible valet parked vehicles
86
87       Please note that an analysis for High Street garage is not included due to lack of time. It is a role model for effective management
88       and for leveraging 5-day a week valet parking service expanding garage capacity by approximately 25-40+ parking space. As a result
89       City has been able to avoid unnecessary capital investment in garage structures.
                                                                                                7
        CITY OF
        PALO
        ALTO


TO:           HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

FROM:         RUMI PORTILLO, HUMAN RESOURCES DIRECTOR

DATE:         MAY 29, 2018

SUBJECT:      ADOPTION OF AN UPDATED SALARY SCHEDULE AND REVISED COMPENSATION
              PLAN FOR UNREPRESENTED LIMITED HOURLY EMPLOYEES EFFECTIVE JULY 1,
              2018-JUNE 30, 2021




Please note that the adoption of an updated salary schedule and revised compensation plan for
the unrepresented limited hourly employees has been moved out to a future council date in
order to better align with other administrative actions.




                s Director                                ·   Manager




                                                                                        1of1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/22/2018 2:32 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Kathy Durham <kfdurham@earthlink.net>
Sent:                           Monday, May 21, 2018 6:09 PM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        Agenda Item # 7 for Monday 5/21/18, Award of Charleston-Arastradero Corridor
                                Construction Projects



Dear Mayor Kniss and Members of the Palo Alto City Council:

Tonight, I urge you to approve the contract for constructing the final, fully vetted plans for physical
improvements that emerged from more than 15 years of engagement with a full range of the public on the
Charleston-Arastradero Corridor project. This project grew out of the 1998 Comprehensive Plan, and the public
process dates back to at least 2003. It’s come through two Bike/Pedestrian Plans, and an extraordinary number
of community outreach meetings, study sessions, thoughtful input from appointed commissions and boards, and
unanimous approvals by multiple City Councils.

This project is not and never has been a project pushed by some secretly powerful pro-bike forces as part of a
“bikes vs. cars” agenda. From the beginning, the goal was to update the 1950s style four lane roadway designed
for unsafe vehicle speeds in a residential area, but with a dual goal: maintaining through traffic travel times for
drivers while also implementing key safety improvements that reduce the risks faced by pedestrians and
bicyclists.

As someone who served on the City/School Traffic Safety Committee when this project began to be considered
in 2003, I can definitively say yes, the concerns of drivers and others opposing the project were heard. Many
changes were incorporated into the tweaks to the design during the last ten years of professional evaluation and
public process, including the recommended striping and signing for the "paint trial" and during the 2012 and
2014-15 public process as the project moved towards final design. It’s time to move forward now.

Last but not least: consider that making it safer for more students to bike or walk to school provide alternatives
to the families who are currently driving on Arastradero because they see that it's not safe. This would give
more space on the road for those drivers who truly have no alternative to getting where they need to go via
driving on the Charleston-Arastradero corridor. That's a benefit of investing in a real multi-modal road!

Thank you.

Kathy Durham




                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/23/2018 10:47 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                               Peter Lee <peterlee1108@gmail.com>
Sent:                               Tuesday, May 22, 2018 11:33 PM
To:                                 Council, City
Subject:                            Bike blvd project directly impact my day-to-day routine


Hi Palo Alto City Council, my name is Peter Lee, my family lives at 2675 Louis Rd, where the on‐going bike blvd project
runs directly through the front of my house. When we first got notified about the bike blvd project, we read the hand
out and it has only mentioned about raised bumps and shared road, and none of those seems like a serious issue to us.
However, as the project start digging our side walk and framing concrete, we came to realize that it's not as simple as
raised bumps, and shared road has different meaning then what we have expected. There has already been many safety
related concerns raised by the community already, and I agree with many of those concerns, so I won't go into those
again. But in addition to those safety issues, this project have direct impact to my family's day‐to‐day routine.


The most important impact to us is the raised curb:

1. I have a single lane drive way, the width of my drive way is narrow (11ft), and the street's car lanes are also very
narrow now (10ft each direction), the moment my car's bumper is out of the drive way it's blocking traffic. The narrow
drive way and the narrow car lane makes backing out of my drive way very challenge. I will need the clearance of both
direction traffic to back the car out no matter which direction I am backing out to, and with 8 stop signs (2 on each
direction and on each side of my house), cars are lined up impatiently trying to get over all those stop signs and very few
cars are welling to stop and let me out. I have once waited for nearly 3 minutes just to back out of the drive way (where
it used to take about 15~45 seconds before). And turning onto my drive way is also a challenge, since my driveway is
narrow and the car lane is so close to it, I need to cross my car to the opposite lane to turn into my driveway otherwise
the rear tire will hit the raised curb. In fact, I drove around in Palo Alto just trying to find an example of similar setup, but
I cannot find any, almost all the residential houses have rolled curb, some houses in downtown area have raised curb,
but they all have street parking, so they have more buffer area for turning, none of them has both raised curb and no
parking. I feel this is a safety risk to me.

2. We used to have rolled curb, where I used it as temperately parking whenever I need to switch cars out from my
tandem drive way, but now I have to drive my car half block away and come back and switch cars and drive it back if I
need to do that. And we have a 5yr old kid, meaning I need to get her in car1 seat, drive half block, unbuckle her, walk
back home, buckle her in car2, drive it half block, unbuckle her, then buckle her to car1, drive home, unbuckle her, walk
to car2 and buckle her again... If you can imagine the annoyance of this, it will now take me 10~15minute daily for
something that used to take only 1~2minutes.

3. I have no place to put the garbage/recycle bins on collection day now since the raised curb is now a planter area. Palo
Alto Green Waste company told me to just leave my bins on the side walk and they will pick it up, but what they did was
to manually push the bin to my driveway entrance and have the machine pick it up, and they just leave the empty bins at
the entrance of my drive way. Guess what I have to do when I get home at end of the day with bins blocking my drive
way? I have to drive my car to next block to park my car and walk back to move the bins and then go back to my car and
so I can drive it home.

4. Delivery truck has no where to park now, and of course they are not going to waste time park it at the next block, they
just stop right in front of my house and block the traffic while jumping down to drop off my package (I saw it through my
security camera). Of course this is not right, but seems most delivery persons don't care, and this actually would cause a
safety issue for the bike/cars behind it especially if car/bike tries to go around the truck via opposite lane.

                                                                1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/23/2018 10:47 AM



These may sound like minor issues to some, but when we have to deal with everyday, it's not so minor. It has become a
frustration point of the day to get in and out of the drive way, there is no room for error since everything is so narrow
now.

I wish the city would consider bring back rolled curb to my block, that way the above problems would all be solved as
rolled curb can be used as a buffer zone to temperately stop my car there when I switch out cars, and can be used to
widen my turn when I back out and get in my drive way, so I won't need clearance from both lanes, and I can place my
garbage bins on it for pick up, and delivery truck also has a place to stop without block traffic.



Thank for you reading my concerns.


Peter Lee

408‐480‐3268




                                                            2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:52 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                   Joseph Harwood <joseph.harwood@yahoo.com>
Sent:                                   Sunday, May 20, 2018 6:50 PM
To:                                     Council, City
Subject:                                Changes to Greer Road


I see the City is testing out changes to Greer Road, including putting in a roundabout. I am writing to strongly oppose these changes.

Similar to what has been done to Ross Road, this will be a danger to bicyclists. Traffic will back up beyond the circle during rush
hour as cars wait at the light, blocking cross traffic. The intersection containing the circle is simply too small for a traffic circle.

I feel these changes are being made by the Transportation Department for their own purposes, with no regard to what residents
want. All major changes like this should be voted on. The City government is unaccountable, unresponsive, and out of touch.

Joseph Harwood
542 Hilbar Lane




                                                                      1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/22/2018 2:35 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                          NTB <aarmatt@gmail.com>
Sent:                          Tuesday, May 22, 2018 7:22 AM
To:                            Council, City
Subject:                       Charleston-Arastradero Corridor Project



To Honorable Mayor Kniss and Council Members,

For those of us who have been involved with this project
since the very beginning, last night was an amazing moment.
It’s one we have long awaited but have never taken for granted.

Thank you for making it happen! You were the final link in a chain that
was started so many years ago. Once completed, Charleston-Arastradero
will be a road for which we will all be proud.

Once again, thank you.

Sincerely,
Nina Bell




                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/22/2018 2:38 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Betty Lum <bylum@pacbell.net>
Sent:                         Tuesday, May 22, 2018 12:54 PM
To:                           Council, City
Subject:                      Chrleston-Arastradero Corridor



Dear City Council Members,          The meeting was LONG, and you were most tolerant
having to listen to ALL the opinions re: Verizon Towers, and of course "the corridor"!

Thank you very much for understanding the importance of this project not only for the
residents along this corridor, but also for the numbers of people--pedestrians, bicyclists,
motorists, etc. who travel the route daily. We residents along the corridor are especially
grateful, for it will make entering and exiting our neighborhoods much safer. We eagerly
anticipate the start of this project knowing the resulting improvements. Many thanks
again!

Betty Y. Lum
4202 Suzanne Drive
650-493-6876
650-888-0377[c]




                                                     1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/22/2018 2:34 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                                 mark weiss <earwopa@yahoo.com>
Sent:                                 Monday, May 21, 2018 8:51 PM
To:                                   Council, City
Subject:                              Democracy v. corporate behemoth and cell phone towers



This is a distinct, or second letter on same topic and shows more of what my post, from a few years ago,
actually looks like, and full text.
Thanks,
Mark Weiss
candidate, for at least a few more precious minutes, for Palo Alto Human Relations commission, partial term, I
think???
Downtown North
but writing you at 8:48 as counsel for applicant sings his song, a not unpleasant warble


Plastic Alto with Mark Weiss
Musings on art, technology, culture, ornette




Skip to content
       Home
       About “Plastic Alto” : your source for jazz, rock, art and local politics in the 650
   ← Hard On the Y
                                          Syrett art at Roll Up Public Works SF →


   The Great Democracy Tap-out (of
   Palo Alto)
   Posted on April 5, 2011by markweiss86




                                                                 1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/22/2018 2:34 PM




               Giant robots from the future will eat all our trees!


   I watched our so-called leaders, both elected and appointed
   officials, “tap out” on Democracy, submit to their corporate
   overlords, sell out their constituents, one after another,
   gladly, gleefully, smilingly, willfully, by a margin of 12 to 2.
   (City Council, 8 to 1, last night; Plannning Commission, 4
   to 1, on Feb. 25). The lone dissenters, who stood with their
   neighbors, and against corporate greed and hegemony, if in
   futility, were first-term council member Karen Holman,
   and planning commissioner Arthur Keller.


   The rest of them threw their neighbors under the bus. They
   are willing to sacrifice at least and especially two people,
   Michelle Kraus and Jeffrey Jones, top floor residents at
   488 University Avenue, Hotel President, so as to not
   displease the corporate behemoth that is their master; who
   knows how many of the rest of us 59,000 they will sacrifice
   for the sake of their gadgets and consumerism, and their
   political ambitions (like to become the next Liz Kniss ); it’s
   also no coincidence that the bulk of these elected officials
   besides not being residentialist are also beholden to the
   leading local special interest; the top seven finishers in the
   2009 City Council race all had close ties and ample backing
   from real estate interests –not to confuse the distinction
   between special interests and corporate creep.


   To “tap out” is a term from submission wrestling wherein
   the combatant signals his or her submission by tapping the
                                                                  2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/22/2018 2:34 PM
   mat or saying “tap.” Metaphorically speaking, I watched
   our leaders signal their submission to the small army of
   corporate mouth-pieces well before the actual votes.


   Tapping out is like Roberto Duran saying “no mas” rather
   than continuing in the ring so as not to end up like Duk
   Koo Kim against Ray “Boom Boom” Mancini. But in
   politics, I would much rather see my representatives battle
   on than submit so readily.


   Even in the face of the so-called “Federal shot clock” (if you
   forgive the switch to basketball metaphors, from martial
   arts), wherein we were told that we would be sued in
   Federal Court if we didn’t submit fast enough, I would
   rather see Palo Alto conscientiously stand up to injustice
   rather than cave in so spinelessly. Indeed, I think we
   should instruct new city attorney Molly Stump to look into
   the ramifications of such civil disobedience.


   The large telecommunications company at issue here,
   according to the Wall Street Journal, spent $15 million
   lobbying Congress in Washington, D.C. to set the stage for
   these local events. They’ve moved the goal posts and re-
   marked all the fields. In effect, they and their ilk have
   packed the courts, the FCC and Congress with a pro-
   corporate lobby that to my (admittedly provinicial, naive,
   jeremiad) view spells the end of democracy as, for example,
   it was taught at Gunn High for 20 years by Clay Leo. Do
   you recall the terms “of the people, for the people, by the
   people?” If so, you’re a dinosaur! It’s now “for the
   company, by the company.”


   In 1819, Daniel Webster argued the rights of a small private
   college to defy the larger bullying local government, in the
   Dartmouth College case; Chief Justice Marshall’s ruling set
   the stage for what evolved into today’s corporate contract
   law, that crawled out of the muck. But in the ensuing 192
   years, corporations have in effect become the new
                                                     3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/22/2018 2:34 PM
   monarchies, a new Feudalism. Webster ironically enough
   ended doing more to help The Queen of England than he
   did for upstarts, activists and educators, who were his
   clients. (Today’s slick pols would not know Daniel Webster
   from Daniel Craig).


   I spoke to Karen Holman and Gail Price after the previous
   council meeting and said I philosophically opposed the
   applicant’s petition on anti-trust and pro-democracy/anti-
   corporate grounds; they looked at me with relatively blank
   faces, and seemed to not know what I was talking about.
   (Coincidentally, the next day’s papers reported that the two
   leading phone companies, including our applicant had
   merged, triggering some anti-trust discussion).


   A source in the Journal, Center for Responsive Politics aka
   OpenSecrets dot ORG tracks the role of corporate money in
   policy and said that the applicant was the leading lobbyist
   and the leading contributor to political campaigns. I also
   recall learning of an entity called POCLAD which tracks the
   encroachment of corporate influence into the public
   commons.


   When I chatted with someone (one of the dozen or so well-
   paid partisans, for the industry) in the lobby of City Hall
   and explained my concern, a member of the their team
   basically taunted me, from behind. “‘Corporate power’?!
   Hmmph!” he said, mockingly; it reminded me of the
   “woofs” of playground basketball. I was half expecting an
   elbow to the gullet.


   At first the sheer arrogance of the applicants was shocking.
   Then it reminded me of the 1951 Sci-Fi movie “The Day the
   Earth Stood Still.” These guys were like robots from the
   future, or superior life forms from a distant planet, telling
   us the new order: Resistance is futile! Submit now!



                                                     4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/22/2018 2:34 PM
   http://www.amazon.com/Day-Earth-Stood-
   Still/dp/B00005JKFR/ref=sr_1_4?s=dvd&ie=UTF8&qid=
   1306513336&sr=1-4


   The rhetoric toned down slightly at the City Council public
   hearing, but it was dismaying to see the way each council
   member (save Holman) submitted so easily. I felt like a
   Butler basketball fan watching a nightmare of really bad,
   unprecedented ineptitude (in Clark Kellog’s words) in
   shooting. Butler was 12 for 64; like I said, we were 2 for 14
   in terms of sticking up for the people.


   Here is if not an actual transcript a poetically true version
   of the exchange between three-time Mayor Larry Klein and
   the chief outside counsel of the applicant, as I saw it at last
   night’s public hearing:


   Klein: I’m a lawyer, too (TAP!), so I want to ask you about
   the term “quiet enjoyment.” A civil code in our state from
   the 1950s says tenants have some rights. We know that you
   spend millions on lobbying and close to billions on
   commercial brainwashing, so how do you get around what
   seems at surface to be believable and reasonable concerns
   from the affected residents, our neighbors?


   Corporate Slickie: Indeed you have some quaint words on
   your side, “quiet enjoyment.” Imagine those words written
   in tiny plain font, in gray tones not black, on a little piece of
   paper. We wrap that paper in a scrumptious mix of sugar
   and flour, colored, baked: a fortune cookie! We then wrap
   the fortune cookie in plastic. We buy the cookies in bags of
   50 count. There are 12 bags to a box, 40 boxes to a truck.
   We load the trucks into boxcars. Now picture this: I make
   $500 an hour, I wear nice suits, I pay $150 for my slick, not
   quite Jeff Bridges but not Mr. Smith from “The Matrix”
   either haircut, and though arrogant I am actually human: I
   have kids (at prep school, in Southern California). But my
   boss, my master, you do not, believe me, want to “F” with
                                                       5
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/22/2018 2:34 PM
   him!! (bang, bang — or air quotes). My boss, The Colossus,
   he eats the BOXCARS by enormous handfills, hand over
   fist, as much as he wants, whenever he wants, greedily,
   hungrily. He eats boxcars of cookies, I’ve described, cakes,
   dry goods, consumer devices, widgets — whatever you got
   — weapons, trees, I mean, lumber, packaging and all, steel
   containers, the entire boxcars. He then, um, poops it all
   out, a sea of poop bigger than a football field. Now you
   puny citizens and your “quiet enjoyment,” you have
   permission to sift silently through our soot, in search or
   your quaint and archaic values and principles, for now,
   until further notice.


   I may be over-stating the case, but if so I will gladly eat my
   words.


   edit to add, May 20, 2011: I posted a version of this on the
   website, as comments, of the Palo Alto Weekly, and a link
   back to here; I was reacting to the opinion piece authored
   by Leon Beauchman, who is the person I am referring to in
   paragraph 10, above, who “woofed” me in the lobby of City
   Hall. It turns out his is a former San Jose State basketball
   player! I said that El Palo Alto is beginning to look like a
   Christmas Tree in a Terry Gilliam or Philip K. Dick movie.



   Occasionally,
   advertisement
   You
   our paid
       can hide
            plans.
                 these
                 some
                  hereads
                       of your
                           completely
                               visitors by
                                        mayupgrading
                                             see an to one of
             UPGRADE NOW DISMISS MESSAGE



   Related


   Palo Alto's New Varsity and 'The Last Picture Waltz' initiativeIn
   "music"

   I. The set of all blind piano playersIn "jazz"

   Nancy Shepherd declares "No Yawping Zone"!In "Plato's Republic"



                                                          6
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/22/2018 2:34 PM




                      About markweiss86
                      Mark Weiss, founder of Plastic Alto blog, is a
                      concert promoter and artist manager in Palo Alto,
                      as Earthwise Productions, with background as
                      journalist, advertising copywriter, book store
                      returns desk, college radio producer, city council
                      and commissions candidate, high school basketball
                      player; he also sang in local choir, and fronts an
                      Allen Ginsberg tribute Beat Hotel Rm 32
                      View all posts by markweiss86 →



   This entry was posted in Plato's Republic, sports, words and tagged 488
   university, democracy, palo alto city council, president hotel. Bookmark
   the permalink. Edit



   ← Hard On the Y
                                              Syrett art at Roll Up Public Works SF →
   8 Responses to The Great Democracy Tap-
   out (of Palo Alto)

       1.           markweiss86 says:
            April 5, 2011 at 5:49 pm (Edit)


            Matt Bowling:
            http://www.paloaltohistory.com/hotelpresident.ht
            ml
            Reply




       2.           markweiss86 says:
            April 5, 2011 at 6:27 pm (Edit)


            Reply



       3.           Mark Weiss says:
                                                                     7
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/22/2018 2:34 PM
           April 5, 2011 at 6:45 pm (Edit)


           My source on tap out lore, especially “Fight” his
           book:
           http://www.eugenesrobinson.com/
           Reply


      4.           Mark Weiss says:
           April 9, 2011 at 10:16 am (Edit)


           Coincidentally, or not, as all 18 topics here, “art,
           technology, culture, ornette” are hermetically
           interwoven, Terry and I this a.m. were listening to
           the lone Mingus cd left in her collection, an obscure
           live recording on Enja, of a Jaki Byard composition,
           in preparation for what will be a whole week’s worth
           of Mingusisms (Mingus Big Band at Stanford Lively
           Arts Wednesday, plus a lecture Sunday, a clinic I
           may sneak into at Gunn day of show, maybe an
           improptu concert at Lytton Plaza), “AT-FW-YOU”
           which actually stands for Art Tatum and Fats
           Waller. We are off to Rasputin’s to remedy, probably
           with Mingus Ah Um or maybe, if feeling bold Black
           Saint and Sinner Lady.
           Reply


      5.           Mark Weiss says:
           April 10, 2011 at 5:04 pm (Edit)


           from PBS tv “Ebert at Movies: Nell The Movie
           Mom”:


           Reply



      6.           markweiss86 says:
           April 12, 2011 at 2:37 pm (Edit)




                                                     8
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/22/2018 2:34 PM

           A propos of this topic the FCC’s Julius Genachowski
           is speaking at Computer Museum in Mountain View
           on April 14, via the Commonwealth Club.
           http://www.commonwealthclub.org/events/2011-
           04-14/julius-genachowski-chairman-fcc
           Reply




      7.           markweiss86 says:
           April 13, 2011 at 1:23 pm (Edit)


           Steve Coleman’s “Resistance is Futile”


           Reply

           54 years of liberal arts education down the drain....




                                                                   9
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/22/2018 2:32 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                            mark weiss <earwopa@yahoo.com>
Sent:                            Monday, May 21, 2018 8:35 PM
To:                              Council, City
Cc:                              Carnahan, David; Holman, Karen (external); Arthur Keller
Subject:                         doomed to repeat history? Phone industry v. we the palo alto



Hi,
I got thru a wee bit of this in one minute at council. I published this on my blog "Plastic Alto" and also, in part,
in comment board of the local paper online.

Thnaks for your service.

"The Great Democracy Tap Out"

i want to give a shout out to my freshman roommate Brian Xavier Gaul, who is Assistant General Counsel for
Verizon in Washington DC, and express my condolences regarding the loss of his beloved wife Eleonora Sunshine.

(Pause)

There are good people on both sides of this issue…It’s a blessing we have this forum to discuss this. We are lucky.
A lot of places no longer have this.

(David C should plug in my lap top to Democracy Tap out wordpress)

https://markweiss86.wordpress.com/2011/04/05/the-great-democracy-tap-out-of-palo-alto/




Progress, far from consisting in change, depends on retentiveness. When change is absolute there remains no
being to improve and no direction is set for possible improvement: and when experience is not retained, as among
savages, infancy is perpetual. Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it. (George
santayana, 1906)


I watched our so-called leaders, both elected and appointed officials, “tap out” on Democracy,
submit to their corporate overlords, sell out their constituents, one after another, gladly, gleefully,
smilingly, willfully, by a margin of 12 to 2. (City Council, 8 to 1, last night; Plannning Commission, 4
to 1, on Feb. 25). The lone dissenters, who stood with their neighbors, and against corporate greed
and hegemony, if in futility, were first-term council member Karen Holman, and planning
commissioner Arthur Keller.
The rest of them threw their neighbors under the bus. They are willing to sacrifice at least and
especially two people, Michelle Kraus and Jeffrey Jones, top floor residents at 488 University
Avenue, Hotel President, so as to not displease the corporate behemoth that is their master; who
knows how many of the rest of us 59,000 they will sacrifice for the sake of their gadgets and
consumerism, and their political ambitions (like to become the next Liz Kniss* ); it’s also no
coincidence that the bulk of these elected officials besides not being residentialist are also beholden
to the leading local special interest; the top seven finishers in the 2009 City Council race all had
close ties and ample backing from real estate interests –not to confuse the distinction between
special interests and corporate creep.

                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/22/2018 2:32 PM
To “tap out” is a term from submission wrestling wherein the combatant signals his or her
submission by tapping the mat or saying “tap.” Metaphorically speaking, I watched our leaders
signal their submission to the small army of corporate mouth-pieces well before the actual votes.
Tapping out is like Roberto Duran saying “no mas” rather than continuing in the ring so as not to
end up like Duk Koo Kim against Ray “Boom Boom” Mancini. But in politics, I would much rather
see my representatives battle on than submit so readily.
Even in the face of the so-called “Federal shot clock” (if you forgive the switch to basketball
metaphors, from martial arts),wherein we were told that we would be sued in Federal Court if we
didn’t submit fast enough, I would rather see Palo Alto conscientiously stand up to injustice rather
than cave in so spinelessly. Indeed, I think we should instruct new city attorney Molly Stump to look
into the ramifications of such civil disobedience....

(In the piece itself is a reference to the NCAA finals that year, the night before, comparing our
leaders to the performance of Butler basketball, who had a really, really bad night...)

Plastic alto with Mark Weiss, posted April 5, 2011, only 7 years ago.
The Great Democracy Tap-out (of Palo Alto)

                                       Giant robots from the future will eat all our trees!


This guy works for the applicant, one of the world's largest corporations. He is paid to write this. He was paid to speak
at the various public hearings, yet for some reason he never identifies himself as an employee of that firm -- what's
up with that? I wonder if his company beyond paying Leon offered Palo Alto Weekly money to run this piece. It
probably more rightly should have been a full page ad labeled ADVERTISEMENT or, if it were my paper, CORPORATE
PROPAGANDA. The applicant, according to Wall Street Journal is the leading contributor to political campaigns and
spends the most on lobbyists. (I wonder if they lobby locally -- is that what Joint Venture is? A lobby for corporate
interests? I wonder what founding executive who we knew of originally as a school board stalwart Becky Morgan
thinks of what it has become..)
In the lobby of City Hall one night, as I was discussing with a another attendee my position -- pro-resident and
therefore suspicious of huge corporations telling us what is best for us, or worse, that we are not allowed by Federal
law they paid for to resist at all, on certain grounds, or only within a "shot clock" - this is basketball now? -- Leon
Beauchman, without identifying himself stood behind me and taunted -- I called it "woofing" in my blog -- "Corporate
power? Harumph!!!"

Beyond the health issues, beyond the intrusions, beyond the aesthetics I oppose this based on anti-trust grounds, the
entities involved are "disturbing" -- that's a web 2.0 buzzword -- democracy. I don't mind the dropped calls; I am
more worried about Big Brother some day deciding that dissidents, mavericks, non-comformists, cranks and
loudmouths should be removed from the system, and they know where we are at every moment thanks to GPS. Look
at China and Ai Weiwei. Our "extraordinary rendition" and elimination of habeus corpus is not so different.

I thought the arrogance of the corporate slickies was appalling. And I was disappointed at how council and
commissions caved so easily to the pressure.


He probably still is a pretty good basketball player; played for SJSU.


....

My main point is that we should discuss these things and not operate at the speed of the industry. "Health issues" is
probably too strong a term. "Health questions" "health concerns"
I am referencing the phones not the towers here. And yes, I continue to use the product. But like I said above, I
would put up with a few dropped calls to preserve some aesthetics and not feel that I am on their farm.

The link above is New York Times Feb. 22, 2011 "Cellphone Use Tied To Changes In Brain Activity" Puzzling evidence
as David Byrne might say.

...
                                                                2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/22/2018 2:32 PM
I actually left my smart phone home tonight it was charging, and I left a little note to my wife “at council” and I put a
little smiley face but for some reason started to make the eyes of “s”s not unlike dollar signs.. I came for another item
and stayed to speak out on this.

also I was pleased to see Dr. Cindy Russell here tonight, who I met 25 years ago when she co-chaired Bay Area Action
Earthday at Stanford,which changed my life. She hasn’t changed a bit.

Mark Weiss
Downtown North

*I actually find her quite charming and voted for her in 2014, and told her so.




                                                            3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/18/2018 4:26 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Ellen Uhrbrock <ellen.uhrbrock@gmail.com>
Sent:                          Wednesday, May 16, 2018 4:00 PM
To:                            Council, City
Subject:                       Employee Parking Permits



I've lived in Palo Alto for 50 years and I was a CAC for Comprehensive Plan 2030 - If you can't park, you
can't live or work in Palo Alto.

I live in Channing House and depend on 24 hour service. So do my neighbors, and I watch businesses
fail for expense or lack of parking for employees. You are a non-profit if your employees have to run out and
move a car - in the middle of closing a sale.

Do not cut the RPP for sale to business with employees who need them. Freeze the number - RRP is working in
most areas - okay to juggle - okay to freeze the number - it's not okay to cut the number of passes for low
income employees.

Thanks -

Ellen Uhrbrock

Ellen E. Uhrbrock
ellen.uhrbrock@gmail.com




                                                      1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:53 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                        Helyn MacLean <hmaclean@aol.com>
Sent:                                        Monday, May 21, 2018 7:28 AM
To:                                          Council, City
Subject:                                     First Baptist Church


Dear City Council Members:

On Monday, May 14, Rick Mixon, pastor of First Baptist Church, said to Council that he would never rent church space to an organization like the NRA. On
Saturday, May 19, the Chinese Rifle Association hosted a fundraiser for a political candidate at First Baptist. The Chinese Rifle Association is a gun rights
organization. (https://www.sayweee.com/article/view/h9lmg?from=previous_article). While I realize that Pastor Mixon was not testifying under oath,
shouldn’t truthfulness matter? I believe this speaks to neighbors’ concerns about the motives and integrity of First Baptist Church and its staff.

Sincerely,

Helyn MacLean




                                                                              1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/22/2018 2:39 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Carnahan, David
Sent:                              Tuesday, May 22, 2018 2:24 PM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           FW: Fleming/United Neighbors Comments
Attachments:                       Fleming-United Neighbors Opening 5-21-18.doc; Fleming-United Neighbors Rebuttal
                                   5-21-18.doc


Good afternoon Council Members,

Find correspondence from Jeanne Fleming below and attached.

  David Carnahan, Deputy City Clerk, MPA
  O: 650‐329‐2267 | E: david.carnahan@cityofpaloalto.org



From: Jeanne Fleming [mailto:jfleming@metricus.net]
Sent: Tuesday, May 22, 2018 12:59 PM
To: Carnahan, David <David.Carnahan@CityofPaloAlto.org>
Subject: Fleming/United Neighbors Comments

Dear David,

Thank you again for your help last night.

Unfortunately, I forgot to give you a copy of my comments. I am attaching a copy of them now, and I
would appreciate it if you would add them to the public record.

Please let me know if this is OK.

Finally, I have a question: When the timer at the podium in Council chambers says
“Summarize,” how many minutes are left on the timer?

Again, thank you.

Jeanne

Jeanne Fleming
JFleming@Metricus.net
650-325-5151




                                                           1
Fleming/United Neighbors Opening (5/21/18):


On behalf of United Neighbors, I’m appealing former Director Gitelman’s decision to
allow Verizon to install hundreds of pounds of unsightly cell tower equipment on utility
poles within yards of each of 11 homes—equipment that should be located in
underground vaults.

Thank you for hearing our appeal.

I’ll start by briefly recapping the Architectural Review Board process that preceded the
Director’s decision.

A year ago, the ARB developed a thoughtful set of criteria for the siting and installation
of cell towers in our residential neighborhoods.

The ARB developed these criteria to ensure that Verizon and other telecom companies
would abide by Palo Alto’s aesthetics, noise and other ordinances—that is, to ensure
that the character of our wonderful neighborhoods would be preserved.

And just for the record: The ARB’s criteria are consistent with state and federal law, with
Palo Alto’s wireless ordinance and with the Master License.

Applying these criteria, the ARB decided last December that Verizon’s applications to
install its ugly ancillary equipment on the utility poles in front of 11 Palo Alto homes
should be rejected.

In doing so, the ARB directed Verizon to return with new plans—plans that would place
this equipment underground at each site.

In other words, the ARB decided that, for Verizon to conform to City ordinances, vaulted
equipment was required.

In March, Verizon claimed it was infeasible to locate its equipment underground at any
of its proposed sites. This assertion—which is, as I’ll explain, demonstrably false—led
to the then-Director’s decision to allow pole-mounted equipment.

What really happened is this: Verizon deliberately misled City Staff, the ARB and Ms
Gitelman about the feasibility of undergrounding. Why? Because vaulted equipment is
more expensive to install and maintain than pole-mounted equipment.

In fact, Verizon, along with other cell providers, have vaulted their equipment—or have
submitted plans to vault their equipment—in many California cities—cities such as
Santa Cruz, Montecito, Rancho Palos Verdes, Piedmont and Santa Barbara. For
example:

      Photos 1 and 2: Here are Verizon’s own photo simulations of two of eight
      vaulted sites it has proposed for Piedmont. You can scarcely tell there’s a cell
      tower at these sites, or at the other six.

      Photo 3: This shows a telecom vault in Rancho Palos Verdes.

      Photo 4: This is the plan for a vault Verizon installed in Montecito.

      Photo 5: Here’s a cell tower in Santa Barbara that has vaulted equipment.

       Photo 6: This is a Verizon vault in Santa Cruz. You can see that—just as with
      the vaults in all the other photos—it’s completely flush-to-the ground and there are
      no protruding elements. See how the stroller that’s half on and half off the vault
      cover is completely stable? These vaults are all ADA compliant.

      Photo 7: Here’s another Verizon flush-to-the-ground cell tower vault in Santa
      Cruz.

My point is this: If the hundreds of pounds of ancillary equipment that cell towers
require can be vaulted in these cities, it can be in vaulted in Palo Alto as well.

Verizon, though, says it cannot, but for reasons that are completely disingenuous and
self-serving. For example, Verizon says that some of the sites it’s proposed in Palo Alto
are in a 100-year flood zone, hence the radios could get wet.

But 100 percent waterproof radios exist, and so do 100 percent waterproof
telecommunications vaults. Indeed, we would be happy to provide Verizon with contact
information for the company whose vaults withstood Hurricane Harvey in Texas.

Verizon also claims there are physical impediments to undergrounding at some sites—it
says, for example, that one pole’s near an ADA ramp. Well, here’s a photo of a
telecommunications vault that’s located in an ADA ramp. (Exhibit A) Again, we’d be
glad to direct Verizon to the manufacturer.

Verizon also asserts that rolled curbs make vaulting infeasible, that it doesn’t know how
to engineer a rolled vault cover.

Well, I spoke with a representative of Oldcastle, a company that manufactures vaults for
Verizon. And when I asked if a rolled lid was feasible, he laughed and said, “Of course
we could do it. Anything is possible for a big client like Verizon.”
More generally, if Verizon would simply use a coaxial cable that’s longer than the 100
feet it prefers, there is virtually nothing it can’t work around.

Then, there’s the issue of noise. Verizon’s fallback position in every community that has
resisted hanging hundreds of pounds of ancillary equipment on poles is that vaulted
equipment is unacceptably noisy. Not so.

Exhibit B: For example, here’s a geothermally-cooled, ventless vault. It is completely
silent.

Moreover, according to experts hired by Piedmont, if the exhaust fan in a vented vault
produces too much noise, simply replacing it with a quieter model solves the problem.
There are other fixes too, but I don’t have time to list them.

My point is, there are solutions for every so-called engineering problem Verizon raises.
The only problem is that these solutions can cost more money than Verizon wants to
spend. But there is absolutely no reason why Palo Alto should compromise the
character of its lovely neighborhoods to save Verizon money.

To be clear: We in United Neighbors like our smart phones, want good cell phone
service and are intrigued by 5G.

But we ask that you, City Council, require Verizon to do this right and vault the ancillary
equipment at each of these eleven sites.

Thank you for listening. I’d be happy to answer any questions.
Fleming/United Neighbors Rebuttal (5/21/18):
Thank you again for hearing United Neighbors’ appeal.
So … It seems that Verizon has never met a vault it likes, including its own.
Why? Because vaulted equipment is more expensive to install and maintain than pole-
mounted equipment.
And it’s also why Verizon has been blowing smoke about the feasibility of vaulting ever
since it arrived in town. But please consider this:
      Even though we’re in the very early days of the ramp up to 5G, Verizon has
      already proposed or installed vaulted equipment in other California cities,
      including Santa Cruz, Montecito, Rancho Palos Verdes, Piedmont and Santa
      Barbara.
      Here in Palo Alto, six of the 11 cell tower sites that Verizon chose are in a 100-
      Year Flood Zone—in other words, in locations where floods could conceivably
      occur. But somehow no other sites will do for them. And as for using the 100
      percent water-proof radios and 100 percent water-proof vaults that are available,
      sorry, they’re not interested.
      Then there are the so-called physical impediments to vaulting Verizon ticks off for
      the other five sites. Not one stands up to scrutiny.
      They cite rolled curbs. But their own supplier, Oldcastle, says they’d be happy to
      manufacture a rolled vault cover for Verizon.
      Proximity to an ADA ramp? We’d be happy to direct Verizon to a manufacturer
      that installs telecom vaults in ADA ramps.
      Proximity to things which can’t be displaced, like tree roots? All Verizon needs to
      do is buy longer coaxial cables, and they can work around just about anything.
      Finally, there’s Verizon’s ultimate fallback: Vaulted equipment is noisy. It
      certainly doesn’t have to be. Geo-thermally cooled vaults eliminate noise all
      together. And simple fixes such as fans designed to be quiet, and insulation,
      greatly reduce noise in conventional vaults.
The bottom line is, the so-called engineering problems Verizon claims prevent it from
vaulting are all bogus.
They’re not problems, they’re expenses Verizon is trying to avoid.
Well, there’s no reason why we in Palo Alto should sacrifice the character of our
wonderful neighborhoods to save money for a company whose revenues are $250
Billion a year.
We at United Neighbors ask Council to prohibit Verizon from hanging its ugly, oversized
equipment on the utility poles in our residential neighborhoods—equipment that will
remain here for generations to come—when locating this equipment underground is
eminently feasible.
Please overturn former Director Gitelman’s decision. It was based on Verizon’s
misinformation.
And, if you don’t do that, please modify her decision’s Condition of Approval #9 so that it
reads:

       9. VAULTING OF EQUIPMENT: This approval requires vaulting of
       equipment, except the antenna, power disconnect, and conduit, at each of
       the following 11 sites:

       I won’t read off the list, but I’m referring to the 11 sites we’ve been considering
       tonight.

              Node #129: CPAU Pole #3121; (2490 Louis Road)
              Node #130, CPAU Pole #2461; (2802 Louis Road)
              Node #131, CPAU Pole #3315; (891 Elbridge Way)
              Node #133E, CPAU Pole #2856; (949 Loma Verde Avenue)
              Node #134, CPAU Pole #2964; (3409 Kenneth Drive)
              Node #135, CPAU Pole # 3610; (795 Stone Lane)
              Node #137, CPAU Pole #3351; (3090 Ross Road)
              Node #138, CPAU Pole #2479;(836 Colorado Avenue)
              Node #143, CPAU Pole #3867; (419 El Verano Avenue)
              Node #144, CPAU Pole #1506; (201 Loma Verde Avenue)
              Node #145, CPAU Pole# 3288. (737 Loma Verde Avenue)

       And now continuing:

       It is City Council’s finding that vaulting is the least intrusive feasible means
       for deployment of small cell nodes at each of these 11 sites.

Thank you for listening. I’d welcome any questions you have.
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:52 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Sent:                             Monday, May 21, 2018 12:42 AM
To:                               dennisbalakian; David Balakian; Dan Richard; Doug Vagim; Daniel Zack; hennessy;
                                  huidentalsanmateo; Mayor; Mark Kreutzer; midge@thebarretts.com;
                                  info@superide1.com; francis.collins@nih.gov; Irv Weissman; beachrides; Leodies
                                  Buchanan; bballpod; bearwithme1016@att.net; blackstone@blastfitness.com; terry;
                                  paul.caprioglio; Cathy Lewis; Council, City; esmeralda.soria@fresno.gov; Steven
                                  Feinstein; fmerlo@wildelectric.net; Raymond Rivas; steve.hogg; jerry ruopoli; Joel Stiner;
                                  kfsndesk; kclark; newsdesk; rosenheim@kpix.cbs.com; nick yovino; yicui@stanford.edu;
                                  shanhui.fan@stanford.edu
Subject:                          Fwd: British PM May will laud AI in early disease diagnosis. Nvidia big player.




---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Mon, May 21, 2018 at 12:35 AM
Subject: Re: British PM May will laud AI in early disease diagnosis. Nvidia big player.
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>




On Mon, May 21, 2018 at 12:31 AM, Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org> wrote:


 On Sun, May 20, 2018 at 10:55 PM, Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org> wrote:

           Sunday, May 20, 2018

           To all- British PM Teresa May will praise the power of AI to detect disease early. Nvidia is a
 major player in this.



           http://www.bbc.com/news/health-44191444


              I wish someone of similar rank in the U.S. government gave this development equal attention. It
 will save a lot of lives.

             As an Nvidia stockholder, I've been emailing about this for days. Maybe I'm read in Britain.

             Nvidia's tech can enhance the power of medical imaging to detect cancer. Lung, breast and prostate
 c. are better detected using Nvidia tech. Stanford proved that AI can detect skin c. as well as a dermatologist
 can. Nvidia's tech can work with CT scans and biopsy slides using current machines and microscopes in clinics
 and hospitals all over the world.

                                                            1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/22/2018 2:37 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                                NOC Fiber Internet Center <noc@FiberInternetCenter.com>
Sent:                                Tuesday, May 22, 2018 10:55 AM
To:                                  Council, City
Subject:                             [Fwd: RE: Palo Alto Fiber Issue]


Your fiber department is not run by educated people. While they have been in place a long time they have learned
nothing from Kenny, Mark and Scott.
All of whom retired recently, now there is no one with knowledge running the crews.

Somehow sales now runs the tech side ?

Thank You
Bob Evans
CTO



‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Original Message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
Subject: RE: Palo Alto Fiber Issue
From: "NOC Fiber Internet Center" <noc@FiberInternetCenter.com>
Date: Tue, May 22, 2018 10:50 am
To: "Ward, Brian" <Brian.Ward@CityofPaloAlto.org>
Cc: "bob@FiberInternetCenter.com" <bob@fiberinternetcenter.com>
       "Gus Sanchez" <gus@fiberinternetcenter.com>
       "noc@fiberinternetcenter.com" <noc@fiberinternetcenter.com>
       "Johnson, Ryan" <ryan.johnson@cityofpaloalto.org>
       "Wallace, Josh" <josh.wallace@cityofpaloalto.org>
‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐


Oh my ...I cant believe this email. This email borders ‐‐‐‐ will do I have to say it ?


Thank You
Bob Evans
CTO


> Bob and Gus,
>
> From the City of Palo Alto's perspective, we have tried to evaluate
> and pinpoint where your fault maybe. However with FIC going in and out
> of so many buildings, LIKE 3333 Coyote Hill, PARC, which according to
> you is no longer a customer, it's hard to determine the fault. We
> cannot and will not go into a customer site to determine if FIC has
> fault. What we can tell you and we have told you already, with so many
> daisy chains going in and out of buildings the potential fault is

                                                                1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/22/2018 2:37 PM
> endless. Please tell us what you would like us to do?
>
> Kindest regards,
>
> Brian
>
>
>
> Brian Ward
> Key Account Manager
> City of Palo Alto Utilities
>
> 250 Hamilton Avenue | Palo Alto, CA 94301
>
> D: 650.329.2251 C: 650.740.7846 | E: brian.ward@cityofpaloalto.org
>
> Please think of the environment before printing this email ‐ Thank you!
>
>
> ‐‐‐‐‐Original Message‐‐‐‐‐
> From: Johnson, Ryan
> Sent: Tuesday, May 22, 2018 9:41 AM
> To: Wallace, Josh; Ward, Brian
> Subject: FW: Palo Alto Fiber Issue
>
>
>
> ‐‐‐‐‐Original Message‐‐‐‐‐
> From: NOC Fiber Internet Center [mailto: ]
> Sent: Tuesday, May 22, 2018 8:34 AM
> To: Johnson, Ryan
> Cc: noc@FiberInternetCenter.com
> Subject: RE: Palo Alto Fiber Issue
>
> Ryan
> FYI this has been going on for weeks. Support from the department has
> been worse than poor. To pay what we get charged per building and be
> told ‐ we dont have time for this is horrible.
>
> Thank You
> Bob Evans
> CTO
>
>
>> Phillip,
>>
>> Our crew is investigating issue between properties right now. I will
>> get back to you when we come to a conclusion.
>>
>> Thank you,
>>

                                                           2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/22/2018 2:37 PM
>>
>> Ryan Johnson
>> Traffic Signal/Streetlights/Fiber Optics Lead City of Palo Alto
>> Office
>> 650‐838‐2848 Cell 650‐444‐5986
>>
>>
>>
>> ‐‐‐‐‐Original Message‐‐‐‐‐
>> From: Phillip Mueller [mailto:phillipm@FiberInternetCenter.com]
>> Sent: Monday, May 21, 2018 4:07 PM
>> To: Johnson, Ryan
>> Cc: noc@fiberinternetcenter.com
>> Subject: Palo Alto Fiber Issue
>>
>> We are currently experiencing issues with the fiber between our
>> routers at
>> 4005 Miranda and Palo Alto Square Building 5.
>>
>> A 1 gig SFP with a 20km range works fine between these locations. A
>> 10 gig SFP with a 20km range sees roughly 50% packet loss. A 10 gig
>> SFP with a 40km range sees roughly 1% packet loss, which is much
>> lower but still unacceptable.
>>
>> We have tried everything we can on our end. We've swapped out
>> routers, fiber, equipment; the issue is consistent.
>>
>> One possible source of the issue is that there are a number of
>> locations between these two routers where we used to have routers.
>> According to former employees of the City of Palo Alto, after leaving
>> these locations instead of being spliced out we were just looped.
>>
>> 4005 Miranda ‐ Router
>> 1891 Page Mill ‐ Looped
>> 1701 Page Mill ‐ Looped
>> 3333 Coyote Road ‐ Looped
>> Palo Alto Square Building five ‐ Router
>>
>> Since we don't have access to 1891 Page Mill, 1701 Page Mill, or 3333
>> Coyote Road there isn't anything we can do to determine if this is
>> where the fiber issues are taking place.
>>
>> Do you have any OTDR readings?
>>
>> Thank You
>> Phillip Mueller
>> Fiber NOC Tech
>> 650‐330‐0428 ext 2
>> noc@FiberInternetCenter.com
>>
>>

                                                           3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/22/2018 2:37 PM
>>
>
>
>
>




                                                     4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/23/2018 10:46 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Gail Price <gail.price3@gmail.com>
Sent:                          Tuesday, May 22, 2018 3:04 PM
To:                            Gail Price
Subject:                       Fwd: Reminder: Nominations for the 2018 Kiwanis Angel Award due June 1, 2018



Dear Friends, The Kiwanis Club of a Palo Alto is seeking nominations for the 7th Annual Angel Award. The
nomination form
Www.kiwanisangelaward.org. Please consider nominating an individual who has made significant contributions
toward the well being of children and youth in our community.

Thank you
Gail Price

Sent from my iPhone

Begin forwarded message:

       From: Jim Stinger <jstinger3@comcast.net>
       Date: May 22, 2018 at 1:11:49 PM PDT
       To: Gail <gail.price3@gmail.com>
       Subject: Reminder: Nominations for the 2018 Kiwanis Angel Award due June 1, 2018
       Reply-To: Jim Stinger <jstinger3@comcast.net>




                                                 Dear Community Members,
                      The 2018 Kiwanis 7th Annual Angel Award will take place at the Sheraton Palo Alto
                        on Thursday, October 25, 2018 at 5:30pm. We welcome and encourage you to
                                                              submit
                      nominations regarding individuals who have had a significant and positive impact on
                       children and youth in Palo Alto and the Mid-Peninsula. The Kiwanis Angel Award
                           nomination form is attached. You may download the form by clicking here
                      Thank you for considering our request and we hope you will submit a nomination by
                                                           June 4, 2018.


                                                               Best,
                                            2018 Kiwanis Angel Award Committee
                                                      Chair Jim Stinger




                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/23/2018 10:46 AM




                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/23/2018 10:46 AM




                          Copyright © 2018 Kiwanis Club of Palo Alto Charitable Foundation, All rights reserved.
                                                Members of the Kiwanis Club of Palo Alto


                                                        Our mailing address is:
                                             Kiwanis Club of Palo Alto Charitable Foundation
                                                               P.O. Box 149
                                                       Palo Alto, CA 94302-0149


                                                      Add us to your address book




                                             Want to change how you receive these emails?
                                      You can update your preferences or unsubscribe from this list




                                                           3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/18/2018 4:37 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Liana Crabtree <lianacrabtree@yahoo.com>
Sent:                            Thursday, May 17, 2018 10:53 AM
To:                              registrar@rov.sccgov.org; Benitez, Wayne
Cc:                              Council, City; jean.anton@cob.sccgov.org; leConge Ziesenhenne, Monique; Steve
                                 Chessin; alice.smith@gmail.com
Subject:                         Illegal Petition Circulation in front of the Mitchell Park Library, 6/15/2018, 6:15 pm



Dear Office of the Registrar of Voters and Sergeant Wayne Benitez, Palo Alto Police Department:

NOTE: While I serve as a Library Commissioner for the City of Cupertino, I write to you today as a Santa Clara
County resident only and not as a spokesperson for the Library Commission. The views expressed here are
entirely my own.

At approximately 6:15 pm on Wednesday, 5/16/2018, I observed a person collecting petition signatures in front
of the Mitchell Park Library. The Mitchell Park Library is a host site for an inside drop-off box for mail-in
ballots.

Election Law prevents petition circulation of any kind within 100 feet of a polling site, which includes drop-off
boxes for mail-in ballots.

Shannon Bushey, SCC ROV, clarified in her comments to the Santa Clara County Library District Joint Powers
Authority Board on 4/26/2018 that the 100 foot “no campaigning” zone encircling ballot boxes located inside
buildings begins at the entrance of the building where the ballot box is located (and is not measured from the
ballot box itself).

While I did not have my tape measure with me, I counted approximately 19 paces from the entrance to the
library to the location where the petition circulator was standing.

At the time, I informed 2 library staff members about the petition circulator. One staff member volunteered that
petition circulation is not permitted within 100 feet of a ballot box, but was not aware that the 100 foot distance
is measured from the entrance to the building where the ballot box is located.

I asked the library staff members what guidance they had received from the Office of the SCC ROV regarding
what to do if they observed any problems associated with the ballot box. Neither staff member was aware of any
specific guidance regarding care and handling of the ballot box beyond the knowledge that someone from the
Office of the SCC ROV will come twice a week to remove the collected ballots.

I contacted the non-emergency number for the Palo Alto Police Dept to report the illegal petition circulation,
but was unable to wait for the responding officer to arrive. I spoke with the responding officer, Sergeant Wayne
Benitez by phone following his contact with the petition circulator.

In our conversation, Sergeant Benitez identified two challenges for law enforcement regarding the current
ballot box arrangement at Mitchell Park Library:

(1) There is no signage outside the library indicating that the library is a polling site and that campaigning,
including petition signature gathering of any kind, is forbidden within 100 feet of a polling site.
                                                            1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/18/2018 4:37 PM

(2) There are no physical markings anywhere around the library to indicate where the 100 foot distance from the
polling site begins or ends.

Please consider how difficult it will be for law enforcement to protect the “silent” zone surrounding the ballot
box at Mitchell Park Library when it is not possible to identify that the library is a polling site by looking at the
building from the outside. Law enforcement is also challenged because very few people are aware that
campaigning is not permitted within 100 feet of unsupervised ballot drop-off boxes nor are they aware of how
the 100 foot distance is measured.

HERE ARE MY QUESTIONS:

(1) How will the Office of the SCC ROV support law enforcement in Palo Alto and throughout Santa Clara
County in their efforts to maintain “no campaigning” zones surrounding polling sites, given the now
documented deficiencies related to signage and non-existent limit line markers (100-foot radius from the polling
site)?

(2) How will the Office of the SCC ROV support law enforcement in Palo Alto and throughout Santa Clara
County regarding training to support new and existing laws affecting polling sites, including drop-off boxes for
mail-in ballots?

(See Shannon Bushey’s message below identifying the relevant sections of the Elections Code addressing
prohibited activities near polling sites.

See also the “Electioneering” press release issued by the Office of the Secretary of State on 10/8/2014 that
addresses restrictions on petition circulation near polling places:
http://elections.cdn.sos.ca.gov/ccrov/pdf/2014/october/14261jl.pdf)

Ms. Bushey and Sergeant Benitez, if I have misstated any actions or events involving either of you, please
clarify or correct my comments in your reply, if any.

+++++

As the SCC ROV is well aware, I stand in firm opposition to the placement of ballot boxes in popular public
venues, including inside libraries and near library entrances, because of the unavoidable and necessary
suppression of Free Speech that accompanies those ballot boxes.

The suppression of Freedom of Speech for 29 days/10 days/4 days in advance of an election in our popular
public venues is too burdensome for communities to bear in what is now, unfortunately, an era of tenuous
support for Democracy.

All mail-in ballot materials distributed to Santa Clara County residents include an addressed and postage-paid
return envelope. Every USPS mailbox is a “safe, secure, accessible” place where voters can return their ballots.
It is unacceptable to silence Free Speech in our communities’ well-trafficked public venues by burdening them
with ballot boxes 29 days in advance of an election.

Thank you for your consideration of my questions and for recognition of my on-going request to remove polling
sites from well-trafficked public venues, including inside libraries and near library entrances.

Sincerely,
                                                          2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/18/2018 4:37 PM

Liana Crabtree
Cupertino resident



Begin forwarded message:

       From: Shannon Bushey
       Date: May 16, 2018 at 11:47:52 AM PDT
       To: Liana Crabtree
       Cc: Others
       Subject: FW: Time-sensitive: question about petition signature gathering within 100 feet of
       drop-off ballot boxes

       Hello Ms. Crabtree,

       Thank you for your email regarding an issue at the City. I cannot answer your legal
       questions about this situation at the City and if it is legal to circulate petitions in city
       buildings. Please contact the City regarding your legal questions about this issue. I have
       copied Elections Code sections that may be of assistance to you.

             319.5.
             “Electioneering” means the visible display or audible dissemination of
             information that advocates for or against any candidate or measure on the
             ballot within 100 feet of a polling place, a vote center, an elections official’s
             office, or a satellite location under Section 3018. Prohibited electioneering
             information includes, but is not limited to, any of the following:
             (a) A display of a candidate’s name, likeness, or logo.
             (b) A display of a ballot measure’s number, title, subject, or logo.
             (c) Buttons, hats, pencils, pens, shirts, signs, or stickers containing
             electioneering information.
             (d) Dissemination of audible electioneering information.
             (e) At vote by mail ballot drop boxes, loitering near or disseminating visible
             or audible electioneering information


             18370.
             No person, on election day, or at any time that a voter may be casting a
             ballot, shall, within 100 feet of a polling place, a satellite location under
             Section 3018, or an elections official’s office:
             (a) Circulate an initiative, referendum, recall, or nomination petition or any
             other petition.
             (b) Solicit a vote or speak to a voter on the subject of marking his or her
             ballot.
             (c) Place a sign relating to voters’ qualifications or speak to a voter on the
             subject of his or her qualifications except as provided in Section 14240.

                                                        3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/18/2018 4:37 PM
             (d) Do any electioneering as defined by Section 319.5.
             As used in this section, “100 feet of a polling place, a satellite location
             under Section 3018, or an elections official’s office” means a distance 100
             feet from the room or rooms in which voters are signing the roster and
             casting ballots.
             Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
             misdemeanor.

             18371.
             (a) No candidate or representative of a candidate, and no proponent,
             opponent, or representative of a proponent or opponent, of an initiative,
             referendum, or recall measure, or of a charter amendment, shall solicit the
             vote of a vote by mail voter, or do any electioneering, while in the
             residence or in the immediate presence of the voter, and during the time he
             or she knows the vote by mail voter is voting.
             (b) Any person who knowingly violates this section is guilty of a
             misdemeanor.
             (c) This section shall not be construed to conflict with any provision of the
             federal Voting Rights Act of 1965, as amended, nor to preclude
             electioneering by mail or telephone or in public places, except as prohibited
             by Section 18370, or by any other provision of law.




       Shannon Bushey, CERA
       Registrar of Voters
       County of Santa Clara
       1555 Berger Drive, Bldg. 2
       San Jose, CA 95112
       (408) 282‐3005
       shannon.bushey@rov.sccgov.org

       Help your community by serving as a poll worker!

       NOTICE: This email message and/or its attachments may contain information that is confidential or
       restricted. It is intended only for the individuals named as recipients in the message. If you are NOT an
       authorized recipient, you are prohibited from using, delivering, distributing, printing, copying, or
       disclosing the message or content to others and must delete the message from your computer. If you
       have received this message in error, please notify the sender by return email.


           Download the free SCCVOTE mobile app for iPhone/iPad & Android: bit.ly/sccvote
                                            Follow us on        @sccvote
                                             Like us on        @sccvote



                                                           4
                                                                           Please Contact the Clerk’s Office
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/18/2018 4:27 PM                    to View Additional Pages,
                                                                           Attachments, or Images Related
                                                                                   to this Document
Carnahan, David

From:                         League of Women Voters of Palo Alto
                              <publicity=lwvpaloalto.org@mail96.atl161.mcsv.net> on behalf of League of Women
                              Voters of Palo Alto <publicity@lwvpaloalto.org>
Sent:                         Wednesday, May 16, 2018 4:47 PM
To:                           Council, City
Subject:                      June/July 2018 Palo Alto VOTER




                                         View this email in your browser




           June/July 2018 Issue of The VOTER

           Your digital copy of the League of Women Voters of Palo Alto's VOTER is
           attached below. Just click on the image to view in PDF format. You can also
           save it to your desktop and read at your leisure!


           Thank you,


           Sue Hermsen,
           VOTER Editor
           League of Women Voters of Palo Alto




                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/18/2018 4:27 PM


           Inside this issue you will find
           upcoming events, voter
           information about the
           upcoming June 5th primary
           election, LWVC's ballot
           recommendations and more:

                  Outgoing & Incoming
                   President’s Letter
                  Board Meeting Highlights
                  Advocacy Report
                  Membership News
                  2017-18 Summary
                  LWVUS Award
                  New Voices for Youth
                  Voter Registration
                  Announcements
                  Calendar




                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/18/2018 4:27 PM




                                            Facebook    Twitter    Website




                        Copyright © 2018 League of Women Voters Palo Alto, All rights reserved.
                                              From Voter Recipient List

                                              Our mailing address is:
                                          League of Women Voters Palo Alto
                                            3921 E Bayshore Rd Ste 209
                                              Palo Alto, CA 94303-4303

                                             Add us to your address book


                                   Want to change how you receive these emails?
                             You can update your preferences or unsubscribe from this list.




                                                           3
    Vol. XXXIII No. X
                        The Palo Alto VOTER
                                    The League of Women Voters of Palo Alto
   June/July, 2018                           www.lwvpaloalto.org



        June 5
    Primary Election

                                                         The facts about our criminal justice system are well
                                                         known and overwhelming. Often, its many intricacies and
                                                         many branches across our political and economic system
                                                         can make it seem like solutions that get to the root of the
                                                         problem are impossible. However, if we look outside of
League of Women Voters of                                the walls of the judicial system, the prisons, the obvious
                                                         places, we find that there is incredible potential to not only
California Recommends:                                   stem the harm of mass incarceration but build something
          YES ON PROP 68 - CALIFORNIANS                  entirely new. Who has the power to build a new justice
          FOR CLEAN WATER AND SAFE                       system? The millions of people impacted by mass
          PARKS - Read More Here                         incarceration.

                                                         Join Ashoka and this incredible group of social
          YES ON PROP 69 - MOTOR VEHICLE                 entrepreneurs to learn about the biggest, most effective
          FEES AND TAXES - Read More Here                solutions to our national crisis and what the intersections
                                                         across their work can teach us about empathy,
          VOTE NO ON PROP 70 -                           democracy, and power. Co-Sponsored by the League of
          GREENHOUSE GAS REDUCTION                       Women Voters of Palo Alto.
          RESERVE FUND - Read More Here
                                                         Monday, June 4, 2018
          YES ON PROP 71 - EFFECTIVE DATE                6:30-7:00 pm | Registration
          OF INITIATIVES -                               7-8:30 pm | Panel and Q&A
          Read More Here
                                                         Palo Alto Art Center
          VOTE YES ON PROP 72 - PROPERTY
                                                         1313 Newell Road, Palo Alto, CA 94303
          TAXATION: NEW CONSTRUCTION:
                                                         Contact: aplotkin@ashoka.org
          RAIN WATER CAPTURE SYSTEM-
          Read More Here
                                                         For more information and to RSVP, click here:
      See page 7 for more on these measures              https://www.tfaforms.com/4670078



Inside this issue:                      Advocacy Report            p. 4             New Voices for Youth p.8
Outgoing President’s Letter p. 2        Membership News            p. 4             Voter Registration    p. 8
Incoming President’s Letter p. 3        2017-18 Summary         pp. 5-7             Announcements      pp. 8-9
Board Meeting Highlights    p. 3        LWVUS Award                p. 7             Calendar             p. 10

The League is a broadly based organization that encourages informed and involved participation in government
             through voter service and influences public policy through education and advocacy.
                    The League does not support or oppose political candidates or parties.
Housing & Transportation Team This group has been closely following the actions of the Palo Alto City Council
and Planning and Transportation Commission (P&TC) regarding their efforts to address the housing crisis. Over this
past year, we drafted several advocacy letters for board approval on accessory dwelling units, housing impact fees, the
City Council's Housing Work Plan (a detailed plan to make changes to the zoning codes to allow for more housing)
and the Affordable Housing Combining District. Each of these letters was approved by the board. We read these at the
public hearings on these matters at Council and the P&TC. We have had various experts and decision makers at our
committee meetings to inform us about current housing and transportation issues.
                                                                                                        Bonnie Packer

Collaborations and Community Outreach Team During the past year the Collaborations and
Community Outreach Team worked on the following: 1. Identified and secured partners to co-sponsor a
number of LWVPA events. 2. For the March event featuring UC Berkeley Law School Dean
Chemerinsky speaking on "Defining the Limits of Free Speech" (organized by our programming director,
Maureen O'Kicki), we reached out to local faith-based and multi-faith organizations and secured a
broader cross-section of community co-sponsors. We were very pleased to have this event endorsed by
the City of Palo Alto Human Relations Commission. 3. The team met to discuss-- i) guidelines for vetting
partner organizations; ii) how to refine the definition of levels of LWVPA co-sponsorship of other organizations' events;
and iii) how to be more inclusive of various religious, racial and ethnic communities as potential co-sponsors of our
events.
                                                                               Karen Kalinsky & Diane Rolfe, Co-Chairs

Board Development Team in its initial year has worked with Membership and Nominating; completed a survey of
board recruitment, training, and mentoring practices and materials offered by neighboring Leagues and LWVUS;
surveyed current board members and team chairs for team missions and personal reflections on board service;
supported proposal for new board organizational structure built around mission-aligned Core Teams (Action/
Advocacy, Programming, Voter Service), Issue Teams (focus on local priorities and areas of emphasis), and Board
Support Teams (Communications, Membership, Nominations, etc.) to streamline and focus activities to increase
membership engagement; started work on a board-information folder to be posted on the Drive; and encouraged
board members to think "succession" - to work with team members who could become leaders.
                                                                                                   Ellen Smith, Chair
The LWVPA Education Team has had an exciting year supporting and advocating for
improved education and increased funding of education in California. We launched our year
with two very successful events: In October we showed the film: “The Raising of
America” (Kim Kruckel of the Child Care Law Center of San Francisco served as our
facilitator.) In December, we secured Dr. Deborah Stipek of Stanford as the keynote speaker
for our Annual LWVPA Luncheon. Dr. Stipek presented a well-received talk, “Early Childhood Education: Why is it
Essential to our Collective Future?” to a full house.
Now we have joined forces with our Advocacy Committee in gathering signatures to place the California Schools
and Communities Funding Act on the state November Ballot in 2020. As of this writing we have gathered over
1,200 signatures before the deadline of June 30, 2018. Our work continues. Please contact us if you would like to join
our many volunteers for this last push to qualify our initiative for the 2020 CA Ballot.
                                                                               Diane Rolfe and Sigrid Pinsky, Co-Chairs

New Voices for Youth, a unique voter education program, gives students a voice through media production to
                 encourage civic participation. LWV of South San Mateo County is a co-sponsor of New Voices with
                 LWV Palo Alto. This year’s program was held in the East Palo Alto Boys & Girls Club and the
                 North Fair Oaks Siena Youth Center. Youth work with experienced directors who provide expertise
                 in media arts and youth organizing and explore issues to encourage civic engagement. Most recently,
                 NV4Y students have focused on housing issues that directly affect their families. Videos may be
                 accessed on the New Voices web site: http://www.newvoicesforyouth.org. A steering committee,
consisting of LWV volunteers from LWVPA and LWVSSMC, oversees the operations of New Voices for Youth.
LWVPA provides an annual generous contribution of $1,000 to New Voices. Currently, representatives from LWVPA
on the Steering Committee are Veronica Tincher and Betty Gerard. We welcome LWVPA members to join the
Steering Committee or assist in other ways.
                                               Veronica Tincher, Co-Chair, New Voices for Youth Steering Committee

LWVPA                                                      !6                                            June-July, 2018
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/18/2018 4:38 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Roberta Ahlquist <roberta.ahlquist@sjsu.edu>
Sent:                           Friday, May 18, 2018 11:07 AM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        Let's support the 'Commons'




Dear Council Members, City Manager, and Staff:

I look forward to seeing the city government reflect and then act. Get serious about constructing more low-
income housing for the low income
workers who serve this city and who now have to travel far too many miles, creating more eco-devastation.


As a child in Montana, I was taught that our city government served as the ‘commons’, a place where elected
and appointed public officials were ‘servants’ of the residents of the city. Whatever happened to this idea? It
wasn’t a place for the city government to make a profit, but to grow a safer, more sustainable and stronger
community.

Sincerely,

Roberta Ahlquist




                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:38 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Paul Ramsbottom <pramsbottom@me.com>
Sent:                           Saturday, May 19, 2018 1:06 PM
To:                             Gerhardt, Jodie; Mei, Lee; Lait, Jonathan; Netto, Margaret; Schmid, Greg; Pirnejad, Peter
Cc:                             Council, City
Subject:                        Market research questionnaire



Dear friends at City Hall,

I recently received an email questionnaire. The questions were seemingly quite generic but it did raise a few
concerns.

I don’t want to sound paranoid but I have spent the last 30 years working directly in market research (or using
the output of that discipline) and have seen how it can be used and misused.

For example:




This seems an obvious reference to the Caltrain crossing debate. Everyone wants safer intersections, it’s almost
idiotic to ask that but that doesn’t mean I agree with any of the proposals you have promulgated for the Caltrain
crossings (I do not).

And when you combine that with simple questions like:




                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:38 AM




A simple cross-tab potentially tells you that you have high resident approval scores and, if used incorrectly and
without context, that those same people want your proposed Caltrain improvements, which is not necessarily
the case.

I believe you are on the ‘Wrong Track’ when it comes to Caltrain, specially if you use the results of this survey
to support your aims.

Sincerely,

Paul Ramsbottom
3796 Redwood Circle
Palo Alto
CA 94306




                                                        2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/22/2018 2:39 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Carnahan, David
Sent:                             Tuesday, May 22, 2018 1:08 PM
To:                               Council, City
Subject:                          Mayor Libby Schaaf Act of 2018


Good afternoon Council Members,

A member of the public called today voicing support for the “Mayor Libby Schaaf Act of 2018,” introduced by
Congressman Steven King from Iowa.



              David Carnahan, Deputy City Clerk, MPA
              250 Hamilton Avenue | Palo Alto, CA 94301
              O: 650‐329‐2267 | E: david.carnahan@cityofpaloalto.org




                                                             1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/18/2018 4:37 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                                                                                           Betty Howell <anderwell2@gmail.com>
Sent:                                                                                           Wednesday, May 16, 2018 8:45 PM
To:                                                                                             Council, City
Subject:                                                                                        More Employee Parking Permits



Dear City Council,

As a Channing House resident (and voter), we need employees here for our care and services, and employees in
the nearby medical & dental offices and the businesses that serve us.

Since RPP seems to be working, why make more draconian cuts? Thank you for spending time to understand
the complete story.

Betty Howell
850 Webster #937
Palo Alto, CA 94301

    Right-click here to download pictures. To help p ro tect y our




                                                                         Virus-free. www.avast.com
    priv acy , Outlo ok prev ented au tomatic download of this picture
    from the Internet.




                                                                                                                      1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/18/2018 4:26 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           KENT MATHER <kentmather@mac.com>
Sent:                           Wednesday, May 16, 2018 3:17 PM
To:                             Council, City
Cc:                             Lydia Kou
Subject:                        More Employee Parking Permits



To: Palo Alto City Council

From: R. Kent Mather, FAIA-E
        850 Webster Street, Apt. 535
        Palo Alto, CA 94301

As a long time Palo Alto resident, on and off for over 60 years and permanently from 1994 until now, I am
writing you to: SUPPORT HAVING MORE EMPLOYEE PARKING PERMITS.

In July, 2016 my wife and I moved from our Emerson Street home of 20 years to Channing House(CH). Why
did we move to CH? Like many of our fellow residents we moved here mainly because it is located in
Downtown Palo Alto! And it has been located here since 1961. An ideal location since we wanted to be able to
walk to all those downtown and nearby dining, shopping, business, educational, athletic and entertainment
facilities that we had enjoyed since 1994. When the time comes we can give up our car and still enjoy living in
Palo Alto. However, that will require continuation of the help that CH and its wonderful staff provide for it’s
residents, the majority of whom live in the “independent living” apartments. Typically our employees cannot
afford to live in Palo Alto and they need, and take advantage of, the full range of transportation options from
public to private, including parking permits.

As a former Palo Alto home owner I applaud your efforts to work to improve on-street parking congestion in
the neighborhoods with the RPP. And it appears to be working in most areas. To continue with annual across
the board permit reductions will hurt CH and the nearby businesses we frequent and the RPP should not proceed
in the draconian way originally planned. Please work with your staff to come up with more creative solutions to
any remaining RPP issues including parking permits.

Thank you,

Kent Mather




                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/22/2018 2:31 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Ben Pacho <ben@bikesiliconvalley.org>
Sent:                            Monday, May 21, 2018 5:05 PM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         Palo Alto City Council, May 21 Meeting: Action Item 7, the Charleston-Arastradero
                                 Project



Dear Mayor Kniss and Members of the Palo Alto City Council:

I am writing to urge Council’s approval of the first and second phases of the Charleston-Arastradero Corridor
Project construction contract. If implemented, this Project would support the growing number of students who
bike to the 11 surrounding public and private K-12 schools in the area, as well as close existing infrastructure
gaps for bike commuters traveling from cities south of Palo Alto to the citywide bike network.

Approved in 2003, the Charleston-Arastradero project is an important linchpin in the city’s 2012 Bicycle
Pedestrian Transportation Plan and if approved, would deliver key safety improvements for all roadway users.

Since the final design was approved in 2012, current road conditions have only necessitated the pressing need
for the project’s safety improvements. The inclusion of a multi-use path for students, new landscaped median
islands to induce safer motor speeds, and consistent bike facilities at the El Camino Real intersection -- will
help transform this residential arterial into a safe corridor for people of all ages and abilities who bike or walk.

Silicon Valley Bicycle Coalition thanks City Council for doing its due diligence in conducting extensive
community meetings, hearings, and public review over the last fifteen years to produce a final design that
prioritizes movement of all transportation modes. At a time of heightened civic engagement, we encourage
Council to approve the contract and move the City’s sustainable vision of the built and natural environments
forward. Thank you for your consideration.



Sincerely,
Ben Pacho

Santa Clara County Advocate
Silicon Valley Bicycle Coalition
96 N. Third Street, Suite 375
PO Box 1927
San Jose, CA 95109
Office: 408-464-5195
http://bikesiliconvalley.org




                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:38 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Ann Pianetta <annpianetta@me.com>
Sent:                             Saturday, May 19, 2018 1:35 PM
To:                               Council, City
Subject:                          Pollster


Dear City Council:
You really need to not pay California Opinion Research any money. Between yesterday and today, this company has
called my son twice using my phone number. I asked them to take his name off their contact list. The polling statistics
you receive from them will be inaccurate. Again, a big waste of money.

Ann Pianetta
3815 La Donna Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94306
650‐384‐5744




                                                            1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/22/2018 2:34 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                                     Karen Harwell <karenharwell@gmail.com>
Sent:                                     Tuesday, May 22, 2018 6:51 AM
To:                                       Suzanne Keehn
Cc:                                       Architectural Review Board; Clerk, City; Council, City
Subject:                                  Re: Cell Towers



Thank you for the information.

On Mon, May 21, 2018 at 1:59 PM Suzanne Keehn <dskeehn@pacbell.net> wrote:
 Greetings Palo Alto City Council,

 I urge you to put the health of our community before Verizon's cell towers. There are
 many
 health issues, with which I hope you all have educated yourselves. I will send some
 links,
 one of which is Palo Alto and the decline of property values near these towers.

 Also if we, the city, is serious about putting the electric wires underground, as we did
 on
 Orme St. years ago, will be made impossible when Verizon adds all the other equipment
 to the poles.

 Property Values Declining Near Cell Towers



      Property Values Declining Near Cell
      Towers
      When it comes to cell phone towers, there is increasingly the perception
      that a family does not want to live nex...




 Please overturn the decision to allow Verizon to install hundreds of pounds of ugly, noisy and
 potentially hazardous equipment on poles within a few yards of our homes.


    1. Verizon’s on-the-pole installations do not comply with Palo Alto’s aesthetics, noise and other
        ordinances;
    2. Verizon’s claims that it cannot underground its equipment are not credible; and
    3. Approval should be granted to Verizon to install its cell towers only on the conditions that: a)
        the company locate all of its equipment, except the antenna, underground, in flush-to-the-
        ground vaults with no protuberances; and b) none of its equipment may exceed the noise
        levels permitted by Palo Alto’s ordinances.
                                                                           1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/22/2018 2:34 PM
 Verizon's complaint about it being too expensive to put the equipment underground is
bogus for
a multi million dollar company.

"First Do No Harm"

Thank You,
Suzanne Keehn
4076 Orme St. 94306




                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 3:53 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Sent:                           Monday, May 21, 2018 2:59 PM
To:                             Loran Harding; Dan Richard; dennisbalakian; David Balakian; Doug Vagim; Daniel Zack;
                                Mayor; esmeralda.soria@fresno.gov; paul.caprioglio; Mark Standriff; Mark Kreutzer;
                                midge@thebarretts.com; mthibodeaux@electriclaboratories.com; beachrides; Leodies
                                Buchanan; blackstone@blastfitness.com; terry; Cathy Lewis; Council, City;
                                info@superide1.com; Joel Stiner; popoff; boardmembers; huidentalsanmateo; Steve
                                Wayte; steve.hogg
Subject:                        Re: Fresno spending $250K / year on land options for HMF until HSR picks a winner




On Mon, May 21, 2018 at 2:17 PM, Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org> wrote:


 On Mon, May 21, 2018 at 1:49 PM, Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org> wrote:


  On Mon, May 21, 2018 at 1:44 PM, Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org> wrote:


   On Mon, May 21, 2018 at 1:27 PM, Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org> wrote:

           Monday, May 21, 2018

           Mr. Dan Richard
           Chairman of the Board
           California High Speed Rail Authority

           Dan- Fresno keeps handing out $250,000 per year to land owners as options to buy land for the
    HMF. If CHSRA does not make a decision over the subsequent year as to the location of the HMF, that
    money is kept by the landowners and is gone to the City forever. The Fresno CC has now voted to do this
    twice, so we could see $500,000 go up in smoke. That seems bad in a City that needs just everything,
    especially serious attention to its beat-up streets.

           I know that you don't want to see Fresno waste its taxpayers money. The schools are overcrowded,
    we don't have enough police, the roads have fallen apart since 2010 when the City risked BK and quit
    maintaining them, HWY 99 through Fresno would cause political rebellion if it existed in most third world
    countries. Can't CHSRA look out a year at a time and see if a decision on locating the HMF is likely to be
    made in that time-frame? It is as if City officials are dealing with a black-box. Actually, they are dealing
    with smart people who have a good idea as to when the decision on the HMF will be made. Everyone here
    would appreciate it if CHSRA could communicate the nearness of a decision to local public officials so that
    they could place options on land when it makes sense to do so.

            This is a serious drain on the City coffers, and, no doubt, other cities are doing the same thing.


                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 3:53 PM
             Fresno is located almost exactly in the middle of the proposed HSR route between San Francisco
   and Los Angeles. It has the land for the HMF and a capable workforce to man it. It would make great sense
   to locate the HMF in Fresno. I hope you can at least give Fresno officials a hint as to when a decision will
   be made. You are probably waiting until more funding is secured for the entire project before you choose a
   site for the HMF. You could tell those who can produce that funding that a City like Fresno is repeatedly
   burning through scarce dollars obtaining options on land to accommodate the HMF.

             There is a red-neck element in Fresno who knows, knows that HSR would be bad. If the rich
   Republican developers who control the public officials here oppose HSR, then the ignorant red-necks adopt
   that line. The local TV stations have their news readers appeal to these people and slant every story about
   HSR as an invasion of their perfect community by outsiders. No matter how poor and ignorant people are,
   you can make money exploiting them. HSR through the Central Valley would start to break that system up.

            You just can't believe Fresno. I find adults here who have never heard the term "CPA", have never
   heard of Silicon Valley, Hewlett-Packard Co., the Silk Road, the Battan Death March, of Bernie Madoff, of
   Edward VIII and Mrs. Simpson. The schools here must be horrible, with some exceptions. They run AP
   classes for the kids whose parents know that education matters. The Clovis schools are famous for
   excellence. HSR in the Central Valley would mean salvation for most of the downtrodden population here,
   and I have expressed that sentiment to you and others many times.

             We here who see all of that are deeply grateful for your untiring efforts to bring HSR to
  California. Most people would have resigned long ago. You are definitely not a quitter. The fact that the
  United States does not have one millimeter of HSR is a scandal, one of many perpetrated on the American
  people by their government. We supply a free military defense for all of Europe, Japan, S. Korea and
  Taiwan. They then spend their military money on high speed rail, affordable universities, and wonderful
  national health care systems. Whenever a war needs to be fought, they just call the White House. We rush
  thousands of young Americans over to be killed fighting the war, and the beneficiary countries then get rich
  treating our wounded. I'll bet they can't believe their luck. This is the very definition of "rotten government"
  and I believe that the American people are up to changing it and bringing their tormenters to justice.

            In the mean time, can you please, if possible, develop a system to let local governments know
  better when a decision on the HMF might be made? They are wasting precious money because of uncertainty
  about that.

           Thank you.

           Mr. L. William Harding
           Fresno, Ca.




           http://www.cvobserver.com/fresno/will-fresno-receive-hsr-maintenance-yard-city-council-spends-
   another-250k/?utm_source=Morning+Roundup&utm_campaign=aa80f9ec43-
   EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2018_05_21&utm_medium=email&utm_term=0_165ffe36b2-aa80f9ec43-
   78450701&mc_cid=aa80f9ec43&mc_eid=7afa3a94f3




                                                        2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 3:53 PM




                                                     3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:39 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Tom DuBois <tomforcouncil@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Saturday, May 19, 2018 9:06 PM
To:                             Yu Wen Chen
Cc:                             Council, City
Subject:                        Re: Palo Alto Water Recycling Expansion



Awesome, thanks!

I’ve been very active on water recycling and we have some exciting projects under way to create even higher
quality treated water.


On Wed, May 9, 2018 at 1:24 AM Yu Wen Chen <yuwenchen1996@gmail.com> wrote:
 Hi, I am advocating for the Palo Alto Water Recycling Expansion that you guys are doing. I did some research
 on your expansion plans and I feel like most of them are really well thought out and I really like what you guys
 are doing.




                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/23/2018 10:47 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Ann Protter <ann.protter@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Wednesday, May 23, 2018 7:54 AM
To:                              Council, City
Cc:                              Clerk, City
Subject:                         Re: Verizon



Dear Palo Alto City Council,

I was out of town and missed Monday's meeting regarding the Verizon cell towers. But I understand that it was
approved.

If I have this right, there was a substantially large group of citizens who actively opposed this measure -- and 20
Verizon lobbyists who wanted it to pass.

And it passed??? Are you kidding me?

This is a disgraceful shame. What an opportunity you had to stand up for what our united community wants, as
clearly we as individuals cannot do. But instead big money won.

As someone proposed, those of you who voted for this ought to offer to have the Verizon towers placed in front
of your homes.

Signed,
A very unhappy Palo Alto resident.




On Mon, May 7, 2018 at 5:51 PM, Ann Protter <ann.protter@gmail.com> wrote:

 I'm a Verizon customer, but I don't want more utility poles above ground in my neighborhood.

 Please ensure their equipment goes Underground:

       1.   Verizon’s claims that it cannot underground its equipment are not credible. For one thing,
            Verizon has vaulted its equipment in other cities. And for another, Palo Alto has
            successfully undergrounded electrical utilities under exactly the same conditions Verizon
            says represent an insurmountable hurdle to undergrounding its equipment.
       2.   Approval should be granted to Verizon to install its cell towers only on the conditions that: a)
            the company locate all of its equipment, except the antenna, underground, in flush-to-the-
            ground vaults with no protuberances; and b) none of its equipment may exceed the noise
            levels permitted by Palo Alto’s ordinances. Again, this is eminently possible. It will simply
            cost Verizon a little more money than littering our poles with the equipment.
                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/23/2018 10:47 AM



Thank you,
Ann




                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/23/2018 10:46 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                               jjh <jjh2000@gmail.com> on behalf of Jim Holmlund <jjhstuff@gmail.com>
Sent:                               Tuesday, May 22, 2018 5:51 PM
To:                                 Representative Anna G. Eshoo; senator@feinstein.senate.gov;
                                    senator@boxer.senate.gov
Cc:                                 Council, City
Subject:                            Re: Yet another unpleasant Sunday night near Channing and Newell in Palo Alto




Ok, this time it was Monday night. See below for about 22 flights in about 60 mins ‐ a flight every 3 minutes.
I can hear a flight about 30 secs before it gets overhead, and then another 30 secs after it leaves, ie, noise 1/3 of the
time.
As summer gets here and the windows are open, this is really bad.

It has been a long time since the Select Committee finished their work, and the only thing I have noticed is that the noise
has gotten even worse than it was! The FAA recently moved the SERFR route so it is now about 1/2 the distance to us
than was the old SERFR. FAA said they did it for safety reasons. Does that mean that the SERFR2 route, in use for
3 years ,was unsafe all that time??

Our only hope is that maybe the FAA will fulfill their agreement to move the route back to where BSUR was, but that will
just move some of the traffic a bit farther away from us, so it might not be as loud as now. But the vectored traffic from
BDEGA West, Oceanic, and SERFR usually go near enough to us to be very noisy, and I have not heard of any effort to fix
that.

I doubt that our local government can do anything ‐ seems like only you federal officials have any power over the FAA.
So, please do something! And soon, not 5 years from now or whenever.
The first thought comes into mind is to tell the FAA to send BDEGA West, Oceanic, and vectored SERFR flights
somewhere else. This could be a very simple way to disperse flights. The second thought is to change the FAA's madate
from Safety, and then Efficiency, to Safety, Environment and lastly Efficiency.


Below is my record for Monday night. It doesn't include several later flights, including the annoying 747 cargo plane
from LA that flies over around midnight on most days. Hmm, didn't the FAA agree to do something about nighttime
flights? When will they do it?

Please let me know if there are any plans to fix this.
Thank you,

Jim Holmlund

Mon, May 21, 10:49 PM Flight: WN1201 [SNA‐SFO] (B737; speed: 220 knots, altitude: 4983.9996376992 ft, distance: 3
KM) Mon, May 21, 10:42 PM Flight: AS1050 [HNL‐SFO] (A320; speed: 219 knots, altitude: 4500.0610923264 ft,
distance: 2 KM) Mon, May 21, 10:41 PM Mon, May 21, 10:39 PM Flight: AC 568 [YVR‐SFO] (A320; speed: 277 knots,
altitude: 4100.73542976 ft, distance: 3 KM) Mon, May 21, 10:37 PM Flight: WN1585 [BUR‐SFO] (B737; speed: 226
knots, altitude: 4926.759135168 ft, distance: 2 KM) Mon, May 21, 10:34 PM Flight: UA1288 [OGG‐SFO] (B738; speed:
225 knots, altitude: 4000 ft, distance: 2 KM) Mon, May 21, 10:32 PM Flight: AS1812 [PDX‐SFO] (A320; speed: 229
knots, altitude: 3682.2363405589335 ft, distance: 1 KM) Mon, May 21, 10:28 PM Flight: UA1740 [BUR‐SFO] (B738;
speed: 256 knots, altitude: 4951.334295803734 ft, distance: 2 KM) Mon, May 21, 10:20 PM Flight: AS1939 [LAX‐SFO]

                                                              1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/23/2018 10:46 AM
(A320; speed: 224 knots, altitude: 3971.3120288629334 ft, distance: 1 KM) Mon, May 21, 10:16 PM Flight: WN5370
[PHX‐SFO] (B738; speed: 225 knots, altitude: 4057.0598037024 ft, distance: 2 KM) Mon, May 21, 10:10 PM Flight:
AS1937 [LAX‐SFO] (A320; speed: 223 knots, altitude: 5690.106318583466 ft, distance: 1 KM) Mon, May 21, 10:08
PM Flight: UA5727 [SBA‐SFO] (CRJ2; speed: 268 knots, altitude: 4558.466451204266 ft, distance: 3 KM) Mon, May 21,
10:06 PM Flight: DL2953 [LAX‐SFO] (B738; speed: 248 knots, altitude: 3987.0326147754668 ft, distance: 6 KM) Mon,
May 21, 09:55 PM Flight: HA 42 [OGG‐SFO] (A332; speed: 232 knots, altitude: 5901.4839072704 ft, distance: 3 KM)
Mon, May 21, 09:52 PM Flight: UA2400 [BOS‐SFO] (B772; speed: 194 knots, altitude: 5739.622510974933 ft, distance:
1 KM) Mon, May 21, 09:51 PM Flight: DL2949 [LAX‐SFO] (B738; speed: 227 knots, altitude: 4420.908379282133 ft,
distance: 3 KM) Mon, May 21, 09:50 PM Mon, May 21, 09:48 PM Flight: AS2806 [SNA‐SFO] (E75L; speed: 224 knots,
altitude: 5026.271765421867 ft, distance: 3 KM) Mon, May 21, 09:47 PM Mon, May 21, 09:46 PM Mon, May 21, 09:44
PM Flight: AA6014 [LAX‐SFO] (E75L; speed: 223 knots, altitude: 4416.0851577834665 ft, distance: 2 KM) Mon, May 21,
09:42 PM Flight: DL 408 [JFK‐SFO] (B763; speed: 224 knots, altitude: 4910.896195514667 ft, distance: 1 KM) Mon,
May 21, 09:40 PM Flight: WS1776 [YVR‐SFO] (B737; speed: 227 knots, altitude: 4341.339379095467 ft, distance: 2
KM) On 7/11/2016 11:45 AM, Jim Holmlund wrote:
>
> See the many SFO inbound flights listed below. Many times there is a
> plane every two minutes or so.
>
> It wasn't anything like this before the FAA implemented the NextGen
> related changes in March 2015.
>
> This is just plain wrong. If the traffic was like this when we bought
> our house, then so be it. But traffic wasn't like this. At all. This
> started in March 2015 when the FAA implemented NextGen related
> changes. We were not informed that such changes were coming, nor did
> we have any say in them.
>
> The 'FAA Initiative' that was intended to deal with this has little or
> no relief for us, according to many people who have evaluated it. And
> the local 'Select Committee' apparently has no power and can just
> comment on the FAA Initiative. It seems wrong that private citizens,
> and cities such as Palo Alto have to tell the FAA how to do their job!
>
> So, it seems unless someone with authority forces the FAA to fix this,
> nothing will happen. Please help!
>
>
> Sun, Jul 10, 10:46 PM Flight: AA2299 [MIA‐SFO] (B738; speed: 257
> knots, altitude: 5925 ft, distance: 1 KM) Sun, Jul 10, 10:40 PM
> Flight: UA 650 [HNL‐SFO] (B739; speed: 259 knots, altitude: 5975 ft,
> distance: 2 KM) Sun, Jul 10, 10:38 PM Flight: WN2574 [SAN‐SFO]
> (B733; speed: 250 knots, altitude: 5574 ft, distance: 5 KM) Sun, Jul
> 10, 10:29 PM Flight: VX 947 [LAX‐SFO] (A320; speed: 212 knots,
> altitude: 4125 ft, distance: 1 KM) Sun, Jul 10, 10:27 PM Flight:
> WN 570 [SNA‐SFO] (B737; speed: 295 knots, altitude: 5085 ft, distance:
> 3 KM) Sun, Jul 10, 10:24 PM Flight: AS 300 [SEA‐SFO] (B738; speed:
> 244 knots, altitude: 5929 ft, distance: 8 KM) Sun, Jul 10, 10:22 PM
> Flight: AA6012 [LAX‐SFO] (E170; speed: 238 knots, altitude: 4750 ft,
> distance: 3 KM) Sun, Jul 10, 10:20 PM Flight: AS 384 [PDX‐SFO]
> (B739; speed: 212 knots, altitude: 5100 ft, distance: 2 KM) Sun, Jul
> 10, 10:15 PM Flight: UA2246 [LGB‐SFO] (B739; speed: 207 knots,

                                                        2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/23/2018 10:46 AM
> altitude: 4775 ft, distance: 3 KM) Sun, Jul 10, 10:12 PM Flight:
> UA5107 [ONT‐SFO] (CRJ2; speed: 251 knots, altitude: 5686 ft, distance:
> 2 KM) Sun, Jul 10, 10:08 PM Flight: AM 662 [GDL‐SFO] (B737; speed:
> 258 knots, altitude: 5449 ft, distance: 4 KM) Sun, Jul 10, 10:02 PM
> Flight: AA 400 [PHX‐SFO] (A321; speed: 181 knots, altitude: 5575 ft,
> distance: 3 KM) Sun, Jul 10, 10:00 PM Flight: UA5727 [SBA‐SFO]
> (E170; speed: 249 knots, altitude: 4725 ft, distance: 1 KM) Sun, Jul
> 10, 09:56 PM Flight: HA 42 [OGG‐SFO] (A332; speed: 261 knots,
> altitude: 6300 ft, distance: 3 KM) Sun, Jul 10, 09:54 PM Flight:
> UA5059 [ONT‐SFO] (CRJ2; speed: 243 knots, altitude: 4837 ft, distance:
> 1 KM) Sun, Jul 10, 09:45 PM Flight: VX 347 [FLL‐SFO] (A320; speed:
> 236 knots, altitude: 3900 ft, distance: 3 KM) Sun, Jul 10, 09:37 PM
> Flight: UA 731 [LAX‐SFO] (A320; speed: 250 knots, altitude: 5232 ft,
> distance: 5 KM) Sun, Jul 10, 09:34 PM Flight: CX 872 [HKG‐SFO]
> (B77W; speed: 216 knots, altitude: 4225 ft, distance: 3 KM) Sun, Jul
> 10, 09:28 PM Flight: UA5083 [SBP‐SFO] (CRJ2; speed: 228 knots,
> altitude: 5744 ft, distance: 6 KM) Sun, Jul 10, 09:27 PM Flight:
> UA5631 [BOI‐SFO] (E170; speed: 194 knots, altitude: 3725 ft, distance:
> 7 KM) Sun, Jul 10, 09:22 PM Flight: UA5873 [SNA‐SFO] (E170; speed:
> 234 knots, altitude: 4550 ft, distance: 2 KM) Sun, Jul 10, 09:21 PM
> << could not decide >> Sun, Jul 10, 09:18 PM Flight: UA 965
> [PDX‐SFO] (B738; speed: 250 knots, altitude: 6300 ft, distance: 5 KM)
> Sun, Jul 10, 09:16 PM Flight: UA1811 [YVR‐SFO] (A320; speed: 249
> knots, altitude: 5233 ft, distance: 4 KM) Sun, Jul 10, 09:12 PM
> Flight: VX 759 [SEA‐SFO] (A319; speed: 197 knots, altitude: 4725 ft,
> distance: 3 KM) Sun, Jul 10, 09:10 PM Flight: UA1806 [IAH‐SFO]
> (A320; speed: 256 knots, altitude: 5000 ft, distance: 4 KM) Sun, Jul
> 10, 09:09 PM Flight: DL2778 [LAX‐SFO] (B712; speed: 250 knots,
> altitude: 4602 ft, distance: 2 KM)




                                                           3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/18/2018 4:42 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Linda Bickham <linda.bickham@gmail.com>
Sent:                             Friday, May 18, 2018 1:34 PM
To:                               Council, City
Subject:                          Re: Your e-mail to City Council was received


I have not had a reply to my email or several weeks ago requesting info about what studies and data support the
decision to do the traffic calming circles and related work. Could someone please respond?

Linda Bickham

Sent from my iPhone

On May 1, 2018, at 4:44 PM, Council, City <city.council@cityofpaloalto.org> wrote:

       Thank you for your comments to the City Council. Your e‐mail will be forwarded to all nine Council
       Members and a printout of your correspondence will also be included in the next available Council
       packet.

       If your comments are about an item that is already scheduled for a City Council agenda, you can call
       329‐2571 to confirm that the item is still on the agenda for the next meeting.

       If your letter mentions a specific complaint or a request for service, we'll either reply with an
       explanation or else send it on to the appropriate department for clarification.

       We appreciate hearing from you.




                                                             1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/22/2018 2:35 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Ali Nasser <ali.nasser777@gmail.com>
Sent:                         Tuesday, May 22, 2018 10:44 AM
To:                           Council, City
Subject:                      Ross Road



I'm writing because my son and I were almost hit on multiple occasions while riding up Ross Road,
we don't understand how the changes help riders.
There is not enough space for bikes and cars to pass through the narrow parts of the road, thus
making it dangerous for the kids that ride on this street.
Please stop all changes to roads to "help" cyclists, we now only have one road to use up to Ohlone
and see more signs for work coming in the future, this is scary for us.
Can you help us understand how you're going to make sure this doesn't happen again?
How are you going to fix this?
Who will pay for all this?
Thanks
Ali
711 Maplewood Ave
Palo Alto CA 94303




                                                     1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/18/2018 4:38 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Albert Moon <almoon111213@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Thursday, May 17, 2018 6:54 PM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        RPP's for employees



My name is Albert Moon, I live at 850 Webster Street, Apartment 731. I am writing to oppose further reduction
in the number of employee parking permits in our area.
I live at Channing House, a Retirement community that provides life care for its residents. Many of the older
residents here need help with their daily activities and all of us receive meals and housekeeping services that we
are no longer able to provide for ourselves.
It takes a lot of helpers to provide these services to us. Some of us sold our homes many years ago when the
sale prices weren't as high as they are now and many of us are living a lot longer than we ever expected. As a
result, we can't afford to pay all our helpers enough to live in Palo Alto. Some of our helpers are nurses and
nurses aids, but we can;t pay them enough to live in Palo Alto and they can't use public transportation because
some of them have to hold two jobs to get by. They need a car to get to this second job because it would take
too long by the existing public transportation.

We are having trouble finding helpers to fill many of the jobs we have here due to competition from companies
with more resources and greater cash flow than we have. In addition, these companies are not located in
downtown Palo Alto and thus are more accessible to employees, making it even harder for us to hire, and retain
our staff.
The first level of parking restrictions has done a great deal to reduce parking congestion in the area. further
restrictions do not seem warranted as a means of providing adequate parking for residents.




                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/22/2018 2:38 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                              David Weiss <davidweiss25@gmail.com>
Sent:                              Tuesday, May 22, 2018 11:53 AM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           RV's on El Camino


I have placed calls to the city manager and to the police department regarding the homeless RV’s that have taken over
on El Camino in Palo Alto and everyone seems to pretend like I am the the first person to raise this issue. Last year this
matter was supposedly addressed, but it is worse than ever. I am all for using taxes to take care of those in need, but I
do no support anarchy. Allowing El Camino to become a homeless encampment is unfair to the rest of us. The police
department can only enforce the laws and apparently the city has failed to create rules to resolve this situation such as
simply placing signs prohibiting overnight parking. I would guess that if I were to buy 50 RV’s and rent them to Stanford
students the city would quickly put an end to it, but yet they are allowing the chaos of this homeless village to grow and
prosper. Please let me know what is being done to resolve this problem. Thank you.




                                                             1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/18/2018 4:39 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                                   John Roney <jdroney68@hotmail.com>
Sent:                                   Friday, May 18, 2018 12:32 PM
To:                                     Council, City
Subject:                                sb 54


Dear   Palo Alto   City   Council

We the law abiding people of California along with Attorney General of the United States Jeff Sessions would like for you to join the list
of growing cities that oppose the Un Constitutional pro illegal SB 54 by signing the amicus brief https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/justice-
department-files-preemption-lawsuit-against-state-california-stop-interference . These cities include Dana Point , Beaumont , also Orange
County cities that have passed resolutions backing the lawsuit include Aliso Viejo, Fountain Valley, Huntington Beach, Los Alamitos, Newport
Beach, Orange , San Juan Capistrano and San Diego County along with Loma Linda Corona just joined last night ! and many others soon to
follow




                                                 Justice Department Files Preemption Lawsuit
                                                 Against the ...
                                                 www.justice.gov

                                                 In a speech to the California Peace Officers' Association’s
                                                 Legislative Day, Attorney General Jeff Sessions today announced
                                                 that the Justice Department has filed a legal action against the
                                                 State of California, Governor of California Jerry Brown, and
                                                 Attorney General of California Xavier Becerra, seeking both
                                                 declaratory and injunctive relief ...




together we can make our state great again

Sincerely

John D. Roney




                                                                      1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/22/2018 2:31 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Mary Anne Deierlein <mdeierlein@yahoo.com>
Sent:                             Monday, May 21, 2018 5:22 PM
To:                               Council, City
Subject:                          School Corridor- Please approve the


Dear City Council,

I am writing in support of the contract to complete the Charleston‐Arastradero plan that we (the City of Palo Alto and
neighbors) have partnered together on for the last seventeen years (!).

From our first year in 1998 walking and biking as a family with three children to Fairneadow, then commuting to JLS
Middle School and finally to Gunn High School, we experienced being bumped by cars while walking our bicycles in the
crosswalks, we have dodged being hit by speeding cars running red lights, we have lost several of our crossing guards to
injuries, and have had a variety of mishaps caused by speeding drivers unaware of their surroundings and the fact that
they are on a major school route.

We have noticed the traffic calming improve and progress as the several phases have been implemented and have come
to fruition for our neighborhood and school commute route. As a result, we have record numbers of walkers and bikers
in our many public and private schools along this corridor as the modifications to date have proven the increase in route
safety and confidence of our community to use it.

Please complete this long planned and well developed concept for our major school artery serving south Palo Alto. As a
former PTA Traffic Safety representative, the implementation of the school corridor enhancements is a highlight and
feature of our part of the broader Palo Alto community and of our neighborhood school commute walking and biking
culture that we have worked so hard to create, foster and maintain.

We all have devoted our due diligence for about seventeen years in every phase of this vital and long awaited final
phase. Please make it a reality.

Sincerely,
Mary Anne Deierlein
318 Parkside Drive
Palo Alto, CA 94306




                                                            1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 7:53 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                 Jason Hahndorf <jhahndorf@hotmail.com>
Sent:                                 Monday, May 21, 2018 6:47 AM
To:                                   Council, City
Subject:                              Stop being evil scumbags


If you douche bags don’t stop violating everyone’s civil rights especially a specific Christian Honorable Upstanding Pastor
who you all could never even compare to in any way cause you’re all evil pieces of megalomaniacal narcissistic
materialistic worldly excrement!!!!!! You all make me want to puke!!!!!! One more thing happens to or is said about that
man and I will have the Civil Rights Division shut down the whole damn city and arrest you all!!!!!! Got that you little
fake public servant bitches!!!!!!!!!! Thank you, now get your heads out of your asses you evil scumbags!!!!!!! Don’t make
me come down to California to truly protect the people cause I will if I have to!!!!!!!

Ja(son) Adam Hahn(d)orf
1.1.1.7:7.1.1.1...
“The Hand”

Got that shit you assholes!!!!!!!!!

Sent from my iPhone




                                                             1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/18/2018 4:38 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Ann Pianetta <annpianetta@me.com>
Sent:                              Thursday, May 17, 2018 5:33 PM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           Survey


Dear City Council:
Today I was contacted for the fourth time to take this survey about my opinion of putting different tax proposals on the
November ballot. I was at the Financial Committee meeting this last month when you voted for this particular company
to conduct this survey. I am upset that you are spending MY taxpayer money on a company that can’t do their job
effectively. How can you take the information they are giving you when they are not randomly choosing people in the
City? You could get better results with Survey Monkey and that is free!

I don’t understand City Councils that have extensive educational backgrounds and then take taxpayer money for
consultants to figure stuff out for them — stuff they could figure out or have staff figure out for them. It is outrageous
and ridiculous. If you all can’t use your brains that God gave you why should I vote for you in the future?

Ann Pianetta
3815 La Donna Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94306
650‐384‐5744




                                                             1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/22/2018 2:38 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Mary Anne Deierlein <mdeierlein@yahoo.com>
Sent:                             Tuesday, May 22, 2018 12:50 PM
To:                               Council, City
Subject:                          Thank you!


Thank you all for the extensive consideration and vote on the final contract for the Charleston ‐ Arastradero school
corridor!

Mary Anne Deierlein
318 Parkside Dr.
Palo Alto, CA 95306




                                                            1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/22/2018 2:34 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                                Penny Ellson <pellson@pacbell.net>
Sent:                                Tuesday, May 22, 2018 2:00 AM
To:                                  Council, City
Cc:                                  Boyd, Holly; Eggleston, Brad; Tam, Valerie; Keene, James; Mello, Joshuah
Subject:                             Thank you.


Honorable City Council,

Thank you for moving the C-A Plan forward. I am very proud of our city for doing this…and grateful to you for making it
possible.

I am also very grateful to staff for the hard work they did to get this project ready to go!

Thank you.

Penny Ellson




                                                                1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/22/2018 2:39 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                               Nancy Krop <nkrop@kroplaw.com>
Sent:                               Tuesday, May 22, 2018 2:07 PM
To:                                 Council, City
Subject:                            Thank You


Dear City Council,

I was overjoyed to learn this morning that you voted last night, by 8‐1 vote, to approve the Charleston‐Arastradeo
contract.

You just made one very courageous, giant vote, for the safety of our children, bikers and pedestrians.

Heartfelt thanks for all your time and effort on this topic.

Nancy Krop
Barron Park neighborhood




                                                               1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/23/2018 10:46 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Bret Andersen <bretande@pacbell.net>
Sent:                              Tuesday, May 22, 2018 6:07 PM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           Thanks for Making Palo Alto a Better Place with the Charleston-Arastradero Project


Dear Council Members,

I commend and thank you for approving the next step for the is travel corridor. After listening to the comments for and
against last night I would like to clearly summarize all the good reasons our community worked so long and hard on this
and support it as a worthy use of City funds.

The Charleston‐Arastradero project is exemplary and the reasons below should be considered general requirements for
any significant transportation project paid from our city’s budget. This project:

    ‐   Advances us toward our City and Community goals as expressed in Comp and Sustainability plans
    ‐   Beautifies and calms a major roadway in South Palo Alto, increasing real estate values in the area
    ‐   Reduces congestion by creating a safe and pleasant route that will induce more people to walk and bike rather
        than drive
    ‐   Saves life and limb by enabling safer travel using all modes
    ‐   Has a reasonable price tag when weighed against the benefits that will be broadly spread over many years to the
        thousands of people who will use the route around the clock, every day
    ‐   Has a high probability of success given similar project histories in the city and elsewhere and the trends toward a
        high portion of alternative travel mode use compared to single occupancy cars
    ‐   Helps correct the historical imbalance of city spending, in this case reducing the deficit of investment in south
        Palo Alto infrastructure and facilities that increase quality of life for more Palo Altans

I hope that we continue to move forward with clear winners like Charleston‐Arastradero in the future.

Kind Regards,

Bret Andersen




                                                            1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/22/2018 2:35 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         William Robinson <williamrobinson@goldenworld.com>
Sent:                         Tuesday, May 22, 2018 7:05 AM
To:                           Council, City
Subject:                      Thanks for voting for Charleston-Arastradero improvements, a school crossing guard



Kudos to you for deliberating till midnight to approve a construction project over 15 years in planning,
nurtured by the citizens and previous councils.

William’Rob’ Robinson, member PABAC (Pedestrian and Bicycle Advisory Committee), Palo Alto since 2005




                                                      1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/23/2018 10:46 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                  Gloria Pyszka <gpyszka@yahoo.com>
Sent:                                  Tuesday, May 22, 2018 5:16 PM
To:                                    Council, City
Subject:                               The Arastadero/Charleston vote last night


Please accept my great appreciation for your votes that passed the Corridor issue. It
was difficult, I know, and I understand that your careful questions reflected your important roles as Council members.

As I said in my letter, we all have to make concessions about this issue. Ron and I feel that the right decision was
made.

Gloria Pyszka
East Charleston




                                                                    1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/22/2018 2:34 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com>
Sent:                          Monday, May 21, 2018 11:02 PM
To:                            dcbertini@menlopark.org; Council, City; citycouncil@menlopark.org;
                               paloaltofreepress@gmail.com; jrosen@da.sccgov.org; jay.boyarsky@da.sccgov.org;
                               swagstaffe@smcgov.org; myraw@smcba.org; acisneros@capublicrecordslaw.com;
                               Binder, Andrew; Cullen, Charles; bos@smcgov.org; Jonsen, Robert; Lee, Craig;
                               donald.larkin@morganhill.ca.gov; Kilpatrick, Brad; essenceoftruth@gmail.com;
                               gkirby@redwoodcity.org; HRC; stevendlee@alumni.duke.edu; Kan, Michael;
                               michael.gennaco@oirgroup.com; molly.o'neal@pdo.sccgov.org;
                               griffinam@sbcglobal.net; Perron, Zachary; jamespitkin777@yahoo.com; Keene, James;
                               Zelkha, Mila; miguel.rodriguez@pdo.sccgov.org; lydiakou@gmail.com; Holman, Karen
                               (external); council@redwoodcity.org
Subject:                       The Mississippi Man Tried Six Times for the same crime


https://mobile.nytimes.com/2018/05/20/opinion/mississippi-curtis-flowers-trial.html

Shared via the Google app


Sent from my iPhone




                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/22/2018 2:38 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Arlene Goetze <photowrite67@yahoo.com>
Sent:                             Tuesday, May 22, 2018 12:46 PM
To:                               Ken Yeager; Cindy Chavez
Subject:                          Vaccines--17x too much aluminum in babies


Forwarded by Arlene Goetze, NO Toxins for Children, photowrite67@yahoo.com 5-22-18
The Aluminum Autism Link 10
BY ANH-USA ON APRIL 11, 2018 VACCINE NEWS
www.anh-usa.org/the-aluminum-autism-link

*   Vaccines for newborns have 17 times allowable aluminum based on body weight
*   Autistic children have 10 times more aluminum in brains that considered safe for adults
*   FDA and CDC need to do rigorous testing
*   Parents need to have right to determine number/type put in their children

   A new study shows newborns are injected with 17 times the allowable level of aluminum.
   The peer-reviewed study demonstrates that aluminum doses in vaccines are based on efficacy—that is,
spurring the body’s immune response—rather than safety. This means, according to the researchers, that on
their first day of life, infants receive 17 times more aluminum than would be allowed if aluminum doses in
vaccines were set according to a baby’s body weight. The researchers also contend that errors were made in
establishing “safe” levels of aluminum exposure in humans, leading to dangerous levels of aluminum being
injected into young children.
   Another recent study found that autistic children have up to ten times more aluminum in their brains that
what is considered safe in adults.
   ANH-USA has been raising the alarm about aluminum in vaccines for a number of years. As the researchers
note, safety testing proving aluminum adjuvants to be safe when injected into children has never been
conducted. Established safety levels for aluminum exposure that are often referenced are based on ingested
aluminum, of which only about 0.25% is absorbed, rather than injected aluminum, where almost all of it is
absorbed over time—accumulating in various organs, including the brain.
   Animal studies have also demonstrated a link between repeated inoculation with aluminum-containing
vaccines and severe neurobehavioral outcomes (restlessness, muscle tremors, loss of response to stimuli), the
presence of aluminum in central nervous system tissue, and altered expression of certain genes in the brain.
   Given the mounting research showing both the dangers of aluminum exposure and concerns about the safety
of injecting young children with multiple aluminum-laden vaccines, it is imperative that parents are afforded the
right to choose which vaccines are appropriate for their children. It’s also time for the FDA and the CDC to stop
relying on mere belief that aluminum adjuvants are safe, and to conduct rigorous safety testing on these
vaccines.
Action Alert! Write to the FDA, CDC, and Congress telling them of this new study and urging more study of
aluminum adjuvants.

This website lists some 20 References on this subject.
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0946672X17300950?via%3Dihub
   ANH-USA. the Alliance for Natural Health, is part of an international organization dedicated to
promoting natural and sustainable health—and, in particular, consumer freedom of choice in healthcare—
through good science and good law.

                                                           1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 3:51 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Saksiri Tanphaichitr <saksiri@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Monday, May 21, 2018 9:54 AM
To:                              Council, City
Cc:                              Greg Tanaka
Subject:                         Writing in support of Ross Bike Blvd



Hi,

I live in the neighborhood and bike around it daily, as well as to further destinations southward a couple times a
week via Ross Rd. I was really excited for the changes and each change immediately makes things much safer
for me and my kids.

Notably:

- Large sidewalk on Louis and elimination of parking on Amarillo to come, which made a huge difference as
soon as it was ready to ride on -- this is currently very dangerous in the morning with hurrying parents trying to
park. For example, I’ve been blocked in the street by a parent in a car, and then backed into, on my bicycle as
they tried to park.

- Roundabouts make it easy to see traffic coming/merging. More than a couple times a month a driver fails to
see me at a four way stop. The roundabout makes this virtually impossible. It also often prevents confusion
about whether a car is going to let a bicycle proceed when all are stopped and figuring out whose turn it is.

- Cutouts on speed bumps that slow cars but not bicycles. With an electric bike I stay in front of cars at a steady
20 mph.

- Calming bumpers and center dividers: I can see why the bumpers may make some uncomfortable. But I would
have my kids go to the sidewalk for those spots. I see residents complaining that going on/off the sidewalk is
dangerous, but this is nothing new in Palo Alto with the rolled curbs -- itself a great feature that makes
kids/everyone more comfortable to use the roads but move off if need be. I am glad if the net effect is to make
drivers more attentive and cautious, and people just have to get used to it.

Finally as a resident I personally would voice my opinion that people have long used Ross as a cut-through. I
would support blocking through traffic as is done on Bryant, with accompanying calming on Colorado and
Loma Verde.

If there’s anything I can do to help speak out or any way to get involved please let me know. This is the biggest
single issue I care about as a citizen and resident of Palo Alto. Again, I am very excited to be part a step toward
making Palo Alto a 'life size city.'

Thank you!

Saksiri Tanphaichitr
Midtown/Palo Verde

      
                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 5/21/2018 3:51 PM
    
    
    
    




                                                     2
                    CITY OF
                    PALO
                                                                                                10
                    ALTO


            TO:           HONORABLE FINANCE COMMITTEE OF THE PALO ALTO CITY COUNCIL

            FROM:         MIKE SARTOR, DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT

            DATE:         MAY 16, 2018

            SUBJECT:      AGENDA ITEM NUMBER 10 - Public Works Department, Storm Drain Fund



            The attached memorandum is addressed to the Finance Committee from the Storm Water
            Management Oversight Committee. The oversight committee members have reviewed the
            Fiscal Year 2019 proposed budget for the Storm Drainage Fund. They found it accurately
            reflects capital and operating expenditures as described in the 2017 ballot measure and
            therefore accepted the proposed budget during their meeting held on April 18, 2018. They are
            forwarding their finding to the Finance Committee, as in past years.




~H          MIKE SARTOR
Uv   1..-   Director, Public Works Department




                                                                                                    1 of 1
•


        •
        CITY OF
        PALO
        ALTO
                                              Storm Water Management Oversight Committee


                                                                               MEMORANDUM

Date:            April 18, 2018

To:              Honorable Finance Committee of the Palo Alto City Council

From:            Members of the Storm Water Management Oversight Committee

Subject:         Review of the Proposed Fiscal Year 2019 Storm Drainage Fund Budget
As directed by the City Council, the Committee met to discuss the proposed budget on Wednesday, April
18, 2018. We have reviewed the proposed Storm Drainage (Storm Water Management) Fund budget for
fiscal year 2019 and compared it with the provisions of the Storm Water Management Fee approved by
Palo Alto property owners in 2017. Based on this review, we find that the proposed budget reflects the
CIP projects and operating expenditures approved in the ballot measure.

Prior to the meeting, Public Works staff provided informational materials about the approved 2017 ballot
measure and the proposed budget for the Committee' s review. During the meeting, staff presented
information regarding the Storm Drainage Fund capital and operating budgets, and answered questions
from the Committee members.

We find that the attached spreadsheet describing the proposed budget of the Storm Drainage Fund for
Fiscal Year 2019 and the document describing budget change items accurately describe the relationship
between the budget and the ballot measure. Staff and the Committee concur that there will be adequate
funding generated by the Storm Water Management Fee approved through the 2017 ballot measure to
fund the capital improvement projects, enhanced maintenance of storm drain system, storm water quality
protection programs specified for implementation in the ballot measure in Fiscal Year 2019.


Attachments
                                                                                                                                                                  4




STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
Fiscal Year 2019 Proposed Budget and Projections
                                                                                                                                                                  -
(Amounts in 1000s, adjusted for annual inflation)
                                                                     Adopted      Estimated     Proposed
                                                                     Budget       Projection     Budget Projection Projection Projection Projection
                                                                     Year 1        Year 1        Year2   Year 3     Year4      Year s     Year6
                                                                      2018          2018          2019    2020       2021       2022       2023
Revenue Collected                                                      7,1 78        7,184         7,382      7,595     7,815     8,041     8,273
Fee Revenue                                                            6,927         6,914         7,128      7,335     7,547     7,766     7,991
Interest Earnings                                                        130           150           130        133      137        140       144
Development Fees & Violation Fines                                       121           120           124       127       131        134       138

From Fund Reserve                                                           0             0          989         (0)     897        445       308
Total Revenue                                                          7,178         7,184         8,371      7,595     8,712     8,485     8,581


Annual Expenses                                                        6,300         6,195         8,371      6,698     8,267     8,177     8,581
Base Program (Incl. Water Quality, Flood Control)                      2,787         2,750         2,522      2,588     2,655     2,724     2,795
Storm Drainage Maintenance                                             1,486         1,440         1,603      1,645     1,687     1,731     1,776
Debt Service for Past Caoital Proiect                                   947            947           947       950       951        950       947
Capital Improvements Program (13)                                           0             0        2,200       400      1,840     1,620     1,892
   Loma Verde Ave Trunk Line Improvements (#1 / SD-19000)                                          2,200         0
   West Bayshore Road Pump Station (#4/ SD-20000)                                                              200        840
   Corporation Way System Upgrades and Pump Station (#2/ SD-21000)                                             200      1,000      1,220
   East Meadow Drive System Upgrades (#7/ SD-22000)                                                                                  400
Recurrino Svstem Reoair (SD-06101 l                                     400            400          412        424       437        450       464
Capital Program Engineering Suooort                                      175           175           182       187       192        197       202
Green Stormwater Infrastructure (GSI )                                  380            380          380        380       380        380       380
   GSI - CIP Design/Construction                                        33()111        33oJ11       33oJ11     300
   GSI - Consulting Services                                             35121          35'21        50131      4oJ31
   GSI - Other unassigned tasks                                           15             15            0         40
Innovative Project                                                      125            103           125       125       125        125       125
    Innovative Project - Green Stormwater Infrastructure                  0              0            30141     35141
    Innovative Project - Rebates                                        125              3             95        90
    Innovative Project - Other unassigned tasks                                        100

To Fund Reserve                                                         878            989            (0)      897       445        308          0
Total Expenses                                                         7,178         7, 178       8,371       7,595     8,712     8,485     8,581


111
   Charleston I Arastradero CIP project GSI elements
121
   Contract with EOA on development of GSI Plan
131
   Contract service to develop GSI engineering spec document
141
   Contract service to develop GSI maintenance and monitoring manual




                                                                                                                                                      4/18/2018
                                                                                                          {   ..

                 Stormwater Management Fund

Fiscal Year 2019 Budget Change Requests

  1.   Revenue: Fee increased by 2.9%
          a. Based on December 2017 CPI, fee will be increased from $13.65 to $14.05 per ERU
          b.    FY2019 Revenue estimate (based on Q2 Actuals) is $7.13M
           c. FY2018 Adopted budget for Fee Revenue is $6.93M
          d. The proposed increase is approximately $201K


  2.   Expense: Fiber Connection Fee Increase
          a. During construction, double-strand fiber was installed for the fiber optic connection
                between storm drain pump stations and creek monitors to ensure an outage wouldn't
                affect more than one camera in line.
          b.    This is a fee paid from the Storm Water maintenance budget to the Utilities Fiber Optic
                fund .
           c. FY2019 Expense estimate for this fee is $117,500
          d. FY2018 Adopted budget for this fee is $72,800
          e. The proposed increase is approximately $42,500


  3.   Expense: Public Safety Radio Service Fee Increase
          a.    Maintenance group acquired 6 public safety radios via Silicon Valley Regional
                Communications System (SVRCS).
          b.    This is a fee paid from Storm Water maintenance budget for the access fee of $420 per
                year per radio through a contract.
           c.   No fee was associated with the old radio system, so no budget was ever allocated.
          d.    FY2019 Expense estimate for this fee and the proposed increase is $2,520




                                                                                      April 17, 2018
                                                                                 U""")      J..:V   'oo \
                                                                                COUNCIL MEETING
                                                                                    5 \\J \ \'B
                                                                                  Received e1fore Meeting
                                                                                  Received at Meeting


North Ventura Coordinated Area Plan (NVCAP) Working Group:

1.     Angela Dellaporta - Resident within greater N. Ventura neighborhood (north of Ventura Ave)
2.     Kirsten Flynn - Resident within greater N. Ventura neighborhood (north of Ventura Ave)
3.     Terry Holzmer - Resident within Mayfield
4.     Rebecca Parker Mankey - Resident within greater Ventura neighborhood
5.     Gail Price - Resident within Barron Park
6.     Heather Rosen - Resident within greater Ventura neighborhood
7.     Lund Smith - Property owner (not single family home)
8.     Yunan Song - Resident within NVCAP
9.     Tim Steele - Property owner (not single family home)
10.    Carolyn Templeton - Resident within Barron Park
11.    Siyi Zhang - Resident within greater Ventura neighborhood

The NVCAP Working Group includes one representative from the Architectural Review Board (lih
Member), one from the Parks and Recreation Commission (13th Member) and one from the Planning &
Transportation Commission (14th Member).

Alternates to the NVCAP Working Group:

1.     Waldemar Kaczmarski - Resident within NVCAP
2.     Lakiba Pittman - Resident within NVCAP and business owner or work in NVCAP or surrounding
area
                                                                               COU ~CIL MEETING
                              City-School Liaison Committee                        5    )=1 ~\?<
                                      2018 Schedule
                                                                              OReceived       B
                                                                                            fore Meeting
                                                                              16mecelved at Meetina
         Date                                            Item
February 15, 2018       •   Library collaboration with PAUSD to issue students Library Cards
                        •   2018 Council Priorities
                        •   Agenda planning for 2018
March 15, 2018          •   Review of Recent City Council/PAUSD Board Meetings
                        •   2018 Summer Programs (City)
                        •   Planned bike and pedestrian improvements to Churchill Ave - City
                            Chief Transportation Official
                        •   Discussion of Agenda Topics for April and May
April 19, 2018          •   Review of Recent City Council and PAUSD Board Meetings
                        •   Update Coordinated North Ventura Area Plan
                        •   City and District Comments and Announcements
                        •   Future Meetings and Agenda's
May 17, 2018            •   Review of Recent City Council and PAUSD Board Meetings
                        •   City and District Comments and Announcements
                        •   Safe Routes to School - Rosie Mesterhazy, MPH, LCI #5255. Safe
                            Routes to School Coordinator, City of Palo Alto, Transportation
                            Division Department of Planning+ Community Environment
                        •   Cubberley Master Plan Update
                        •   Future Meetings and Agenda's
June 21, 2018           •    Review of Recent City Council and PAUSD Board Meetings
                        •    City and District Comments and Announcements
                        •    Future Meetings and Agenda's
July 19, 2018        Cancelled due to Council and PAUSD Holiday Break
August 16, 2018         •   Review of Recent City Council and PAUSD Board Meetings
                        •   City and District Comments and Announcements
                        •   Future Meetings and Agenda's
September 20, 2018      •   Review of Recent City Council and PAUSD Board Meetings
                        •   City and District Comments and Announcements
                        •   Future Meetings and Agenda's
October 18, 2018        •   Review of Recent City Council and PAUSD Board Meetings
                        •   City and District Comments and Announcements
                        •   Future Meetings and Agenda's
November 15, 2018       •   Review of Recent City Council and PAUSD Board Meetings
                        •   City and District Comments and Announcements
                        •   Future Meetings and Agenda's
December 21, 2018       •   Review of Recent City Council and PAUSD Board Meetings
                        •   City and District Comments and Announcements
                        •   Future Meetings and Agenda's
       ' ........   . ' ......   --                              City-School Liaison Committee
, . , "''   ~f,r       . , , 01 ~ .   . ,/
                                                                         2018 Schedule




                       To be Scheduled and/or Potential Items for discussion:

                                 •    Grade Separation                              •   Traffic School Team
                                 •    Middle School Athletics                       •   Shared use of facilities
                                 •    Coordination on Capital Improvement in        •   Teacher housing - thoughts and potential
                                      the right of way                                  collaboration
                                 •    Pension Liability                             •   Stanford GUP
                                 •    Emergency Preparedness                        •   Ways for City and District to work together
                                 •    Teacher & staff housing                           more effectively to accomplish shared
                                                                                        goals
                                                                                       U-TV\      ~L0f) \




                                                                                 l
                                                                                     co~,cit. lMEEnNG
                                                                                        ~ \1 \<i)
                                                                                     ~ ] Placed Before Meeting
                                                                                     ~   R.cGcivcd at Meeting
                              Table 5: SRTS Infrastructure Project Timeline

                         Project                         School Routes    Completion Date or Future
                                                             to be           Construction Start
                                                           Improved
    Churchill Avenue Enhanced Bike~y, Ph~se O            Palo Alto HS    Cempleted April io1s          -
    Cowper Street at Coleridge Avenue High-visibility    Walter Hays     Completed April 2016
    Crosswalks
    Georgia Ave High-visibillty Crosswalk and Curb      Terman MS        Completed Summer 2016
    Extension                                           Gunn HS
    Los Robles Avenue Bikeway Enhancements              Briones          Completed Summer 2016
                                                        Terman MS
                                                        Gunn HS
    Park BoulevarCI Bicycle Boulevard Early             dordan MS        Completed Summer 2016
    Implementation (Stanford Avenue to Cambridge        Palo Alto HS
    Avenye)         ,,
    Middlefield Road and North California Avenue         Jordan MS       Completed Fall 2016
    Complete Street Project                              Palo Alto HS
    Garland Drive Sflarrows                              Jordan MS       Completed Winter 2017
                                                        ·-
    Overcrossing/Undercrossing Improvements              Jordan MS       Completed August 2017
                                                         Palo Alto HS
    Arastradero Road at Donald Drive Spot Safefy         Terman MS       Completed September 2017
    Improvements
    Cowper Street at Coleridge Avenue Traffic Circle     Walter Hays     Completed September 2017
    Trial
    Amarlllo Avenue-Moreno Avenue Bicycle                El Carmelo      Under construction as part of
    Boulevard                                            Oh lone         NTSBBl:
                                                         Palo Verde
    Bryant Street Bicycle Boulevard Upgrade (Menlo       Addison         Under construction as part of
    Park City Limits to East Meadow Road)                El Carmelo      NTSBBl
                                                         JLS MS
                                                         Jordan MS
                                                         Palo Alto HS
                                                         Gunn HS
    Colorado Avenue at Sandra Place Spot Safety          Oh lone         Under construction as part of
    Improvements                                                         NTSBB1
    Louis Road-Montrose Avenue Bicycle Boulevard         Fairmeadow      Under construction as part of
                                                         JLS MS          NTSBBl
                                                         Gunn HS
                                    -
    Ross Road Bicycle Boulevard                          El Carmelo      Under construction as part of
                                                         Ohlone          N"FSBBi
                                                         Palo Verde
I

                                                         Jordan MS
                                                         Guhn HS
                                                         Palo Alto HS                              L
  ?.         I   '


                     I   '

Channing.Avenue and St Francis Drive Enhanced        Duve neck      Summer 2018
Bikeway
                                                                    Summer2018
                                                                                       - -       -
Charleston-Arastradero Corridor Project Phase 1      Barron Park
and 2                                                Briones
                                                     Hoover
                                                     Fairmeadow
                                                     JLS MS
                                                     Terman MS
                                                     Gunn HS                                     -
Bryant Street Bicycle Boulevard Extension (East      Fairmeadow     Fall 2018
Meadow Drive to San Antonio Road)                    Hoover
                                                     JLS MS
                                                     Gunn HS
Churchill Avenue Enhanced Bikeway, Phase 1           Palo Alto HS   Fall 2018                -
Maybell Avenue Bicycle Boulevard                     Briones        Summer 2019 as part of
                                                     Terman MS
                                                     Gunn HS
                                                                    NTSBB2         .
Park Boulevard-Wilkie Way Bicycle Boulevard          Barron Park    Summer 2019 as part of
                                                     Briones        NTSBB2
                                                     Terman MS
                                                     Gunn HS
Stanford Avenue Bicycle Boulevard                    Barron Park    Summer 2019 as part of
                                                     Briones        NTSBB2
                                                     Terman MS
                                                     Gunn HS
Charleston-Arastradero Corridor Project Phase 3      Barron Park    Summer2019
                                                     Briones
                                                     Hoover
                                                     Fairmeadow
                                                     JLS MS
                                                     Terman MS
                                                     Gunn HS
Churchill Avenue Highway-Railroad Crossing           Palo Alto HS   Fall 2019
Safety Improvement Project
East Meadow Drive and Fabian Way Enhanced            Fairmeadow     January 2020
Bikeway                                              Hoover
                                                     Palo Verde
                                                     JLS MS
                                                     Gunn HS
Source: Planning and Community Environment Department, May 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                              '¥


                                        PAUSD MIDDLE SCHOOL BIKE COUNTS, 1985-2017
    800    -.--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~




    700    --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---~~~~~~~~~~




    600    --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----~----1m-----t1------l----lm----i




    500 , •            •                                                                                -



    400    1•          •           •                                                             •      •

                                                                                                                                                                               • Jordan
                                                                                                                                                                               • JLS
    300
                                                                                                                                                                               • Terman



    200



    100                                                                                                                                                                        -:::si!J
                                                                                                                                                                               ...:7......
                                                                                                                                                                               ,c-........
                                                                                                                                                                                 ~
                                                                                                                                                                                 ,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                 n
                                                                                                                                                                                 ~-
                                                                                                                                                                                       II.I
                                                                                                                                                                                       l"I
                                                                                                                                                                                       2.
                                                                                                                                                                                           z
                                                                                                                                                                                          -n
                                                                                                                                                                                              n
                                                                                                                                                                                              on
                                                                                                                                                                                              CL_-;

                                                                                                                                                                                2. tJ:I            5-f.
        0 .                                                                                                                                                                     ~ g,          ~~
               spr
                     l~~5 1 199l l 1993 l 1997 1 2000 l 200l l 2002 l 2003 l 2004 l 2005 l 2006 l 2007 l 2008 l 2009 l 2010 l 201l l 2012 l 2013 l 2014 l 2015 l 2016 l 2017    ~~            m h'
              1985                                                                                                                                                              ~~            ~o
• Jordan      581                  420 370 273 275 290 333 358 364 361 443 495 527 546 624 736 610 633 627 581 629                                                              $· ~
                                                                                                                                                                               OQ er.
                                                                                                                                                                                              i:I
                                                                                                                                                                                              Z -
• JLS         298 537 290 320 290 191 241 185 200 271 280 319                                           351 463 456 490 512 533 584 581 651 617
                                                                                                                                                                                       ~      m
• Terman                                                              150 151 190 167                   210 184 199 236 253 263 275 279 276 254
                                           PAUSD MIDDLE SCHOOL BIKE COUNTS(%}, 1985-2017
 80%




 70%       +m:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--11-~~~~~~~~~~~~



 60%




 50% +9-I -~~~~~-ll--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--.~~1·.--~1·.--~1·i:-~




 40%



                                                                                                                                                                     • Jordan
 30%                                                                                                                                                                 • JLS
                                                                                                                                                                     • Terman


 20%




 10%




      0%
            spr
           1985
                  1~~15 1 1991 1 1993 1 1997 1 2000 12001 12002 12003 12004 I 2005 I 2006 I 2007 12008 12009 12010 I 2011 12012 12013 I 2014 12015 12016 12017
Jordan     74%                 61%   41%    25%   26%   29%    37%   41%    41%   40%    49%   53%    55%   56%   61%   I   72%   60%   57%   55%   50%   56%
JLS        46%    49%   33%    33%   27%    16%   23%   20%    25%   34%    32%   37%          38%   48%    45%   49%       51%   53%   53%   52%   54%   51%
Terman                                                         26%   24%    29%   25%          32%    28%   31%   36%       37%   37%   38%   37%   39%   37%    I

                                                                                                                                                                                  f
                                                                                                                                                                             ,;
                                                                                                                                                 '•

                                 PAUSD HIGH SCHOOL BIKE COUNTS, 1985 - 2017
1000     ....-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~




  900    -!-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~




  800    -1--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----1




  700    -+--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-




  600    -!-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----~·




  500    +--m-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--i


                                                                                                                                        • Gunn
                                                                                                                                        • Paly
  400



  300



  200



  100



    0
         1985 11993 11999 12000 12001 12002 12003 12004 12005 12006 12007 12008 12009 12010 12011 12012 12013 12014 12015 12016 12017
• Gunn 284           180         230   166   240   252   308   447   478   600   633   671   679   750   836   811   830   838   830
• Paly   553   300   220   160   160   200   234   289   273   377   433   520   582   741   787   758   805   837   845   869   786
                                     PAUSD HIGH SCHOOL BIKE COUNTS(%), 1985-2017
 50%



 45%     -'-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--~~~-:::~.-~~-


 40%



 35%     +-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~




 30% +--ll-~~~~~~~.:.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11;;;---



 25%     I     -

                                                                                                                                                                • Gunn

                                                                                                                                                                • Paly
 20%



 15%



 10%



  5%



  0%
             1985 l 1993 l 1999 l 2000 l 200l l 2002 l 2003 l 2004 l 2005 l 2006 l 2007 l 2008 l 2009 l 2010 l 201l l 2012 l 2013 l 2014 l 2015 l 2016 l 2017
• Gunn 20%                 11%   I     I 14% I 10%     14%   15%    18%    24%    25%    31%    33%    36%    36%    41%    45%    43%    44%    44%    42%
• Paly       33%    25%    15%   I 11% I 11% j 12%     14%   17%    16%    22%    26%    30%    32%    40%    42%    39%    42%    43%    43%    44%    38%

                                                                                                                                                                              r
                                                                                                                                                                         •'
Distinguished City Council/School Board Liaison Committee Members,

On behalf of PAST Heritage congratulations on 100 years of Palo Alto High School at its
El Camino Real and Embarcadero Road campus, and your centennial plaque, which was
presented last Sunday, May fr• at the Lucie Stem Community Center. This is a notable
achievement. Built back in 1918 at the end of World War I, at a building cost of $200,000, this
Italian Renaissance Revival structure was designed by architects Allison & Allison. The
Mediterranean characteristics and quality of the original structures relate directly to the
architecture of Stanford University and widespread popularity of the Spanish Colonial Revival
style of the period. The building is noted as a significant cultural and historic landmark, and a
Category 2 resource on the City of Palo Alto, Historic Buildings Inventory. This is probably the
oldest still existing historic public Palo Alto structure. Over the decades there has been
considerable debate over these historic buildings, and preservation has always won. Almost 30
years ago, in 1989, the beloved Paly campanile was threatened by the Loma Prieta earthquake,
and was lovingly stabilized and restored. The current size and location of this historic
structure gives particular importance and prominence as a visual focal point and the front
door of the more recent buildings on the Palo Alto High School campus complex.

Unfortunately today the original 1918 historic Palo Alto High School building is once again in
jeopardy, as the currently proposed adjacent solar carport project could detrimentally impact
the historic setting and diminish the visual quality of the original century old structure. While
Palo Alto Unified School District is exempt from local regulation under the Field Act, the
impacts of the proposed solar carport scheme is significant enough that it merits historic
review and analysis under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). This state law
requires that all buildings and structures over 50 years old, and those listed on local, state, or
Federal historic registers undergo a qualified Historic Resource Evaluation (HRE), and
Historic Structures Report (HSR) as to the appropriateness of modifications, alterations, and
adjacent construction; reviewed, evaluated, and analyzed for potential incompatibility.

While the price of solar panels have become economically competitive, and represents a
significant renewable energy resource in the never ending goal to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions and battling global warming, the proposed location of the solar carports are
incompatible with the historic appearance of the Renaissance Revival architecture. The
location of the proposed solar carports along the frontage of both El Camino Real and
Embarcadero Road would be viewed as a dominant feature; an irreconcilable blemish on the
century old historic edifice. But, there are suitable alternatives to your proposed solar strategy.

At the beginning of this century with deregulation of electric utilities and transmission grid
access, renewable energy can now be located on any suitably oriented property, and
transferred to any other site. With the exception of Stanford University, Palo Alto Unified
School District represents the single largest landholder within the municipality and school
district boundaries. Surely there are other suitably oriented PAUSD properties or non-historic
school sites, where these solar panels could be stationed, and renewable electricity generated
and transferred through the municipal electric grid to the Palo Alto High School campus.
Google Project Sunroof is an online resource, available free to the public, to help analyze any
property's orientation and suitability for installing solar panels.

However, in this particular case renewable energy does not automatically trump historic
review and evaluation. As the lead agency, if the PAUSD intends to pursue this solar carport
scheme, the PAST Heritage board urges the Board of Education to immediately undertake the
necessary historic review process, notice and schedule timely community public hearings,
solicit citizen feedback on the solar carport proposal, and make sufficient findings required for
historic review and evaluation, with an appropriate public appeal period and process.

Thank you for your consideration. Please feel free to call on myself and PAST Heritage, as a
community resource, in assisting P AUSD navigate the historic review process.
Congratulations again on the Centennial Anniversary of Palo Alto High School at its present
location, as we prepare to celebrate Palo Alto's Quasquicentennial in 2019.

Sincerely yours,



Lee I. Lippert, AIA
President PAST Heritage
                                                                                      •
How to Cross Middlefield and Embarcadero




                      ~A~    Student Riders
                      00     0      Wait in the blcydewaltlng area
                                    when light is red.
                             6
                             W
                                    Bike accross the street inthe
                                    aossblke when light is green.        ts:= Q
                                                                          :::ti '"O
                                                                          ~' ~
                      "'-    Student Walkers
                                                                          ~·
                                                                         ~~'
                                                                              'ct
                                                                               2.

                             O
                                                                         fi ~
                      1\-           Wait on the sidewalk
                                                                         ..... 0

                                    when light is red.
                                                                         g·g
                             8      Use the yell'ow orosswalk to         OQg·  8
                                                                              OQ
                                    cross the street.

                             Submit questions or concerns through
                            Palo Alto 311 : www.cityofpaloalto.org/311
                  How to use   the
                           to Terman
                                     Bike Box



                       o01-1"1.P 1)\\\-J"-



                                                                                                                                                 ~


 New Signal Patterlt               Green lights on Donald and Terman will begin running separately starting early September.
                                   The new pattern will be: 1) Donald, 2) All-walk phase, 3) Terman, 4) Arastradero

                                                         e                           ee                      II               fl
                                                                                           -ee
Cyclists:   o   cycleon      .     Look over left            Line up in green                                                      Proceed cautiously
                right side         shoulder for cars         box during red                                                        to multi-use path.

 Jo             of street,
                not on
                sidewalks.
                                   coming from behind.

                                   Sig~al left.
                                                             light, as far left as
                                                             possible, or in
                                                             green lane.
                                                                                                   OR      Dismount and walk
                                                                                                           with crossing guard
                                                                                                           during all-walk signal.
                                                                                                                                   Yield to pedestrians.



                                   Merge into green lane.    Wait for green light.    Turn left by bike with green arrow.

Drivers:


•                Wait behind the bike box.
                 Yield to cyclists in front of you.         ...          No parking at the new red curbs
                                                                         on Donald
                                                                                                                  Submit questions or concerns through
                                                                                                                  Palo Alto 311:
                                                                                                                  www.cityofpaloalto.org/311
                                                                                                                                                           ff
•


                                        SEEN THE NEW RAISED?
                                        CROSSWALKS •
                                        A raised crosswalk is a speed hump with a
                                        crosswalk on top. Drivers slow down, so they
                                        are more likely to stop for people crossing.
                                        It is safer and easier to cross the street on a
                                        raised crosswalk.

        What to know about raised crosswalks ...
     Raised crosswalks have             People in a raised                     It is easy to cross
     a speed hump marking               crosswalk are easier to                the street at a raised
     to alert drivers and               see and stop for because               crosswalk because there
     cyclists to slow down.             they are higher than                   are no ramps to go
                                        the rest of the roadway.               up or down.




    If yo~' re          Use a raised crosswalk like any other crosswalk.


    crossing ...         Look left, right, left again, then cross when it's safe.
                         Make eye contact with drivers and bicyclists before stepping into the
                         crosswalk. Make sure they've seen you and are waiting for you to cross.
                         Pay attention to your surroundings.
                                                                                                                                       II




                             What's a Bicycle Boulevard?
As defined in the City of Palo Alto's Comprehensive Plan 2030 adopted by City Council on November 13,
2017, a bicycle boulevard is "a low volume through-street where bicycles have priority over automobiles,
conflicts between bicycles and automobiles are minimized, and bicycle travel time is reduced by the removal
of stop signs and other impediments to bicycle travel." Palo Alto's Bicycle Network. defined in the 2012
Bicycle and Pedestrian Transportation Plan is made of several types of bicycle facilities, including bike
lanes, multi-use paths, bike routes, and bicycle boulevards.

How do I drive safely on a bike boulevard?
   •   Expect people on bikes to be in the travel lane.
   •   Obey the posted speed limits.
   •   Pass people on bikes only when it is safe. California law
       requires three feet of space between you and the bicycle.
   •   Do not pass a person on a bike if:
           o you are going through narrow areas                                    3FT FOR SAFETY ACT
           o you would have to cross a double yellow line                          SAFm TIPS FOR MOTORISTS
                                                                                   • Slow down neor bicychsls
           o there is not enough space to pass                                     • Poy ollenl on and ovoid driving d1slracl1ons
           o there is oncoming traffic                                             • Look tor blcychsls before opening vour car door

   •   Do not honk at cyclists unless you are warning of imminent
       danger.

How do I bike safely on a bike boulevard?
   •   Ride in a straight line in the travel lane so that you are highly
       visible and out of the "door zone." The large "Bike Blvd" stencils
       indicate where you should be positioned in the lane.
   •   Do not ride on the sidewalk or so far to the curb that you have to
       swerve back into the travel lane when you encounter a parked car
       or a curb extension.
   •   Obey all stop signs and signal your turns.

What about the roundabouts?
   •   Before approaching the roundabout, cyclists in a bike lane
       should carefully signal and merge into the car lane, making
       sure to look over their left shoulder for cars. Yield to traffic
       already in the roundabout. Enter the circle by bearing right
                                                                                                        Splitter
       and ride in the center of the lane. Do not let cars try to pass                                    sland
       or share the lane with you in the roundabout. Young children.
       or cyclists uncomfortable merging into the car lane can use
       the bike exit ramps leading to the sidewalk, then dismount                                   Right Tum
       from their bike, and proceed as a pedestrian.
   •   Before approaching the roundabout, Drivers should not
                                                                                                     ~
       share the approach with a bike. Slow down in advance of
       the approach and expect bicycles in the bike lane to merge
       into the car lane before entering the roundabout approach. Yield to oncoming traffic, then proceed
       right and travel around the circle pictured above. Drive single file. Do not share the lane with bikes.
   •   Pedestrians should cross in the designated crosswalks, using the splitter island as a safe space to
       wait if cars are approaching.
                                                                                   ~-                                                             .        J   ~lma ~et
Barron Park                                                                                                                                   Park Boulevard

Elementary School                                                                                     QJ
                                                                                                      ::J
                                                                                                      c
                                                                                                                                                                               QJ
                                                                                                                                                                               ::J
                                                                                                                                                                               c

                                                                                                      ~                                                                        ~                                                                                  QJ

WALK AND ~OLL TO SCHOOL                                                                                                                                                        - 1---1----1
                                                                                                                                                                               1lE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ::J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      QJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ::J
                                                                                                   -~                                                                                                                                                             ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ~


                                              -•
SUGGESTED ROUTES                                                                                   0

-
                                                                                                                                                                               j                                                                                  Qj
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .5                 l!!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   :;                 ,all!!!i----'
           Suggested Route                                                                                                                                                                                                       ;;;                                                 c
                                                            Bicycle Parking                                                                                                                                                                                       u
           (Walking and Biking)                                                                                                                                                                                                 ::.1E                                                ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        _ _ _I _ _ _

• •• •     Suggested Route (Walking Only)
                                                 I          Traffic Signal




@
   XX(Xl

  ~~
           Est. Walking llme (Biking Time)

           Crossing Guard Location

           Pedestrian and Blcycle Access     CJ
                                               1111111111
                                                            All-Way Stop

                                                            Marked Crosswalk

                                                            Attendance Area
                                                                                                                                                               ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .. . -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ...... ...~.lllb:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ~-


  -
 Inset
           Multi-use Path

           Vehicle Barrier                   lllill!ll
                                                            Parks and Open Space

                                                            School
                                                                                                                      ~"v,'
                                                                                                                        ,
                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                      ~,
                                                                                                                                          ·'::tt.e/
                                                                                                                                                                >-'
                                                                                                                                                                ~
                                                                                                                                                                c
                                                                                                                                                                S!c                                                                                          .-.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               a1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               "'     Magndlia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Drive


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ',
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        \

                                                                                                                      I                                         "'
                                                                                                                                                                J:                                                                                                      "'.., La Donna Street                                       ,4,r       I
                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                          ·~e,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            QJ                ...
                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                              "'~,'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  =01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   "' ::J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  "'Cl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ::J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ~c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    , I"'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       \
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        "' QJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ~ ::J


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        c.. cQJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ~~

                                                                                                                                                                                     "'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  c QI                                      \
                                                                                                  I                                                                                                                                                                                             \
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,2~        g                                                                 QJ


                                                                                                                                                                                              I /
                                                                                                                                                                                               I                                                                                                    \                          ::J
                                                                                                                                                                                                    ~
                                                                                   ] II        :                                                      /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ~                    See Ins             "'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            al                                          \
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               c


                                                                                   :E
                                                                                           I
                                                                                           I                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    "'::J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   "iij
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        r                                       El Centro \
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Stfeet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '                  "'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               QJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              :;s
                                                                                   QJ                                                                                                                               E                                                                                                          0
                                                                                   &.     '
                                                                                          I
                                                                                          I                                                                                          ''
                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   :c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   u                                                                                6 (2)1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              a:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               "'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ..9 --~---
                                                                                          I                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                     '
                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                           ''                                                                                         \                                                                                  _J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                            '\\                                                                                           \
                                                                                                                                                                                              \
                                                                                                                                                                                                  \                                                                   Laguna                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I

                                                                                               \                                                                                                      \                                                               Avenue
                                                                                                      \                                                                                                   \
                                                                                                                                                                                                              \
                                                                                                          \
                                                                                                              \                                                                                                   ' ... ... ......
                                                                                                                  \
                                                                                                                      \
                                                                                                                          \
                                                                                                                              \                                       Vi
                                                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                                                          ~
                                                                                                                                  \
For more Safe Routes to School information, please visit:                                                                             \                                   ~
                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                          \                               c
www.cityofpaloalto.org/saferoutes                                                                                                             \
                                                                                                                                                      \               J:  "'
The Palo Alto Safe Routes to School Partnership encourages parents and                                                                                    ''
students to use this map to explore options for commuting between                                                                                              ''
home and school. Parents are responsible for choosing the most                                                                                                        '
                                                                                                                                                                               ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,'
appropriate option based on their knowledge of conditions on the
different routes and the experience level of their student
                                                                                   0      1/8                                                             1/4
                                                                                                                                                                               ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                          C)•---
                                                                                                                                                                                                          :~·~g JL f'I!fw-------
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ...... , ...
                                                                                   c:::====:::::i---•                                                       Miles
                                                                                                    ,                                                                                 :
                                                                                                  ,,
                                                                                                                                                       ,//
                                                                                                                                                                                  ,
                                                                                                                                                                                ,,
                                                                                                                                                                      /
                                                                                                                                                   /              /
                                                                                               ~

                                                                                                                                                             ,,
                                                                                                                                               I

Ellen Fletcher                                                                                                                             /
                                                                                                                                                                          ,,
                                                                                                                                                                            /

Middle School                                                                                                                     ,,
                                                                                                                                       ,

                                                                                                                              <

WALK AND ROLL TO SCHOOL                                                                                                   .,,;/   '\
SUGGESTED ROUTES                                                                                                  /
                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                          /
                                                                                                            I
-                   Suggested Route (Walking and Biking)                Bicycle Parking
                                                                                               ......1
                                                           ~
• • • •             Suggested Route (Walking Only)
                                                                        Pedestrian Beacon
~XX (X) Est Walking Time (Biking Time)

      t-f.                                                   I          Traffic Signal


    @
    ~
                    Crossing Guard Location

                    Pedestrian-Only Access                  •
                                                           lllllllftl


                                                             ......,.
                                                                        All-Way Stop
                                                                        Marked Crosswalk
                                                                        Vehicle Barrier
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ' A_,
                    Pedestrian and Bicycle Access
                                                       C:=J                                                                                                                                                                                        'A..


..
                                                                        Attendance Area
-
    .............
                    Multi-use Path
                                                                        Parks and Open Space                                                                                                                                                 /
    .....--..       Pedestrian and Bicycle Bridge
                                                       -                School
                    Bike Box                                                                   . . . , .......,




    Inset




    For more Safe Routes to School information, please visit:
    www.cityofpaloalto.org/saferoutes                                                            ', A,,
                                                                                                    '':((~
                                                                                               ...... '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I,
                                                                                                                                                                                          Clos Altos-Palo Alto Bike Path                     I
                                                                                                   . <:':--__" ?>qa                                                                                                                      I
    The Palo Alto Safe Routes to School Partnership encourages Ellen
                                                                                                      oo,~/'~~~f'()"ti
                                                                                                                             A

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
    Fletcher parents and students to use this map to explore options for
    commuting between home and school. Parents are responsible for                                          :i-.o,.es:;."' ·~>
    choosing the most appropriate option based on their knowledge of                                                                   ~
    conditions on the different routes and the experience level of their
    student.
                                                                                                                                                                                I               0               1/8
                                                                                                                                                                                                i::::===::i---• Miles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1/4
.
I

         2018 PALO ALTO SAFE ROUTES TO SCHOOL CITY/PTA/PAUSD PARTNERSHIP FIVE-YEAR WORK PLAN*

    MISSION




                                                                                                                                   ~
    GOAL                                                                                                                                 PlacedBe ore Meeting
                                                                                                                                   [     Received at Meeting
    To grow and strengthen community-wide support through the SRTS E's mad                                                             ar safe, active, healthy, sustainable
    school commutes

    OBJECTIVES

     1 Adoptand               2                         3     Expand and             4                            5
                                                                                                                                                                              Commit to an
     institutionalize               Provide,                 enhance SRTS                                          Engineer routes             Increase awareness &
         key SRTS               continue and            I     events and                                               to school to                  engagement
                                                                                                                                                                                equitable
                                                                                                                                                                              distribution of
                              enhance school                                             Gather data to
      practices and                                         encouragement                                          develop a more                    between City
                                                                                          assess and                                                                          SRTS resources
     policies across          and community-                 programs and                                         safe and efficient           Departments and the            to encourage
                                  based SRTS                                             improve SRTS
             the                                              materials to                                             network for                  community to
                                                                                            program                                                                             broad SRTS
       Partnership                education                  communicate                                                 families               advance awareness              community
                                  programs,                                                outcomes
       and gather                                             the value of                                            choosing active           of the SRTS mission,           participation
     best practices             materials and               SRTS to parents,                                          transportation             goals & strategies
            from              communications                 students and
        elsewhere                                           the community



                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                              I
    YEAR 1 STRATEGIES: 7/1/17-6/30/18 -TO BE COMPLETED BY 6/30/18
                                                                                                  I                             I                                         r                    "
           Work                 Build out two                     Increase                  Participate in                Complete two                 Update City            This goal was
         toward              Stanford service                  Spanish and                countywide SRTS                       site                Comprehensive             not developed
      PAUSD SRTS           learning education,                  Mandarin                       data pilot                                             Plan policies
                                                                                                                          assessments
                               evaluation &
          policy                                                 materials                     Integrate                   and update
                              enforcement
        adoption                                              Develop SRTS                Statewide Traffic              Walk and Roll
                                 projects
                                                               educational                System (SWITRS)                      Maps
                            Expand Youth for                      posters                  data into SRTS
                             Environmental
                           Sustainability Cont.               Develop SRTS                Pilot online travel
                              Participation                   Public Service                      tally
                                                             Announcements


     YEAR 2 STRATEGIES: 7/1/18-6/30/19

       Develop a               Explore optional                  Develop a
                                                                                                      I
                                                                                           Develop a PAUSD                  Complete                    Create an             Conduct a bike
     PAUSD SRTS                and compulsory                communications                parent survey to                two site                  enforcement              repair class with
        policy to              SRTS high school                 plan outline                    evaluate                 assessments                    strategy               student input
    sustain ongoing                education                                                   participant              with updated             to reflect changing
     commitment                     programs                  Develop a public              demographics                Walk and Roll             staffing levels by           Promote safer
     from PAUSD                                              list of carpooling               and identify              Maps for Palo               shifting traffic          routes for East
                                                                 resources                   challenges to                Verde and             enforcement role to           Palo Alto PAUSD


                                                         l_                                   more active                 Gunn H.S.                 patrol officers               student




                                                                                                                                 I I
                                                                                            transportation                                                                       bicyclists


                                                                        I                             I
     *Five-Year Work Plan goals and strategies depend on the Safe Routes to School Partnership's funding and capacity, and may be subject to change as demand dictates.
       2018 PALO ALTO SAFE ROUTES TO SCHOOL CITY/PTA/PAUSD PARTNERSHIP FIVE-YEAR WORK PLAN




YEARS 3-5 STRATEGIES: 7/1/19-6/30/22                                          I                         I                      I                     I
This strategy            Explore 2019-         Develop Back to            Develop a              PAUSD develops            Develop a              Develop
    has not yet      20 optional and           School Night            behavior change-         a yea rly CSTSC            crossing             plan and
       been              compulsory          presentation slide         focused SRTS            presentation to                                program to
                                                                                                                       guard training
    developed            SRTS M.iddle                                                                                                          outreach to
                                                                         infographic                 assess
                                             Ensure standard                                                                  and            audiences with
                           School                                                               transportation
                                              SRTSlanguage                                                              curriculum to         special needs
                          education                                       Develop an             impacts from
                                               included in all         interact ive SRTS                                 standardize
                          programs                                                           school attendance,
                                             PAUSD websites              Google map                                     how crossing
                                                                                              boundary cha nges
                                                and parent
                                                                                                 and overflow               guards
                                         \      handbooks
                                                                                                                           perform
                                                                                                                           common
ONGOING STRATEGIES
                                                                                                                            tasks .
Goal 1: Adopt and institutionalize key SRTS practices and policies across the Partnership and gather best practices from
elsewhere
      •    Support SRTS Champions/Teams at each school site
      •    PTA advocates for rebuilding the PAPD traffic team
      •    PTA inspires action and educates potential leaders about public process, governance and SRTS Advocacy
      •    Support increased uniform patrol presen ce to encourage and enforce compliance with existing laws
      •    Revisit, renew and confirm the roles of the Partnership through the Five-Year Work plan
      •    Maintain the City School Traffic Safety Committee as a forum to further the Safe Routes Partnership's mission, goals and strategies
      •    Improve communication of the policy and policy dissemination


Goal 2: Provide, expand and enhance school and community-based SRTS education programs and materials
      •    Cultivate a commun ity of parents and others to build a network of skilled leaders for education and advocacy
      •    Support active transportation events during the year by setting up information tables, assisting families w ith route planning and responding to
           infrastructure concerns
      •    Maintain K-2 in-class educational offerings and optimize the program to match student capabi lities, support educational best practices and
           incorporate infrastructure updates
      •    Maintain 3'd grade Bicycle Life Skills Curriculum in-class and optimize program to match student capabilities, support educational best practices
           and incorporate infrastructure updates
      •    Maintain 5th grade in-class educational offeri ngs and optimize t he program to match student capabilities, support educational best practices and
           incorporate infrastructure updates
                     1
      •    Maintain 6 h grade in-class educational offerings and optim ize programs to match student capabilities, support educational best practices and
           incorporate infrastructure updates
      •    Maintain 8th grade offerings and optimize programs to match student capabilities, support educational best practices and incorporate
           iofrastructure updates
      •    Align parent messages with student educational programming
      •    Grow Youth for Environmental Sustainability Conference participation
      •    Build out bus/shuttle resources and assist with schedules


Goal 3: Expand and enhance SRTS encouragement programs and materials to communicate the value of the SRTS program
to parents and across the community
      •    Support Spring Walk & Roll Week
      •    Support Fall Walk & Roll Week
      •    Support Bike to Work Day
      •    Support Bike Palo Alto
      •    Communicate program activit ies and successes to the broader community




2
_,   .
         2018 PALO ALTO SAFE ROUTES TO SCHOOL CITY/PTA/PAUSD PARTNERSHIP FIVE-YEAR WORK PLAN
         •   Use Walk and Roll Maps and "Safety Tips for Peds/Bikes/Drivers" as part of messaging
         •   Employ purposeful incentives to support SRTS participation
         •   Communicate the value of bicycling, walking, transit and sharing rides
         •   Enhance website functionality and user experience.
         •   Support parent education, including Back to School Nights, spring information nights for rising 5th, 6th and 7th graders and providing SRTS
             information in Back to School packets.


 Goal 4: Gather data to assess and improve SRTS program outcomes
         •   Incorporate traffic and engineering data into mode split and modal share assessments
         •   Explain the purpose of data collection to PAUSD administrators and share the data in a way that encourages and does not compare schools
         •   Conduct yearly online travel tallies for PAUSD grades K-12
         •   Conduct yearly bike counts
         •   Submit yearly travel tally data to the Santa Clara County Health Department
         •   Manage local and administrative data requests


 Goal 5: Engineer routes to school to develop a more safe and efficient network for families choosing active transportation
         •   Assist with bicycle infrastructure design review to inform the planning process.
         •   Design and provide materials and education about new infrastructure improvements
         •   Advocate as a Partnership for the rapid implementation of bike network, bike boulevards and arterial projects
         •   Respond to Palo Alto 311 requests.
         •   Conduct community site visits
         •   Update school Walk and Roll Maps upon request
         •   Provide crossing guard management, including assessing needs, developing contracts and replying to public feedback


 Goal 6: Deepen SRTS awareness and engagement across City Departments and among community representatives to
 advance and institutionalize awareness of the SRTS mission, goals and strategies

         •   Support the build-out of the City of Palo Alto Bicycle and Pedestrian Transportation Plan
         •   Provide students and families with transit system information and offer guidance on proposed transit changes
         •   Model walking, biking, carpool and transit through daily transportation decisions
         •   Assist with plans to develop a more efficient roadway network for families choosing active transportation.
         •   Collaborate with local agencies, including public works, utilities, law enforcement and district officials to support motorists, pedestrians, and
             bicyclists
         •   Update SRTS Onboarding Manual
         •   Promote awareness of Traffic Safety Control guidelines
         •   Integrate SRTS into long range planning efforts
         •   Integrate SRTS into current planning efforts


 Goal 7: Commit to an equitable distribution of SRTS resources to encourage broad SRTS community participation
         •   Develop Spanish and Chinese language materials
         •   Promote a "no-guilt approach" to encourage participation via all transportation modes
         •   Support free services, such as bike repair, helmet and bike light distribution and compulsory education to ensure that under-resourced students
             can access important safety resources in a way that does not stigmatize them
         •   Ensure ongoing awareness regarding the geographic distribution of SRTS staff time and resources among Palo Alto regions and across
             neighborhoods
         •   Support off-site free or low-cost alternative commute transportation services that are targeted to at-risk families




 3
     Choose Health. Drink Water•                                             ......




                                                                    '{ l Placed         fore Meeting
                                                                  . fjl. Received at Meeting
The American Heart Association recommends the
following limits on daily consumption of added sugar:


0        teaspoons for
         children under 2        6   teaspoons for children
                                     ages 2-18 and adult women            9           teaspoons for
                                                                                      adult men


   The sugar in one 20 ounce soda is about equal to the sugar in •••




                                                       -                      -
  20 oz                                  4 chocolate           6 glazed                    3 slices of
  soda             sugar cubes           candy bars           doughnuts                   pumpkin pie
·-----------------------------------------------------------------------------·
Protect your health. Use these tips to help you hydrate
better with water:


     I
   Carry a
                      30
                     Drink some          Eat more           Drinkwater                  Add tasty
 water bottle        water every         fruits and         before and                 herbs, fruits,
  with you           30minutes          vegetables         during meals                and veggies


                                                                                        Santa Clara County
                                                                                        PUBL!C
                                                                                        HEALTH
                                                              CIJY OF PA~O ALTO. CA
                                                               Cl;fY CLERK'S. Qff'ICE           3465 Kenneth Drive
     i,                                                                                         Palo Alto, CA 94303
                                                               18.HAY 17 AH IQ: 15
                                   Palo Alto City Council
                                   Office of the City Clerk
                                   250 Hamilton Avenue
                                   Palo Alto, CA 9430)

I                                  Re: Special Meeting on Monday, May 21, 2018
                                   Wireless Communication Facility Permits
I.   I         1



                                   I am unable to attend the meeting.                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                      l
                                                                                                                                  '11
                                   My question is: why are we charging so little to the for-profit communication companies            I
                                                                                                                                  I
                                   who want to improve their commercial service by installing devices on our City's
                                   infrastructure?

                                   Why are we not charging based upon the utility that installing those devices provides to
     '         i
                                   those companies? That is, why not charge based upon numbers of connections made or
                                   number of "connection-minutes" flowing through the devices?

                                   We are not charging for the value received by the communication company - i.e.
                                   increased capacity and better coverage.

                                   I believe that the City should maximize its opportunities for revenue, and this is certainly
                                   one. I feel that what we are charging is too low for the value delivered. That is my
                                   primary objection.

                                   Sincerel9,/    ./

                                       (;:;i{jvtr-
                                   CarlJone~




                           '
                           I,
                       'i
                       hI      ,
                       I   I   '
                           I


          j        1       I
                       'I


          i,   Ii I
              ,,
                                                                                                       FINANCE COMMITTEE MEETING
                                                                                                       __05/23/2018__
                                                                                                       [ ] Placed Before Meeting
                                                                                                       [X] Received at Meeting


                                                                                                                     Item # 1

                                                              City of Palo Alto

                                                         MEMORANDUM

TO:                    Finance Committee

DATE:                  May 23, 2018

SUBJECT:               FY 2019 Budget Wrap-up Memorandum


Executive Summary
This memorandum includes additional information pertaining to the Fiscal Year 2019 Proposed Budget,
summarizes changes to the City Manager’s Fiscal Year 2019 Proposed Budget, brings forth
recommended actions to revise the Fiscal Year 2019 Proposed Budget, and responds to questions raised
by the Finance Committee during previous budget hearings. Please refer to the table of contents below
for specific items.


Contents
1)        ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE FISCAL YEAR 2019 PROPOSED BUDGET ............ 2
2)        CHANGES TENTATIVELY APPROVED BY THE FINANCE COMMITTEE ................................................. 3
3)    STAFF RECOMMENDED CHANGES &FOLLOW-UP OF FINANCE COMMITTEE ‘PARKING LOT’ ITEMS
FOR FURTHER DISCUSSION ........................................................................................................................... 3
     Budget Process ‘Parking Lot’ Summary ................................................................................................... 4
     Staff Recommended Changes to Operating Budget ................................................................................ 5
     Staff Recommended Chages to the Capital Improvement Budget .......................................................... 6
     FY 2019 Municipal Fee Schedule ............................................................................................................. 7
4)    SUMMARY OF FINANCE COMMITTEE REVIEW OF FY 2019 PROPOSED BUDGET (ACTIONS,
REFERENCE, & REFERRALS) ........................................................................................................................... 8
     Finance Committee Tentative Motions & Materials Distributed (actions & reference materials) ......... 8
     Future Follow-up Items (potential referrals) ........................................................................................... 8
5)        LIST OF ATTACHMENTS ..................................................................................................................... 9




                                                                         1

                                                                         1
1) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE FISCAL YEAR 2019 PROPOSED BUDGET
During the Finance Committee hearings, requests for additional information were made by the
Committee members. This section addresses the Finance Committee’s requests in regards to the Fiscal
Year 2019 Proposed Budget.

General Fund Structural Reduction of $5 million (Requested 5/15/2018 by Vice Mayor Filseth)
The Finance Committee unanimously approved a request for up to $5 million in structural reductions in
the General Fund from the FY 2019 Proposed Budget. This request stemmed from a desire to begin
looking at structurally addressing the unfunded pension obligation the City faces, especially if the
CalPERS rate of returns is calculated at 6.2%. The annual General Fund cost of that difference is
approximately $8.2 million. The Finance Committee requested reductions of half of that ($4 million) to
begin to close that gap and added another $1 million for “flexibility” when they look at the impacts of
the reductions, thus $5 million. Due to the short turn-around time, this request will be responded to
directly at the Finance Committee on the May 23, 2018.

Development Services Key Performance Measures (Requested 5/15/2018 by CM Scharff)
The Finance Committee requested clarification on the “Average Number of Day from Issuance to Final
for the construction phase of a commercial tenant improvement.” The increase from FY 2016 Actuals to
FY 2017 Actuals was due in part to the City’s adoption of new Green Building & Energy Reach
requirements which increased developer’s construction schedule and staff inspection timelines. The FY
2019 Proposed value was erroneously calculated by using the average of actuals from FY 2014 to FY
2017 without taking into consideration the ongoing increases from the new code requirements. Staff
will recalculate this estimate to more accurately reflect current time frames, which are now running at
approximately 182 days.

Development In-Lieu and Impact Fees (Requested 5/16/2018 by CM Kou)
The City issues a report to provide information about developer fees on an annual basis. These funds
are aggregated in the budget document for reporting simplicity. However, for accounting purposes, and
to comply with State law AB 1600, these funds are segregated from other funds of the City with interest
on each development fee fund or account credited to that fund or account and used only for the
purposes for which the fees were collected. Per State law (Government Code Section 66006) each local
agency that imposes development impact fees must prepare an annual report providing specific
information about those fees. Typically, this report is provided in January or February of the year
following the fiscal year end close; the most recent report was approved by City Council on January 22,
2018. City Manager’s Report #8753 Annual Status Developers’ Impact Fees FY 2017 can be found here:
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/62814.

Planning and Transportation Committee Review (at staff’s behest)
On May 22, 2018, the Planning and Transportation Committee (PTC) reviewed and determined, based
on staff representation, that the new projects in the FY 2019-2023 Capital Improvement Plan are
consistent with the City’s current Comprehensive Plan. Attachment A is the letter and additional
information the PTC wished to transmit to the Finance Committee. The transcribed minutes from the
meeting are not yet available and will be referenced in the City Manager Report to transmit the final
budget adoption for FY 2019 in June 2018.




                                                  2
                                                                                            5/23/2018
                                                  2
2) CHANGES TENTATIVELY APPROVED BY THE FINANCE COMMITTEE

Throughout the Finance Committee Hearings, the Committee has tentatively approved a number of
components of the City Manager Proposed FY 2019 Operating and Capital Budgets. This section
describes Finance Committee recommended changes made to the budget.

GENERAL FUND

City Auditor’s Office
The Finance Committee on May 15th, 2018, approved a tentative motion to eliminate 5.0 full-time
positions (2.0 Senior Performance Auditor, 2.0 Performance Auditor II, and 1.0 Performance Auditor I) in
the Office of the City Auditor and adds 80% in contract services funding for outside auditing services
leaving only 1.0 position remaining, the City Auditor. The addition of $500,000 in contract services
funding offsets this reduction in staffing resulting in a reduction in appropriated funds of approximately
$230,000 in the General Fund, and $340,000 in all funds.

City Manager’s Office of Sustainability
The Finance Committee on May 15th, 2018, approved a tentative motion to shift 0.75 Management
Analyst, funding for contracts and support, and allocated charges from the Office of Sustainability to the
City Manager’s Office. This action would support continued work on the City of Palo Alto’s sustainability
initiatives and recommends the elimination of 1.0 Chief Sustainability Officer position and other
remaining funding in the Office of Sustainability. This is intended to reflect the matriculation of
Sustainability Implementation Plans into routine business processes and various City initiatives
throughout the organization. This would result in a reduction in appropriated funds of approximately
$200,000 in the General Fund. The City Manager had recommended (essentially) this action but
effectively de-funding the Chief Sustainability Officer on Dec 31, 2018.

SPECIAL REVENUE FUNDS

University Avenue Parking District Fund – Valet Services
The Finance Committee on May 16th, 2018, approved a tentative motion to add funding of $290,000 in
FY 2019 for the extension of valet parking services to align with the anticipated opening of the new
University Avenue parking garage. This funding would maintain the ability to accommodate up to 135
additional spaces per day and is intended to mitigate parking supply constraints in the downtown
parking district area. Sufficient fund balance is available to support this action in Fiscal Year 2019.



3) STAFF RECOMMENDED CHANGES & FOLLOW-UP OF FINANCE COMMITTEE ‘PARKING LOT’ ITEMS
   FOR FURTHER DISCUSSION

This section outlines staff-recommended changes to the proposed budget and those items that were
approved by the Finance Committee to be placed in the ‘Parking Lot’ for further discussion and
additional information. The intent of the Finance Committee was to revisit items placed in the ‘Parking
Lot’ as part of the final budget wrap-up meeting prior to returning to the City Council for the FY 2019
budget adoption.



                                                    3
                                                                                               5/23/2018
                                                    3
Budget Process ‘Parking Lot’ Summary

During the budget hearings, the Finance Committee moved items to the ‘Parking Lot’ for further
discussion at a future meeting. This section outlines those items and provides additional information
requested by the Finance Committee and/or provided at staff’s behest in regards to the items in the
parking lot. Staff hopes that this additional information will facilitate the Committee’s review,
discussion, and approval of these items.

GENERAL FUND

Library Department
As directed by the Finance Committee on May 16, 2018, a verbal update will provided to address the
Finance Committee’s questions and comments. Questions included discussion over additional hours at
certain locations, the relative circulation and spend rates for electronic content versus print materials.

Public Works Department – Urban Forest Master Plan Funding Request
The Finance Committee on May 16th, 2018, approved a tentative motion to place the Public Works
Department General Fund budget in the 'parking lot' pending a recommended offset to the addition of
ongoing funding for the implementation of the Urban Forest Master Plan on an ongoing basis. Staff has
assessed the progress of the tree trimming cycle and determined it has been completed more efficiently
than initially anticipated. (Effectively achieving a better than 7-year cycle). Therefore, staff recommends
reducing the funding allocated for the tree trimming contract by $150,000 while maintaining the 7 year
trimming cycle and reallocate this funding on an ongoing basis to fund the Urban Forest Master Plan.

OTHER FUNDS

Vehicle Maintenance & Replacement Fund – electric vehicles & vehicle inventory
The Finance Committee on May 16th, 2018, approved a tentative motion to place the Vehicle Fund
budget in the ‘parking lot’ pending additional information on the current list of vehicles up for
replacement and a cost comparison of electric vehicles (EV) to conventional vehicles. Staff
has determined that there is not yet sufficient information on the total cost of operating and owning
EVs to provide a comprehensive comparison within the City’s replacement policies.

The City’s vehicle replacement policy specifies that electric vehicles are provided whenever possible as
replacements occur. Fully supported and warrantied electric vehicles are now available in the passenger
sedan vehicle class. Non-police sedans and sport utility vehicles make up 60 of the fleet’s approximately
370 vehicles (the total for vehicles and equipment is 558). Approximately 16 passenger sedan vehicle
replacements are planned over the proposed five-year plan. Staff anticipates striving to replace all of
these with electric vehicles including the potential leasing of vehicles as a consideration too. Fleet staff
have not identified fully supported electric options for compact or heavier duty trucks, which make up
about 180 fleet vehicles. However, as an additional step towards comprehensively evaluating the use of
electric vehicles, a pilot for electric compact pickup trucks is anticipated to be conducted in FY 2019.

Lastly, attached is the vehicle replacement list that outlines the tentative plan for the five-year capital
improvement plan for replacement activities (Attachment B).




                                                     4
                                                                                                 5/23/2018
                                                     4
Staff Recommended Changes to Operating Budget

GENERAL FUND
Federal Transit Administration Grant
This action recognizes anticipated grant funding from the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) of
$780,000 and a corresponding increase in the appropriation expense in the City Manager’s Office in the
General Fund. This grant provides funding for a research project to evaluate approaches to reducing
single occupancy vehicle trips. This funding provides the budgetary authority for this grant project,
which includes significant collaboration with local partners including Prospect Silicon Valley, the San
Francisco Bay Area Planning & Urban Research Association (SPUR), and technological innovators in the
commuter management sphere. More information on this grant, including the individual contract
agreements, will be brought forward to City Council as the grant progresses. The first contractual
agreements are anticipated to be ready for City Council review and approval before the end of FY 2018;
necessary appropriation actions for FY 2018 will be brought forward at that time as appropriate.

Planning Division Staffing Reorganization
This action recommends the reorganization of the Planning Division of the Planning & Community
Environment Department. This division of approximately 15.0 full-time positions has historically
struggled in recruiting and retaining staff as well as providing succession planning. The following net-
zero realignment is recommended after a study was completed with the Human Resources Department:

    -   Delete 1.0 Planning Manager and add 1.0 Planning Division Manager
    -   Delete 1.0 Senior Planner and add 1.0 Principal Planner
    -   Delete 2.0 Senior Planner and add 2.0 Associate Planner
    -   Change the title of Chief Planning Official to Planning Division Manager in the Management &
        Professionals Compensation Plan

Ultimately, the objective of this reorganization is to 1) enable recruitment of a high level planning
division manager to fill a long-vacant position on the department’s leadership team, and 2) create a
structure that allows new managers to develop their skills as Principal planners before rising higher in
the leadership team. Below looks at the current and proposed staffing levels:

                              Planning Division Staffing Reorganization
                                                          Current
                                                        Authorized      Proposed
                                                          Staffing       Staffing                                        Change
        Planning Division Manager1                               1.00          2.00                                          1.00
                                           2
        Planning Manager/Principal Planner                       2.00          2.00                                          0.00
        Senior Planner                                           7.00          4.00                                        (3.00)
        Planner                                                  4.00          4.00                                          0.00
        Associate Planner                                        1.00          3.00                                          2.00
                                               Total            15.00         15.00                                          0.00
        1
            Current classification/title is “Chief Planning Official.” Recommended to be retitled to “Planning Division Manager.”
        2
          Eventually the intent is that all “Planning Manager” positions be reallocated to “Principal Planner” classifications
        through attrition.




                                                                      5
                                                                                                                                    5/23/2018
                                                                      5
VARIOUS FUNDS
Utilities Department – Fiscal Impact of the Electric and Water Rate Changes
Subsequent to the development of the FY 2019 Proposed Operating Budget, revised rate adjustments to
the Finance Committee for Water on April 17th, 2018 and for Electric on May 15th, 2018 were approved.
For more information on these proposed rate changes from FY 2018 to FY 2019, see City Manager
Report #9158 reviewing the Electric rates and City Manager Report #9143 reviewing the Water rates.
The fiscal impact of these changes in FY 2019 was discussed with the Finance Committee on May 15th,
2018 and is summarized below. Staff evaluated both the implications on the enterprise funds as a
customer of the utility services. No adjustment to Utility User Tax revenue estimates and estimated
costs for electric and water services are recommended at this time, however, will be monitored during
the year and adjustments brought forward as necessary.
City Manager Report #9158: https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/64921 City
Manager Report #9143: https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/64557

    •   Electric Fund: Revenue estimates included in the FY 2019 Proposed Operating Budget for the
        Electric Fund were based on 8% rate increase from FY 2018 to 2019. Subsequent to the
        production of the Proposed Budget, Utilities staff indicated that an increase of 6% is more
        appropriate. This lower increase is due mainly to revisions and reductions in estimates for
        ongoing operations costs. Primary factors for the recommended increase from FY 2018 to FY
        2019 include rising transmission access charges, the cost of new renewable electricity
        purchases, and capital improvement project costs. With this lower increase, the overall
        revenue is expected to decrease by 1.9%, or approximately $2.5 million from the Proposed
        Operating Budget of the Electric Fund.
    •   Water Fund: Revenue estimates included in the FY 2019 Proposed Operating Budget for the
        Water Fund were based on a 4% rate increase from FY 2018 to 2019. Utilities staff has
        subsequently revised their rate adjustment down to 3%. This lower increase is recommended
        based on revised purchase cost estimates from the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission
        and greater use of reserve fund balances to help smooth rate increases over time. Overall, the
        year-to-year increase is mainly due to increasing costs of several near-term capital projects,
        including the rehabilitation of storage reservoirs and tanks, as well as upgrades to customer
        metering. With this lower increase, the overall revenue is expected to decrease by 1.0% or
        approximately $0.4 million from the Proposed Operating Budget of the Water Fund.



Staff Recommended Chages to the Capital Improvement Budget

VARIOUS CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUNDS: Reappropriations
As described in the Proposed Capital Budget document and discussed during the Finance Committee
Budget Hearings, the City Council approved change in the method for accounting for capital budget
reappropriations is included in the 2019-2023 Proposed Capital Budget Improvement Program (CIP).
Previously, any unspent capital funds carried forward from one fiscal year to the next automatically, as
long as the project was active. As a result of the October 2014 change to the Municipal Code, City
Council authorization is now required for reappropriations. The FY 2019 budget process continues this
process with the current FY 2019 Proposed Capital Budget including approximately $36.6 million in
reappropriated funds for project expenditures, across all funds.




                                                   6
                                                                                             5/23/2018
                                                   6
In the time since the Proposed Budget figures were developed (early spring of 2018), departments have
re-reviewed current year estimates and the reappropriation amounts built into the proposed CIP.
Additional reappropriation adjustments are recommended as part of this wrap-up memorandum in
order to update the FY 2019 Capital Budget with current, more refined estimated activity levels in Fiscal
Year 2018.

Cumulatively, this re-review of projects has resulted in staff’s recommendation to increase the Fiscal
Year 2019 Proposed Capital Budget by a net total of $11.1 million, from $211.7 million to $222.8 million,
and are recommended in the following funds:

                                                        Recommended Fiscal Year 2019
                                Fund                        Funding Adjustment
              Capital Improvement Fund                                        $7,560,500
              Cubberley Infrastructure Fund                                    -$370,000
              Electric Fund                                                   $3,502,000
              Gas Fund                                                          $150,000
              Technology Fund                                                   $200,000
              Vehicle Replacement Fund                                         -$565,000
              Wastewater Treatment Fund                                         -362,000
              Water Fund                                                        $971,000
              Total All Funds                                                $11,086,500

These adjustments, as outlined by project in Attachment [C], combined with those outlined in the
Proposed Capital Budget will ensure that funds are available at the onset of Fiscal Year 2019 for
projects that have experienced delays in the current year and will reduce the Fiscal Year 2019
Proposed budget for projects that experienced higher than anticipated expenditure levels within
Fiscal Year 2018. In total, reappropriations of an estimated $47.7 million remain below those
assumed in the FY 2018 Adopted Capital Budget of $60.9 million.


FY 2019 Municipal Fee Schedule

Subsequent to the finalization of the FY 2019 Proposed Municipal Fee Schedule Staff Report (CMR
#9210), staff discovered that one of the changed fees was inadvertently omitted from the report. Staff
alerted the Finance Committee of this omission during the May 16th meeting, and the details of that
particular fee are included below.

    •   Comprehensive Plan Maintenance Fee: This fee was evaluated and updated as part of the
        Development Services Department’s Fee Study in FY 2018. Based on the recommendation from
        the Fee Study, staff proposes to change this fee to align with that study.
            o FY 2018 Adopted rate: $0.55 per $1,000 of construction valuation
            o FY 2019 Proposed rate: $1.08 per $1,000 of construction valuation

Additionally, the Finance Committee requested fee-based General Fund revenue data during the
Municipal Fee discussion at the May 16th meeting. The Finance Committee specifically asked to examine
the level of revenue adjustments programmed into the FY 2019 Proposed Budget in the General Fund as

                                                   7
                                                                                              5/23/2018
                                                   7
a result of fee changes. Overall, fee-based revenue for FY 2019 is approximately $31.6 million. This
represents an increase of 11% or approximately $3.0 million from FY 2018 with the primary driver of
that increase assuming the renovated golf course will be open for 12 months during FY 2019.


4) SUMMARY OF FINANCE COMMITTEE REVIEW OF FY 2019 PROPOSED BUDGET (ACTIONS,
   REFERENCE, & REFERRALS)

Finance Committee Tentative Motions & Materials Distributed (actions & reference materials) Action
Minutes to the Finance Committee Hearings can be found on the City’s webpage here:
http://www.cityofpaloalto.org/gov/agendas/finance/default.asp. In addition, throughout the Finance
Committee Budget Hearings, various memorandums were distributed “At Places” in order to respond
to inquiries made by the Committee or provide additional pertinent information at staffs behest. In
addition, summary presentations were given at each hearing providing high level overviews of each
item. Specific meetings and reference links to materials are outlined below.

May 15, 2018 Finance Committee
Action Minutes: pending
Presentations: https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/65147
Video: http://midpenmedia.org/finance-committee-50-2-2-2-2-3/
At Places Memorandums:
    - Retiree Healthcare Plan Actuarial Valuation:
        https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/65134
    - Proposed Electric Utility Rate Changes:
        https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/65105
    - Proposed Gas Utility Rate Changes:
        https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/65106

May 16, 2018 Finance Committee
Action Minutes: pending
Presentations: https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/65148
Video: http://midpenmedia.org/finance-committee-50-2-2-2-2-2/
    - At Places Memorandums: Storm Drain Fund Budget:
       https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/65108


Future Follow-up Items (potential referrals)

During the Finance Committee hearings, the Committee voted to refer a few items for further staff
follow-up at a later date with the Committee. The list below is reflective of referral items from the
Finance Committee to the City Council for direction to Staff to complete and return to the Finance
Committee at a later date.

   1. Direct Staff to return to Finance with a discussion of the Fees discussed during this Agenda Item.
      Examples include but are not limited to the review of activities the City currently regulates and
      evaluate if it is necessary to continue to regulate such activities and review special events fees
      and policies


                                                  8
                                                                                             5/23/2018
                                                  8
    2.   Direct Staff to bring to the Finance Committee by August 2018 a policy discussion on the
         strategy for prioritizing Capital Improvement Project criteria

Various discussions arose around more in depth review of or summary information regarding topics or
service delivery changes not currently included in the FY 2019 Proposed Budget. Staff has noted these
items and anticipates that information could be brought forward for consideration in the near term.
These topics include but are not limited to:

         Review of risk, cost, and compliance of replacing pool cars with ridesharing reimbursement
         Review of risk, cost, and compliance of moving from purchasing to leasing vehicles
         Review of costs and benefits to the City of the Print and Mail Fund
         Review of parking garage security camera options
         Comprehensive parking funding sources and fund structure guide

5   UST OF ATTACHMENTS

Attachment A: Planning & Transportation Committee Review
Attachment B: FY 2019-2023 Tentative Vehicle Replacement Schedule
Attachment C: FY 2019 Capital Reappropriation Budget Adjustments




DEPARTMENT HEAD:




CITY MANAGER:




                                                                                             5/23/2018
                                                    9
ATTACHMENT A




     10
11
                                       ATTACHMENT B
Vehicle Replacement List_FY-2019
 Unit#   Year   Miles/Hrs              Make/Model                                       Class                Dept
 1243    2005    1857hr        Clark TMX 25 Electric Forklift   20E-Forklift Electric                         ASD
 2381    2000    71023                Ford F-250 P/U            05X-Dumps <11,001 GVWR                       Parks
 2426    2004    97116             Ford F-150 P/U CNG           05C-Truck/Van 6-11K CNG                      Parks
 2430    2001    96119               Ford F-150 P/U             05-Truck/Vans<6-11K                          Parks
 2482    1997    2117 H            John Deere Turf Gator        23D-Small Construction                       Parks
 2483    1997    1600 H            John Deere Turf Gator        23D-Small Construction                       Parks
 3173    2003    875hr          Caterpillar Vibration Roller    23D-Small Construction                       Parks
 3177    2003                        MQ/Essick Roller           24G01- Essick Roller                          PW
 3217    2003    1588hr            Cimline Crack Sealer         24G- Trailer W/Engine & Electric Brakes       PW
 3235    2001    85125      GMC "T" Series 4-Yard Patch Truck   08X-Dumps > 26,0001 GVWR                      PW
 3255    1999    4293hr            Zieman Thermo Unit           24GC- Trailer W/Engine & Air Brakes           PW
 3349    2001    34,002        Peterbilt 8-Yard Dump Truck      08X-Dumps > 26,0001 GVWR                      PW
 3383    2003    49,034       Ford F-550 Utility Dump Truck     06X-Dumps > 11,001-15,000 GVWR                PW
 3520    2001    53575       Ford F-550 w/ chipper body Truck   06X-Dumps > 11,001-15,000 GVWR                PW
 3733    2003    72655               Ford Ranger P/U            04-Compact Truck/Van                          PW
 4203    2004    56,488              Chevy Trailblazer          04-Compact Truck/Van                        Refuse
 4212    2001    34,662               Ford F-250 P/U            05-Truck/Vans< 11K GVWR                     Storm
 4381    2003    77,179              Ford Ranger P/U            04-Compact Truck/Van                        Refuse
 4477    2007    1048hr      Isuzu Nitehawk 3-Yard Sweeper      15S- Air Sweeper Small                      Refuse
 4486    2009    3118hr     Allied 636HS Parking Lot Sweeper    15S- Air Sweeper Small                      Refuse
 4601    2004    35,451         Honda Civic Sedan CNG           01-Subcompact Sedan CNG                     WQCP
 4712    2004    43,513            Ford F-150 P/U CNG           05C-Truck/Van 6-11K CNG                     Storm
 4723    2004    52,274            Ford F-150 P/U CNG           05C-Truck/Van 6-11K CNG                     Storm
 4989    2004   110,050            Ford F-150 P/U CNG           05C-Truck/Van 6-11K CNG                      Fleet
 5136    2014    53129           Chevrolet Caprice Patrol       03- PD Marked All                              PD
 5213    2014    49709           Chevrolet Caprice Patrol       03- PD Marked All                              PD
 5227    2014    38247           Chevrolet Caprice Patrol       03- PD Marked All                              PD
 5259    2014    46570           Chevrolet Caprice Patrol       03- PD Marked All                              PD
 5321    2014    41913           Chevrolet Caprice Patrol       03- PD Marked All                              PD
 5322    2014    48700           Chevrolet Caprice Patrol       03- PD Marked All                              PD
 5323    2014    42147           Chevrolet Caprice Patrol       03- PD Marked All                              PD
 6045    2011    45,760        Chevrolet G4500 Ambulance        12- Ambulance                                 Fire
 6046    2011    53,724        Chevrolet G4500 Ambulance        12- Ambulance                                 Fire
 7121    2003    68,642            Ford Ranger Ext Cab          04-Compact Truck/Van                       Utilities
 7257    2000    67,603          Ford F250 W/Utility Body       05X-Dumps <11,001 GVWR                     Utilities
 7451    2004    93675             Ford F-150 P/U CNG           05C-Truck/Van 6-11K CNG                    Utilities
 7630    2004    55,435         Honda Civic Sedan CNG           01-Subcompact Sedan CNG                   Utilities Pool

 7640    2004    93,956              Ford F-150 CNG             05C-Truck/Van 6-11K CNG                    Utilities
 7675    2004    61,685              Ford F-150 CNG             05C-Truck/Van 6-11K CNG                    Utilities
 7831    2004    34,875              Ford F-150 CNG             05C-Truck/Van 6-11K CNG                    Utilities
 NEW                                   GMC Terrain              04-Compact Truck/Van                          Fire




                                                         12
Vehicle Replacement List_FY_2020
 Unit   Year   Mileage                  Model                                       Class        Dept
 1254   2002   25,120         Chevrolet Astro Cargo Van         04-Compact Truck Van               IT
 1421   2004   49,952              Ford-Ranger P/U              04-Compact Truck Van            Planning
 1423   2004   51,118              Ford-Ranger P/U              04-Compact Truck Van            Planning
 1433   1996   60,790           Ford Taurus GL Sedan            01- Automobile                  Planning
 1434   2003   35,491              Ford-Ranger P/U              04-Compact Truck Van            Pool MSC
 1435   2007   44,119              Ford-Ranger P/U              04-Compact Truck Van            Planning
 1436   2008   45,170           Ford-Ranger XLT P/U             04-Compact Truck Van            Planning
 2433   2004   33,232               Ford-F150 P/U               05- Truck Van < 11K GVWR         Parks
 2487   2005   62,129      Ford-F350HD 2-Yard DumpTruck         05X-Dumps < 11,000K              Parks
 2488   2005   64,350      Ford-F350HD 2-Yard DumpTruck         05X-Dumps < 11,000K              Parks
 2701   2000   50,120            Ford Windstar P Van            04-Compact Truck Van             Parks
 2736   1998   1100 H           John Deere Turf Gator           23D-Small Construction           Parks
 2754   2001   33,880      Ford-F350HD 2-Yard DumpTruck         05X-Dumps < 11,000K              Parks
 2756   2001   28,210            Ford F450 HD Truck             06F-15,000K GVWR                 Parks
 2758   2002     n/a              Club Car Electric             23D-Small Construction           Parks
 2770   2003   38,240        Ford-F550 HD Flatbed Truck         06X2-Dumps 11- 15K               Parks
 3129   2000   76,712            Ford-F550 HD Truck             06X -Dumps 11- 15K                PW
 3155   2000   76,882           Isuzu - FRR W/C/Body            07- Trucks 15-26K                 PW
 3357   2000   42,897            Ford F450 HD Truck             06F-15,000K GVWR                  PW
 3720   2000   35,265           Ford-Ranger Xcab P/U            04-Compact Truck Van              PW
 4650   2000   51,390            Chevrolet-C2500 P/U            05- Truck Van < 11K GVWR         WQCP
 4715   2004   48,520              Ford - F250 P/U              05- Truck Van < 11K GVWR         Storms
 5293   1999   57,546              Ford Ranger P/U              04-Compact Truck Van              PD
 5465   2005   65,142            Honda Accord Sedan             02- Police Unmarked               PD
 5469   2006   57,332            Chevy Impala Sedan             02- Police Unmarked               PD
 5614   2004   38,820    GO-4 Interceptor Parking Enforcement   16A- AVT-Utility Vehicle          PD
 5616   2004   41,120    GO-4 Interceptor Parking Enforcement   16A- AVT-Utility Vehicle          PD
 6176   2001   15,250            Ford F450 HD Truck             06F-15,000K GVWR                  Fire
 6185   2000   23,119            Ford-F550 HD Truck             05X-Dumps < 11,000K               Fire
 7434   2000   61,052           Ford F-250 P/U/W/U/B            05- Truck Van < 11K GVWR        Utilities
 7507   2001   85,638              Ford Ranger P/U              04-Compact Truck Van            Utilities
 7524   1996   35,819           Ford-Ranger Xcab P/U            04-Compact Truck Van            Utilities
 7542   1996   108,142              Ford-F150 P/U               05- Truck Van < 11K GVWR        Utilities
 7668   1991     na           Standard Pole/Cable Trailer       26C- One Axle Trailer Req CHP   Utilities
 7669   1991     na           Standard Pole/Cable Trailer       26C- One Axle Trailer Req CHP   Utilities
 7704   2003     na          Sauber 3-Reel Cable Trailer        26C- One Axle Trailer Req CHP   Utilities
 7713   2000   18,913       Ford F-550 HD Truck W/Aerial        05X-Dumps < 11,000K             Utilities
 7719   2001   70,854           Ford-Ranger Xcab P/U            04-Compact Truck Van            Utilities
 7759   1987     na                Magline Utrailer             26- One Axle Trailer            Utilities
 8321   2001   43,660        Ford F-350 HD Truck W/UB           05X-Dumps < 11,000K             Utilities
 8326   2001   59,814        Ford F-350 HD Truck W/UB           05X-Dumps < 11,000K             Utilities
 4204   2007   37625               Ford F-150 P/U               05- Truck Van < 11K GVWR        Utilities




                                                      13
Vehicle Replacement List_FY_2021
 Unit   Year   Mileage                  Model                                      Class                    Dept
 2445   1995     na              Turfco Top Dresser            26- One Axle Trailer                         Parks
 2496   1999     na             Ditch Witch Trencher           99- Ditch Witch Trencher                     Parks
 2792   1993     na            Jacobsen Utility Trailer        26- One Axle Trailer                         Parks
 2828   1998   52,658            Chevy C-2500 P/U              05-Truck/Vans< 11K GVWR                      Parks
 3179   2000   36,569           Ford F-550 Saw Truck           06- Trucks 11-15K GVWR                        PW
 3210   1999     na                Ziemen Trailer              28- Trailer > 10K                             PW
 3245   1999     na            NPK Hydraulic Hammer            99- Attachments                               PW
 5103   2007    8,970            Ford Fusion Sedan             02- Police Unmarked                           PD
 5210   2016   15,283              Ford Interceptor            03- PD Marked All                             PD
 5231   2016   27,195              Ford Interceptor            03- PD Marked All                             PD
 5242   2017   23,847              Ford Interceptor            03- PD Marked All                             PD
 5260   2016   29,700              Ford Interceptor            03- PD Marked All                             PD
 5465   2005   73,598           Honda Accord Sedan             02- Police Unmarked                           PD
 5469   2006   61,379           Chevy Impala Sedan             02- Police Unmarked                           PD
 5576   2016   18,291              Ford Interceptor            03- PD Marked All                             PD
 5608   1996   49,137             Ford Ranger P/U              04-Compact Truck/Van                          PD
 5722   2016   28,895              Ford Interceptor            03- PD Marked All                             PD
 6047   2013   34,628       Chevrolet G4500 Ambulance          12- Ambulance                                 Fire
 6048   2013   50,334       Chevrolet G4500 Ambulance          12- Ambulance                                 Fire
 6170   1995     na            Wells Cargo 14' Trailer         27-2 Axle Trailer                             Fire
 6216   2000     na            Wells Cargo 14' Trailer         27-2 Axle Trailer                             Fire
 6220   2000     na            Wells Cargo 14' Trailer         27-2 Axle Trailer                             Fire
 6545   2000     na            Wells Cargo 14' Trailer         27-2 Axle Trailer                             Fire
 7258   1999   40,800             Chevy Astro Van              04-Compact Truck/Van                        Utilities
 7474   1997     na          Condux Cable Pulling Trailer      24G-Trailer W/Engine & Electric Brakes      Utilities
 7494   1983     na                 Cable Trailer              26- One Axle Trailer                        Utilities
 7602   2004   11,674        Peterbilt 335 Digger Derrick      11- 26,001K BIT Aerial Inspection Diggers   Utilities
 7645   2004    4,438    Peterbilt 357 Flatbed W/Crane Truck   11D10- 0355 30K Crane Truck                 Utilities
 7646   1977     na         Kinney Trailer Vacuum Pump         26- One Axle Trailer                        Utilities
 7648   1998   90,892             Ford Ranger P/U              04-Compact Truck/Van                        Utilities
 7697   1998   32,403     Freightliner FL-80Flatbed W/Crane    0355- 30K Crane Truck                       Utilities
 7705   1999     na               WAP Arrow Board              24E- Trailer MTD-Arrow Panel Electric       Utilities
 7706   1996     na           Sauber Reel Cable Trailer        26- One Axle Trailer                        Utilities
 7710   1967     na             Stanford Utility Trailer       26- One Axle Trailer                        Utilities
 8390   1999     na            NPK Hydraulic Hammer            99- Attachments                             Utilities
 8391   1999     na            NPK Hydraulic Hammer            99- Attachments                             Utilities




                                                      14
Re_Vehicle Replacement List_FY_2022
 Unit   Year   Mileage                         Model                            Class                      Dept
 2301   2007   33,364    Honda Civic Sedan CNG              01-Subcompact Sedan CNG                        Parks
 2380   2001   58943     Ford F-250 P/U                     05-Truck/Vans< 11K GVWR                        Parks
 2382   2001   65448     Ford F-150 P/U                     05-Truck/Vans<6-11K                            Parks
 2486   1996     n/a     Turf Sweeper                       N/A Turf Sweeper                               Parks
 2737   1997     n/a     Befco Flex-Wing Mower              99- Attachments                                Parks
 3516   2001   51,059    Freightlner F70 Aerial             11- 26,001K BIT Aerial Inspection Diggers       PW
 3517   2001   48,358    Freightlner F70 Aerial             11- 26,001K BIT Aerial Inspection Diggers       PW
 3521   2001   43,285    Ford F-550                         06- Trucks 11-15K GVWR                          PW
 3730   1997   79,133    Ford E-350 Cargo Van               05C-Truck/Van 6-11K CNG                         PW
 5146   2017    200      Ford Interceptor                   03- PD Marked All                               PD
 5149   2017    4,275    Ford Interceptor                   03- PD Marked All                               PD
 5150   2017    2,358    Ford Interceptor                   03- PD Marked All                               PD
 5151   2017    4,210    Ford Interceptor                   03- PD Marked All                               PD
 5152   2017    1,335    Ford Interceptor                   03- PD Marked All                               PD
 5240   2017    2,385    Ford Interceptor                   03- PD Marked All                               PD
 5243   2017    3,094    Ford Interceptor                   03- PD Marked All                               PD
 5450   2006   72,956    Toyota Camry Sedan                 02- Police Unmarked                             PD
 5752   2007   26,486    Honda Civic Sedan CNG              01-Subcompact Sedan CNG                         PD
 6003   2012   49,467    Honda Civic Sedan CNG              01-Subcompact Sedan CNG                         Fire
 6242   2001     n/a     Magnum Trailer                     26- One Axle Trailer                            Fire
 6453   2007   18992     Honda Civic Sedan CNG              01-Subcompact Sedan CNG                         Fire
 7163   2007   36,571    Honda Civic Sedan                  01-Subcompact Sedan                         Utilities Pool

 7204   2007   25,364    Honda Civic Sedan                  01-Subcompact Sedan                         Utilities Pool

 4250   2006   34182     Ford Escape Hybrid                 01H-Automobiles Hybrid                        Refuse
 4982   1993   26514     GMC C3500HD HD Truck               05-Truck/Vans<6-11K                             PW
 4984   1997   38411     GMC C3500HD HD Truck               05-Truck/Vans<6-11K                             PW
 6217   2007     n/a     Wells Cargo Trailer                27-2 Axle Trailer                               Fire
 7152   2007   13842     Honda Civic Sedan CNG              01-Subcompact Sedan CNG                     Utilities Pool

 7283   2011   30,422    Ford F-250 P/U                     05-Truck/Vans< 11K GVWR                     Utilities
 7591   2001   40,635    Ford Ranger P/U                    04-Compact Truck/Van                        Utilities
 7603   2005    7,643    Peterbilt335 Digger Derrick        11- 26,001K BIT Aerial Inspection Diggers   Utilities
 7735   2002   45,500    Ford F-250 P/U                     05-Truck/Vans<6-11K                         Utilities
 7820   2000   41,655    Ford Ranger P/U                    04-Compact Truck/Van                        Utilities
 8230   2000   49,250    Ford F-450 HD Truck                06F-15,000K GVWR                            Utilities
 8721   2010   39,838    Ford F-150 P/U                     05-Truck/Vans<6-11K                         Utilities
 8753   2007     n/a     Wells Cargo Trailer                27-2 Axle Trailer                           Utilities
 8792   2007   23,854    Freightlnr M2-106                  08X - Trucks >26,001K                       Utilities




                                                       15
Vehicle Replacement List_FY_2023
 Unit   Year   Mileage/Hrs                Model                                         Class    Dept
 1244   2005     2255hr        Clark TMX 25 Electric Forklift   20E-Forklift Electric             ASD
 2769   1997       n/a             Jacobsen Tilt Trailer        26- One Axle Trailer             Parks
 3143   2008     23,707      Peterbilt 12-14 Yard Dump Truck    08X - Dumps >26,001K              PW
 3232   2006     746hr       Wirtgen Pavement Milling Machine   17- Large Construction            PW
 3715   2006     42,266          Ford Freestar Cargo Van        04-Compact Truck/Van              PW
 5200   2017       0                 Ford Interceptor           03- PD Marked All                 PD
 5206   2017       0                 Ford Interceptor           03- PD Marked All                 PD
 5207   2017       0                 Ford Interceptor           03- PD Marked All                 PD
 5208   2017       0                 Ford Interceptor           03- PD Marked All                 PD
 5300   2017       0                 Ford Interceptor           03- PD Marked All                 PD
 5301   2017       0                 Ford Interceptor           03- PD Marked All                 PD
 5302   2017       0                 Ford Interceptor           03- PD Marked All                 PD
 5563   2005     45,359              BMW Motorcycle             30-Motorcycle                     PD
 5565   2006     43,484              BMW Motorcycle             30-Motorcycle                     PD
 6050   2016     24,531        Chevrolet G4500 Ambulance        12- Ambulance                     Fire
 6051   2016     32,160        Chevrolet G4500 Ambulance        12- Ambulance                     Fire
 6121   2010     22,608              Wildland Pumper            13S-Fire Truck Seasonal           Fire
 6540   1999       n/a                 Cargo Trailer            26- One Axle Trailer              Fire
 6541   1999       n/a                 Cargo Trailer            26- One Axle Trailer              Fire
 6542   1999       n/a                 Cargo Trailer            26- One Axle Trailer              Fire
 6543   1999       n/a                 Cargo Trailer            26- One Axle Trailer              Fire
 6544   1999       n/a                 Cargo Trailer            26- One Axle Trailer              Fire
 7249   2008     23,213      Peterbilt 10-12 Yard Dump Truck    08X - Dumps >26,001K            Utilities
 7281   2003     54,880         Chevrolet Astro Cargo Van       04-Compact Truck/Van            Utilities
 7520   2003     82,891          Ford Ranger Ext Cab P/U        04-Compact Truck/Van            Utilities
 7521   2003     42,378          Ford Ranger Ext Cab P/U        04-Compact Truck/Van            Utilities
 8296   2003     49,072          GMC 6-Yard Dump Truck          08X - Dumps >26,001K            Utilities
 8384   1996     97,444           Ford F-250 P/U W/U/B          05-Truck/Vans< 11K GVWR         Utilities
 8392   1999       n/a                NPK Hammer                99- Attachments                 Utilities
 8818   1998     1661hr            Towable Light Tower          23D-Small Construction          Utilities




                                                        16
                                                                   ATTACHMENT C
                                                      CAPITAL BUDGET REAPPROPRIATIONS
                                                                                                                                          FY 2019 Revised
                                                                                        FY 2019 Funding:                                 Funding: Proposed
                                                                                        Proposed Capital         FY 2019 Funding           Capital Budget
  Project ID                                       Project Title                        Budget Document            Adjustment                Document


Capital Improvement Fund
PD-14000        Internal Alarm System Replacement                                   $              78,000    $             (43,500) $                34,500
PE-15020        Civic Center Waterproofing Study and Repairs                        $                      - $             455,000 $                455,000
PE-17008        City Hall Floor 4 Remodel                                           $            1,039,099 $               445,000 $              1,484,099
PE-18000        New California Avenue Area Parking Garage                           $           45,278,537 $              (375,000) $            44,903,537
PF-18000        Parking Lot J Elevator Modernization                                $             700,000 $               (700,000) $                        -
PL-00026        Safe Routes to School                                               $             128,354 $                121,000 $                249,354
PL-04010        Bicycleand Pedestrian Plan Implementation Project                   $            2,261,921 $             2,000,000 $              4,261,921
PL-05030        Traffic Signal and Intelligent Transportation System                $            1,088,219 $               200,000 $              1,288,219
PL-14000        Churchill Avenue Enhanced Bikeway                                   $                      - $             750,000 $                750,000
PL-15001        Embarcadero Road at El Camino Real Improvements                     $            1,229,966 $             4,480,000 $              5,709,966
                Downtown Automated Parking Guidance Systems, Access Controls, and
PL-15002        Revenue Collection Equipment                                        $            1,227,734 $                64,000   $            1,291,734
PL-15003        Residential Preferential Parking                                    $             111,612 $                 54,000   $              165,612
PL-16000        Quarry Road Improvements                                            $                      - $             110,000 $                110,000
                Total Capital Improvement Fund                                      $          53,143,442    $           7,560,500 $             60,703,942


Cubberley Infrastructure Fund
CB-16002        Cubberley Roof Replacement                                          $             700,711 $               (220,000) $               480,711
CB-17001        Cubberley Repairs                                                   $             458,999 $               (150,000) $               308,999
                Total Cubberley Infrastructure Fund                                 $            1,159,710 $              (370,000) $               789,710


Electric Fund
EL-04012        Utility Site Security Improvements                                  $              50,000    $              60,000   $              110,000
EL-10006        Rebuild Underground District 24                                     $                      - $             585,000 $                585,000
EL-11003        Rebuild Underground District 15                                     $             380,000 $                 95,000   $              475,000
EL-11008        Rebuild Underground District 19                                     $                      - $             115,000 $                115,000
EL-11010        Underground District 47-Middlefield, Homer, Webster, Addison        $                      - $             500,000 $                500,000
EL-12001        Underground District 46 - Charleston/El Camino Real                 $             600,000 $                785,000 $              1,385,000
EL-13002        Relocate Quarry/Hopkins Substation 60Kv Lin (A&B)                   $             100,000 $               (100,000) $                        -
EL-13007        Underground Distribution System Security                            $             300,000 $                300,000 $                600,000
EL-13008        Upgrade Electric Estimating System                                  $                      - $              75,000   $               75,000
EL-14000        Coleridge/Cowper/Tennyson 4/12Kv Conversion                         $             470,000 $                 50,000   $              520,000
EL-14004        Maybell 1&2 4/12kV Conversion                                       $                      - $              50,000   $               50,000
EL-14005        Reconfigure Quarry Feeders                                          $             506,616 $                 75,000   $              581,616
EL-16000        Rebuild Underground District 26                                     $              50,000    $              99,000   $              149,000
EL-16001        Underground System Rebuild                                          $              50,000    $             245,000 $                295,000
EL-16003        Substation Security                                                 $             500,000 $               (200,000) $               300,000
EL-17000        Rebuild Underground District 23                                     $             150,000 $                 50,000   $              200,000
EL-17001        East Meadows Circles 4/12Kv Conversion                              $                      - $              48,000   $               48,000
EL-17003        VA Hospital Customer Load Requirements                              $             600,000 $                100,000 $                700,000
EL-17005        HCB Pilot Wire Relay Replacement                                    $             167,000 $                185,000 $                352,000
EL-17007        Facility Relocation for Caltrain Modernization Project              $            2,600,000 $               385,000 $              2,985,000
                Total Electric Fund                                                 $            6,523,616 $             3,502,000 $             10,025,616




                                                                               17
                                                 CAPITAL BUDGET REAPPROPRIATIONS
                                                                                                                                           FY 2019 Revised
                                                                                         FY 2019 Funding:                                 Funding: Proposed
                                                                                         Proposed Capital         FY 2019 Funding           Capital Budget
  Project ID                                  Project Title                              Budget Document            Adjustment                Document


Gas Fund
GS-13002       Gas Equipment and Tools                                               $             400,000 $                150,000 $                550,000
               Total Gas Fund                                                        $             400,000 $                150,000 $                550,000



Technology Fund
TE-09000       Public Safety Computer-Aided Dispatch Replacement                     $             208,000 $                200,000 $                408,000
               Total Technology Fund                                                 $             208,000 $                200,000 $                408,000



Vehicle Replacement Fund
VR-17000       Scheduled Vehicle and Equipment Replacement - Fiscal Year 2017        $            1,206,031 $              (565,000) $               641,031
               Total Vehicle Replacement Fund                                        $            1,206,031 $              (565,000) $               641,031



Wastewater Treatment Fund
WQ-19002       Plant Repair, Retrofit, and Equipment Replacement                     $            4,272,232 $              (362,000) $             3,910,232
               Total Wastewater Treatment Fund                                       $            4,272,232 $              (362,000) $             3,910,232



Water Fund
WS-07000       Water Regulation Station Improvements                                 $                      - $             345,000 $                345,000
WS-08001       Water Reservoir Coating Improvements                                  $                      - $             330,000 $                330,000
WS-11003       Water Distribution System Improvements                                $             354,000 $                146,000 $                500,000
WS-13001       Water Main Replacement - Project 27                                   $            7,025,000 $               150,000 $              7,175,000
               Total Water Fund                                                      $            7,379,000 $               971,000 $              8,350,000


GRAND TOTAL                                                                          $          74,292,031    $          11,086,500   $           85,378,531




                                                                                18
