            DOCUMENTS IN THIS PACKET INCLUDE:


                LETTERS FROM CITIZENS TO THE
                   MAYOR OR CITY COUNCIL


    RESPONSES FROM STAFF TO LETTERS FROM CITIZENS


        ITEMS FROM MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS


      ITEMS FROM OTHER COMMITTEES AND AGENCIES


ITEMS FROM CITY, COUNTY, STATE, AND REGIONAL AGENCIES




        Prepared for:            4/2/2018
       Document dates: 3/14/2018 – 3/21/2018

                                Set 1 of 2
 Note: Documents for every category may not have been received for packet
                      reproduction in a given week.




                                                                      701-32
                                                                               COUNCIL MEETING
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 10:17 AM
                                                                                        03/19/2018            14
                                                                                ✔
                                                                                    Received Before Meeting
Carnahan, David

From:                           Annette Fazzino <annette.fazzino@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Monday, March 19, 2018 8:41 AM
To:                             Council, City; Clerk, City
Cc:                             Jeanne Fleming
Subject:                        Vote "NO" on changes to wireless ordinance



Dear Honorable Mayor Kniss and Members of the City Council:

As you know from previous emails to you, I am vehemently opposed to the aesthetically ugly, noisy, radiation-
emitting cell towers in our neighborhoods. However, here we are, months in to this debate and I am left
scratching my head. Why isn't the city staff opposed? Why are they doing so much to skirt this issue? If I were a
conspiracy theorist, I would greatly suspect that someone (or several people) are manipulating this for
his/her/their own agenda. I am not that conspiracy theorist quite yet.

And yet...why is Staff attempting to change the wireless ordinance so that an ARB hearing would not be
required to review and approve/deny the cell towers? In just 2015, the City Attorney said that the current
ordinance would require ARB review. Hmmm. This doesn't pass the "smell test" when Staff knows that so very
many of us oppose these towers.

Palo Alto has a history of leadership. But right now, so many other communities are taking the lead--rejecting
these types of towers in their neighborhoods. Fremont, Hillsborough, and Santa Rosa are now added to the list.
Why aren't we ahead of this? Is someone/some people receiving some sort of benefit from littering our
residential neighborhoods with the towers?

Please, council. Vote "NO" on the changes that Staff is seeking to make in the City's wireless ordinance. It is
the right thing to do.

Yours truly,

Annette Evans Fazzino




                                                        2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 10:17 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Jerry Fan <jerry.fan@gmail.com>
Sent:                             Saturday, March 17, 2018 12:38 AM
To:                               Council, City
Cc:                               Clerk, City; Architectural Review Board
Subject:                          Please vote against the changes City Staff want to make in Palo Alto’s Wireless
                                  ordinance



To our City Council,

When I sat in the City Council meeting last week, and waited patiently to voice my protest - it wasn't b/c I had
nothing better to do on a Monday night. I feel really strongly, that despite staff's explanation that the changes is
to somehow clarify current process makes no logical sense. The current ARB review process is working, that's
how I'm able to learn about Verizon's plans. Why fix something when it's not broken? The timing is also very
suspicious, b/c while cluster 1's proposal may not be effected - there are other clusters that will come up for
review by ARB and there's no guarantee that the changes won't effect those. And what about additional
proposals from other telco companies like AT&T/T-Mobile/Sprint?

Please vote against the changes City Staff want to make in Palo Alto’s Wireless ordinance.

Thx,
Jerry Fan




                                                            3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 10:17 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                Gitelman, Hillary
Sent:                                Thursday, March 15, 2018 2:51 PM
To:                                  Miriam Sedman; Council, City
Cc:                                  Clerk, City; Architectural Review Board
Subject:                             RE: Don't change the existing Wireless ordinance


Ms. Sedman,

Thanks for providing this comment regarding the item on Monday’s City Council agenda. In advance of the meeting, I
wanted to clarify the proposed ordinance and correct what is clearly a misunderstanding about its intent and
effect. Here are some quick points of clarification – we can offer more at Monday’s meeting:

         The City’s 2015 wireless ordinance (adopted to ensure the City can comply with a federal ruling concerning
          processing time limits for these applications) established three tiers of projects and gave the Director of
          Planning and Community Environment (the “Director”) decision making authority, subject to appeal to the City
          Council. The ordinance requires that Tier 3 projects conform with Architectural Review and Conditional Use
          Permit (CUP) findings. In Palo Alto, these findings are made by the Director, often but not always with the
          advice of the Architectural Review Board (ARB) and/or the Planning & Transportation Commission (PTC). The
          2015 ordinance did not explicitly provide for review by the ARB or the PTC before the Director’s decision.

         Since 2015, the City has asserted (to Verizon and other applicants) that the Director has the authority to consult
          with the ARB and/or the PTC via a public hearing process even though this is not explicit in the code. The
          ordinance proposed on Monday would make this explicit. The proposed ordinance would not change the
          findings that need to be made or the City’s current practice (of involving the ARB).

         The 2015 ordinance provides two possible routes for appeal of the Director’s decision on these types of
          applications: one that goes to the ARB and then the Council, and one that goes to the PTC and then the
          Council. The ordinance proposed on Monday would simplify the appeal process by routing the Director’s
          decision straight to the City Council on appeal. Staff strongly recommends this process to make sure we can
          meet the federally imposed time limits.

I hope this short explanation is helpful. To reiterate, we are not proposing any change to the findings, we are seeking to
affirm the ARB/PTC role in the process, and we hope to elevate appeals directly to the City Council.

Regards,

Hillary



               Hillary Gitelman | Planning Director | P&CE Department
               250 Hamilton Avenue | Palo Alto, CA 94301
               T: 650.329.2321 |E: hillary.gitelman@cityofpaloalto.org

               Please think of the environment before printing this email – Thank you!




                                                                 4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 10:17 AM


From: Miriam Sedman [mailto:msedman@pacbell.net]
Sent: Monday, March 12, 2018 10:45 PM
To: Council, City
Cc: Clerk, City; Architectural Review Board
Subject: Don't change the existing Wireless ordinance

Dear City Council Members,

I urge you, on behalf of Palo Alto residents, to vote against changing the Wireless ordinance. As the City
Attorney wrote to City Council in her 4/29/15 report regarding what is now the existing ordinance, this
ordinance requires—and “require” is her word—that no new or collocated cell towers may be installed in Palo
Alto without both an architectural review and conditional use permit findings. Yet now Senior Staff are
recommending you allow the Director of Planning, if she so chooses, to bypass ARB and PTC review of these
cell towers.

The fact is, now more than ever, both an architectural review and conditional use permit findings are necessary
to protect residents. On a case-by-case basis it is absolutely necessary for the city to review requests to place
cell phone towers in residential neighborhoods.

For example, a sign proposing a Verizon cell phone tower has appeared in the Triple El neighborhood and it
makes no sense to install a cell phone tower in this neighborhood for the following reasons.
·    The proposed location is central to homes where children, elderly and retirees are at home 24 hours a day
and will be exposed to high levels of radiation (lots of data on this!)
·    Verizon is optimizing their plan for ease of access and NOT to minimize exposure of radiation to citizens
(This is just wrong).
·   Our neighborhood has good Verizon coverage right now. Even the Verizon maps show that we are in
good shape.
·    The houses in the triple El neighborhood that have poles and wires already bear the burden of additional
radiation and maintenance for the neighborhood; let alone that the poles and wires are unsightly. Why penalize
the same homeowners for phones?
·    There are just a whole lot better places to put these poles e.g. NOT in the middle of densely populated
neighborhoods.

It is essential that you continue to protect the safety of Palo Alto residents and push back on utility companies
who’s primary concern is profit and who are not concerned with public safety or neighborhood well being.

Regards,
Miriam Sedman
915 Elsinore Dr.
Palo Alto, CA 94303




                                                         5
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 10:17 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Sherryl Casella <orioness@hotmail.com>
Sent:                         Thursday, March 15, 2018 11:46 AM
To:                           Council, City
Subject:                      Don't let cell companies get away with ugly boxes in our neighborhoods



Please help preserve this lovely city!

Now we hear that the Planning Department and the City Attorney are seeking changes to Palo Alto’s
Wireless ordinance, making it easier for them to build these ugly, intrusive boxes ABOVE GROUND.

Please vote against changing the ordinance.

Sincerely,
Sherryl Casella




                                                      6
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 4:21 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                               Tina Chow <chow_tina@yahoo.com>
Sent:                               Monday, March 19, 2018 11:16 AM
To:                                 Filseth, Eric (external)
Cc:                                 Council, City
Subject:                            Re: Don't change the existing Wireless ordinance



Hi Eric,

Yes, I have. It doesn’t make sense to me to allow the Director to have the option to bypass ARB and PTC
review of these cell towers. The wireless companies are bombarding the city with poorly thought-out proposals
and if anything, we need to have _more_ careful review and planning. Many other California cities are passing
stricter ordinances for wireless installations and we should be just as careful. The City of Palo Alto owes it to its
residents to maintain neighbhorhoods which meet noise, aesthetic, and health/safety standards and to maintain
the property value of homes.

Thank you for considering this.

-Tina Chow
Barron Park resident
Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, UC Berkeley

       On Mar 19, 2018, at 8:58 AM, efilseth@gmail.com wrote:

       Hi Tina,

       Thank you for your email. May I ask if you have read the ordinance yourself?


       Rgeards, Eric


       Sent from my BlackBerry 10 smartphone.

           From: Tina Chow
           Sent: Monday, March 19, 2018 8:44 AM
           To: City.Council@cityofpaloalto.org
           Subject: Don't change the existing Wireless ordinance

       Dear City Council,

       I strongly urge you to vote against changing the wireless ordinance in Palo Alto. We're
       counting on you to protect the residents of Palo Alto against the invasion of
       unnecessarily ugly, noisy, bulky and hazardous cell towers that Verizon and others are
       currently proposing.

       Thank you,
                                                             1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 4:21 PM
       Tina Chow
       (Barron Park)




                                                     2
                                                                      COUNCIL MEETING
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/16/2018 1:42 PM
                                                                      ✔
                                                                              03/19/2018
                                                                          Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                       5 8 9
Carnahan, David

From:                               Ng, Judy
Sent:                               Friday, March 16, 2018 1:34 PM
To:                                 Council Members; ORG - Clerk's Office; Council Agenda Email
Cc:                                 Keene, James; Shikada, Ed; De Geus, Robert; Flaherty, Michelle; Nickel, Eric; Capriles,
                                    Catherine; Blackshire, Geoffrey; Cullen, Charles; McNally, Kevin; Ngo, Mai; Marshall,
                                    Tomm; Batchelor, Dean; Ting, Tom; Lloyd, Debra
Subject:                            3/19 Council Agenda Questions for Items 5, 8, & 9




 Dear Mayor and Council Members:

 On behalf of City Manager Jim Keene, please find below in bold staff responses to inquiries
 made by Council Member Tanaka in regard to the March 19, 2018 council meeting agenda.

 Item 5: Fire Station Alerting System ‐ CM Tanaka
 Item 8: Approval of a Gas Surveying Contract for $437,710 with Manesco Corporation ‐ CM
 Tanaka
 Item 9: Approval of a Utilities Electric Fund Contract (UUD#46) ‐ CM Tanaka


 Item 5: Fire Station Alerting System

           Q. 1. Will this system actually reduce response time if implicated instead of the
           current system, as response times in Palo Alto are already low?

           A. 1. As noted in the Staff Report, the components that were quoted in the
           contract, will allow the firefighters to respond faster than they do with the
           current system. The initial station alert is sent automatically when the dispatcher
           receives the 9‐1‐1 call. The dispatcher then can focus on gathering pertinent
           information related to the call instead of taking a break to alert the responders
           themselves. The USDD system will interface with the Department’s radio alerting
           system to enable simultaneous automated voice alerts without dispatcher
           intervention.

           USDD has also developed the first and only smartphone/mobile station alerting
           app directly tied to the System, and sends simultaneous alerts, such as dispatch
           announcements, administrative alerts, IT support notifications and application
           update notifications, to personnel. The mobile alerts play the same tones as
           those in the station, show incident location using the device’s built‐in mapping
           capabilities and enable users to save notifications for future reference and search
           for previous notifications. USDD’s app provides fire agencies with a dependable
           means of redundant notification.


                                                              1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/16/2018 1:42 PM
        While the Department’s response times meet performance benchmarks, we strive
        for continuous improvement to better serve the community.


        Q. 2. What is the average turnout time before and after (not a percentage) in
        Santa Clara’s fire department?

        A. 2. In a one‐year comparison of turnout times with the old system and new
        system, the Santa Clara County Fire Department (SCCFD) reduced their average
        turnout time by 9 seconds (1 minute, 30 seconds to 1 minute, 21 seconds). In the
        first two months of 2018, the time reduction increased to 12 seconds (1 minute,
        30 seconds to 1 minute, 18 seconds).

        Q. 3. What is the estimate (an absolute time, not a percentage) for reduction in
        turnout time if this system is implemented in Palo Alto?

        A. 3. As noted in the Staff Report, SCCFD has seen a nearly 20 percent reduction
        in turnout times. Other agencies using the USDD System note similar reductions.
        We would estimate the same reduction.


        Q. 4. Why wasn’t there an open bidding process for this? Were other systems
        considered? What were their costs?

        A. 4. As noted in the Staff Report, after meeting with SCCFD, and reviewing their
        RFP process, including the other bidders, it was apparent that USDD was the most
        affordable system and the most technologically advanced system. In our goal of
        regionalizing emergency response functions other systems were not considered.
        All City of Palo Alto Procurement Policies were followed, and this bid has been
        reviewed for compliance by the City Attorney’s Office.

        Q. 5. What are the problems with the current system? Does the current system
        still meet government standards?

        A. 5. The current system is an outdated analog system made of basic copper
        wiring and is nearly impossible to move due to the infrastructure and the cost.
        The USDD system is an Internet Protocol (IP) based system. This means that the
        system talks to the server over the City’s IT network, is easy to maintain and move
        components.

        The current analog system lacks redundancy. When the system goes down, the
        Fire Dispatchers have to call the crews on the phone. The problem with calling
        crews for station alerting is that there are no pre‐tones to give the crews an early
        notification on the type of emergency or its location. The USDD system has five
        redundancy systems in place if the primary station alerting system fails.

        The standards for station alerting systems are guided by the National Fire
        Protection Agency (NFPA). NFPA states that an effective system should be used to
        alert emergency responders, however, the current system lacks redundancy, and
        therefore, the current system falls short of the standard.


                                                           2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/16/2018 1:42 PM

         Q. 6. How does cooperative purchasing work? Does each city get a discount
         individually?

         A. 6. As noted in the Staff Report, cooperative purchasing allows the Fire
         Departments access through publicly solicited contracts from vendors who supply
         goods and services to other fire departments. Contracts are created through a
         public RFP process by a “Lead” public agency that allows members to “piggy back”
         on the contract, eliminating the need to complete their own RFP process. The
         most recent joint fire truck purchase with Mountain View Fire Department, as
         well as several of the Fire apparatus, were acquired through cooperative
         purchasing. The discount applies to each agency that is eligible.

         SCCFD spent over 6 months, and hundreds of hours, to complete the RFP process,
         in which the City of Palo Alto did not have to invest.


         Q. 7. How much did the current system cost?

         A. 7. The current Zetron Station Alerting system was purchased in 2003 for
         $131,716 and is at end of life. The annual maintenance cost for the system is
         $14,000.



 Item 8: Approval of a Gas Surveying Contract for $437,710 with Manesco Corporation

         Q. 1. How much did the contract cost last time compared to this time? I would
         recommend that we always include the previous cost in the report summary to
         make the comparison with the current bid amounts easier.

         A. 1. The cost last time the contract was issued was $84,000 for the walking and
         mobile survey, and the current amount for the same services is $85,750. As general
         information on this contract, the work specified is required by DOT regulations with
         specific time lines that must be met per our Operations and Maintenance Manual
         and DOT regulations. The work was bid as a Request for Quote requiring the award
         to go to the lowest qualified bidder for the work.


 Item 9: Approval of a Utilities Electric Fund Contract (UUD#46)

         Q. 1. Is there a plan to underground utilities in any other part of town?

         A. 1. Yes, currently there are two other underground districts identified in the 5‐
         year CIP plan as part of the City’s ongoing underground conversion
         program. Neighborhoods citywide are interested in undergrounding; the pace of
         implementation depends on funding available.


         Q. 2. Why was the engineer’s original estimate 33% off for the first phase, going

                                                            3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/16/2018 1:42 PM
        from $866,875 to $1,341,400? Does that mean that, if this trend continues, the cost
        of the project will be an extra $1 million on top of the original estimate of
        $3,500,000? How will the city pay for the project if the estimates for the other
        phases of the project are off as well?

        A. 2. The engineer's base estimate of $866,875 was based on construction costs
        for similar work performed for construction of Utility Underground District 47
        completed in 2015. Due to market conditions and significant corporate
        construction in the Bay Area, we have experienced large (30+%) increase in
        construction costs in the past few years. We do not get as many bidders because
        some contractors have chosen not to participate in the bidding process for
        projects such as this undergrounding project, so the bidding process is not as
        competitive, and we are getting significantly higher bids from the few that do bid
        reflecting the current industry economics.

        $3,5000,000 was not the original estimate, it is the revised total project estimate
        given current construction costs, it is our best estimate at this time and may go up
        or down depending on the economy.

        Funding for the utility share of the project costs is allocated from electric
        revenues, the increase from the original estimates has drawn from the CIP
        reserves. Increased costs affect the timing of implementing future underground
        districts.


        Q. 3. What effect will this project have on residents living around the construction
        area? Will it affect their ability to use utilities in any way?

        A. 3. Resident services are not affected by construction. Overhead facilities will
        stay in place to provide customers with their electric and telecom services until
        the underground structures have been completed, at which point customers will
        arrange for installation of their underground service connections and will be
        connected to the undergrounded system. Not until then will overhead facilities
        be removed.


Thank you,
Judy Ng


             Judy Ng
             City Manager’s Office|Administrative Associate III
             250 Hamilton Avenue | Palo Alto, CA 94301
             Phone: (650) 329‐2354
             Email: Judy.Ng@CityofPaloAlto.org




                                                                  4
                                                                                       FCM       MEETING
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 9:45 AM
                                                                                  ✔
                                                                                          03/20/2018
                                                                                      Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                                1
Carnahan, David

From:                            Sonya Bradski <sonyangary@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Thursday, March 15, 2018 12:49 PM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         Request Your Continued Financial Support on Palo Alto Biking Projects



Dear Palo Alto City Council:

Thank you for your previous support on the Charleston-Arastradero Plan Neighborhood Traffic Safety
Bike/Pedestrian Plan and bike bridge projects.
Palo Alto’s new Comprehensive Plan emphasizes sustainable transportation choices and safe streets for all
users. But as the city grapples with a $58 million dollar shortfall in its Infrastructure Budget, funding for already
approved projects prioritized in the city’s Bicycle & Pedestrian Transportation Plan are at risk. I am writing to
ask you to join me in supporting core projects in the Infrastructure Plan Budget that are designed to
address multi-modal commutes city-wide:
* Charleston/Arastradero Corridor
Plan https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/gov/depts/pwd/infrastructure_plan/charleston_arastradero.asp
* Phase 2 of the Neighborhood Traffic Safety Bike/Pedestrian Plan Projects: Bryant St Extension, Maybell
Ave, Stanford Ave, Park Blvd, andWilkie
Way. https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/news/displaynews.asp?NewsID=4138
* Hwy 101/Adobe Creek Bicycle/Pedestrian
Bridge https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/gov/depts/pwd/infrastructure_plan/hwy_101_ped_bike_bridge.asp
These three Infrastructure Plan projects work together to create a street network with a place on the road for
everyone who bikes, walks, rides transit and drives -- enabling efficiency and greater safety for all people on the
road.

Please fund the implementation of these three long-awaited 2012 Bicycle & Pedestrian Transportation Plan
projects.

Please consider how each Infrastructure project aligns with recently approved goals, policies and programs of
the 2012 Bicycle & Pedestrian Transportation Plan, the 2017 Comprehensive Plan Transportation Element and
the 2017 Sustainability & Climate Change Action Plan which prioritize safety, sustainability and healthy, active
alternatives to driving solo.

Please prioritize safety for all road users on our city-wide transportation system.

Our family bikes all over Palo Alto everyday and need to Palo Alto to be as bike friendly as possible.

Please DO NOT build extra parking in Palo Alto when we have autonomous robotic cars being implemented
and everyone using Uber & Lyft. Everyone needs to walk and or get on their bikes to reduce traffic and help
keep everyone fit!!!

Please continue to prioritize all these bike projects financially.

Thank you for your time and consideration.
                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 9:45 AM

Sincerely,

Sonya Bradski
4082 Nelson Dr.
Palo Alto, CA 94306




                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 9:47 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Walt and Kay Hays <wkhays@igc.org>
Sent:                              Thursday, March 15, 2018 4:18 PM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           Priorities in the Infrastructure Plan Budget


Dear Council:

I am writing to urge you (first the Finance Committee and then the whole Council) to fully fund the following projects:
        • The Charleston/Arastradero Corridor Plan
        • Phase Two of the Neighborhood Traffic Safety and Bike/Pedestrian Plan Project
        • The Adobe Creek Bicycle/Pedestrian Bridge over Highway 101

I recognize that you face the difficult task of dealing with a $58 million shortfall. Even in that context, however, safe
transportation measures, including options that encourage pedestrians and bikers, deserve a high priority. You have so
indicated in the following adopted policies, and now is the time to give them meaning:
        The 2012 Bicycle and Pedestrian Transportation Plan
        The 2017 Comprehensive Plan
        the 2017 Sustainability and Climate Action Plan

Thank you.

Walt Hays
Chair, Sustainable SchoolsCommittee




                                                             1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 9:47 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Sigrid K Pinsky <Sigridkp@yahoo.com>
Sent:                              Thursday, March 15, 2018 4:37 PM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           Gunn High School PTSA 2018 Letter of Support for the Charleston - Arastradero
                                   Project
Attachments:                       Gunn PTSA Signal support 2017.pdf; Gunn PTSA letter 2015 re C-A Corridor.pdf




       Dear Council Members,

       Please find attached three letters of support from Gunn High School PTSA. The first is from March 2018, the second
       is from 2017 and the third is from 2015.

       Thank you,
       Sigrid K Pinsky
       Gunn High School PTSA President


       Sent from my iPhone




                                                               1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 9:56 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                            nodiamonds@gmail.com on behalf of philippe@nodiamonds.com
Sent:                            Thursday, March 15, 2018 8:04 PM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         Request Your Continued Financial Support on Palo Alto Biking Projects



I concur with Palo Alto resident Sonya Bradski's ideas:

Dear Palo Alto City Council:



Thank you for your previous support on the Charleston-Arastradero Plan Neighborhood Traffic Safety
Bike/Pedestrian Plan and bike bridge projects.



Palo Alto’s new Comprehensive Plan emphasizes sustainable transportation choices and safe streets for all
users. But as the city grapples with a $58 million dollar shortfall in its Infrastructure Budget, funding for already
approved projects prioritized in the city’s Bicycle & Pedestrian Transportation Plan are at risk. I am writing to
ask you to join me in supporting core projects in the Infrastructure Plan Budget that are designed to address
multi-modal commutes city-wide:



* Charleston/Arastradero Corridor Plan
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/gov/depts/pwd/infrastructure_plan/charleston_arastradero.asp

* Phase 2 of the Neighborhood Traffic Safety Bike/Pedestrian Plan Projects: Bryant St Extension, Maybell Ave,
Stanford Ave, Park Blvd, andWilkie Way.
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/news/displaynews.asp?NewsID=4138

* Hwy 101/Adobe Creek Bicycle/Pedestrian Bridge
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/gov/depts/pwd/infrastructure_plan/hwy_101_ped_bike_bridge.asp



These three Infrastructure Plan projects work together to create a street network with a place on the road for
everyone who bikes, walks, rides transit and drives -- enabling efficiency and greater safety for all people on the
road.



Please fund the implementation of these three long-awaited 2012 Bicycle & Pedestrian Transportation Plan
projects.


                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 9:56 AM

Please consider how each Infrastructure project aligns with recently approved goals, policies and programs of
the 2012 Bicycle & Pedestrian Transportation Plan, the 2017 Comprehensive Plan Transportation Element and
the 2017 Sustainability & Climate Change Action Plan which prioritize safety, sustainability and healthy, active
alternatives to driving solo.



Please prioritize safety for all road users on our city-wide transportation system.



Our family bikes all over Palo Alto everyday and need to Palo Alto to be as bike friendly as possible.



Please DO NOT build extra parking in Palo Alto when we have autonomous robotic cars being implemented
and everyone using Uber & Lyft. Everyone needs to walk and or get on their bikes to reduce traffic and help
keep everyone fit!!!



Please continue to prioritize all these bike projects financially.



Thank you for your time and consideration.



Sincerely,



Sonya Bradski

4082 Nelson Dr.

Palo Alto, CA 94306




                                                           2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 9:59 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                         William Robinson <williamrobinson@goldenworld.com>
Sent:                         Friday, March 16, 2018 12:55 PM
To:                           Council, City
Subject:                      Garages in Infrastructure Projects Jeopardize Long Held Goal




49 Year resident, William’Rob’ Robinson, member PABAC (Pedestrian and Bicycle Advisory Committee), Palo
Alto since 2005




                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 10:02 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                               Anne Schmitt <schmitta@pacbell.net>
Sent:                               Friday, March 16, 2018 8:02 PM
To:                                 Council, City
Subject:                            Please eliminate CA Ave garage from infrastructure plan.



Analysis of the Finance Committee Staff Report by Carbon Free Palo Alto

In looking at the Finance Committee Staff Report (ID #9039) on funding infrastructure needs for city projects, there is
another option that the city should be looking. In light of the recent success of the TMA progress in reducing solo car trips
and also taking into account of recent trends and changes in transportation options/choices.

The recent article in the Palo Alto Weekly (https://www.paloaltoonline.com/news/2018/03/14/palo-alto-
nonprofit-revs-up-efforts-to-reduce-traffic) shows that the TMA efforts have been successful in reducing solo car
trips downtown to such an extent that the downtown garage is not needed. This success has come about with minimal
funding with a program that is not even fully developed. As the article states the TMA would like to expand to the Cal Ave
area where currently there are similar parking and congestion problems with similar solutions that the TMA can readily
address..

This success combined with the increasing use of ridesharing programs, the electrification of CalTrain, the bike share
program (free to the city), and the eventual introduction of the automatous vehicles along with changing demographics
where people will not want even to own cars, means that the reductions of solo car use/trips would be sustained even with
the increasing growth in the Cal Ave and downtown areas.

In looking at attachment B of the Staff report, Estimated Savings From Deferring/Eliminating Projects, we see that the
elimination of the Cal Ave and downtown garages would save about $65 million. To fully fund the TMA effort over the
next ten years would cost $4.8 million. Therefore the city could save $60.2 million with a solution that would reduce
congestion & parking. This solution would also comply with the Comp and Sustainability Implementation
Plans and would not subject these areas to disruptions of building the garages.

With this savings, the rest of the budgeted infrastructure projects (Table 1), could be covered by the anticipated project
funding (Table 2) without the need for a questionable ballot measure.

This is the type of solution that is expected from the heart of Silicon Valley. It can be implemented faster then building the
garages, is flexible and scalable and will avoid building expensive garages that are likely to be obsolete in only a few years
with the changes noted above. It is less that 1/10th the cost of the garages and it also is in line with keeping the promise to
address the parking issues in the Cal Ave and downtown areas. It will preserve the other projects on the infrastructure list
which have been in the works for years.

We urge you to seriously consider this win-win solution for making sure the city can fund our needed infrastructure
projects now and in the future in a manner that is consistent with the city’s Comp and SIP goals.


Anne Schmitt



                                                               1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 10:07 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                               Trish Mulvey <mulvey@ix.netcom.com>
Sent:                               Saturday, March 17, 2018 3:08 PM
To:                                 Council, City
Subject:                            Transportation Priorities in Infrastructure Plan Budget
Attachments:                        TM_Transportation Priorities 2 031718.docx


Please see attached letter, trish




                                                              1
March 17, 2018                                                                  via electronic mail

Honorable Liz Kniss, Mayor, and
City Council Members
City of Palo Alto

RE: Transportation priorities in Infrastructure Plan Budget

Dear Mayor Kniss and City Council Members

Special thanks to those of you serving on the Finance Committee and taking on the difficult task
of reviewing the Infrastructure Plan Budget to close a $56 million dollar shortfall on March 20th.
As a resident since 1951 and a member of the Sustainable Schools Committee, I want you to
know of my strong support for fully funding the following three active transportation/complete
streets projects:
        • Charleston/Arastradero Corridor Plan
        • Phase 2 of the Neighborhood Traffic Safety and Bike/Pedestrian Plan Project
        • Adobe Creek Bicycle/Pedestrian Bridge over Hwy 101

All three projects require funding and implementation to create a strong, cohesive transportation
network that provides reliable, efficient and safe choices for all users:
    • pedestrians,
    • bicyclists, and
    • motorists
All of these projects are included in our 2012 Bicycle and Pedestrian Transportation Plan, and
align with key goals and policies from these two recently approved Council Plans:
    • 2017 Comprehensive Plan,
    • 2017 Sustainability and Climate Action Plan (SCAP).

I very much appreciate the Council’s past support of so many pedestrian, bicycle and roadway
improvements in our community, and I sincerely hope you will do so again at the Finance
Committee Meeting on March 20th. Our personal safety and kids’ school commute safety depend
on all three of these measures being full funded to create a strong intercity network of safe streets
for all.

Thanks for your consideration of this recommendation.

Sincerely,

Trish Mulvey
527 Rhodes Drive, Palo Alto
(650) 326-0252 or mulvey@ix.netcom.com

cc: Interested Parties
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 10:14 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Bret Andersen <bretande@pacbell.net>
Sent:                           Sunday, March 18, 2018 5:36 PM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        Please fund our top Bike Ped Infrastructure Projects



Dear Councilmembers,

I urge you to make it a Council priority to fund the 3 long awaited bicycle and pedestrian related projects as
listed in the March 20, City Manager letter as Council Infrastructure Plan. Our community and city has worked
hard for many years on defining these priority projects in order to move us forward toward our safe and
sustainable active transportation goals as defined in the Comprehensive Plan and SIP.

I use Palo Alto’s bikeways regularly and more so as routes and access improve around the city. As a volunteer
on the annual Bike Palo Alto event I see interest in biking in and through Palo Alto increasing every year.
Improving access to more and safer routes at the key points in the network that these 3 projects address will
induce more biking still.

These projects are also complemented by the TMA efforts in our commercial centers. The TMA is showing
strong early results in its first and only implementation on University Ave. TMAs promotes alternatives to
driving and parking. They educate workers about alternative modes including transit, car pooling, ride sharing
as well as biking and walking. People using transit need last/first mile walking or biking solutions. People
without access to a parked car during the day also need mobility options that include biking, walking, shuttles
and such when they do errands or go out for lunch. Let’s also push to expand the TMA efforts to the California
Ave commercial district to build further on our active transportation investments in that area.

Thank you for your considering these points regarding our infrastructure funding priorities.

Sincerely,

Bret Andersen, Palo Verde Neighborhood Resident




                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 10:16 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Markus Fromherz <markus@fromherz.us>
Sent:                            Monday, March 19, 2018 9:24 AM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         Support for Bicycle & Pedestrian Transportation Plans



Honored City Council Members,

I am a Barron Park resident, live on Amaranta, used to work in the research park above Foothill Expressway,
and used to drive or bike daily to work, at various times, including 7:30-8:30am and 4-6pm.

I would like to express my support for bicycle and pedestrian transportation measures currently planned for Palo
Alto. That includes the Charleston/Arastradero Corridor Plan, Phase 2 of the Neighborhood Traffic Safety
Bike/Pedestrian Plan Projects, and the Hwy 101/Adobe Creek Bicycle/Pedestrian Bridge. Each of these project
aligns with recently approved goals, policies, and programs of the 2012 Bicycle & Pedestrian Transportation
Plan, the 2017 Comprehensive Plan Transportation Element, and the 2017 Sustainability & Climate Change
Action Plan, which prioritize safety, sustainability, and healthy, active alternatives to driving solo.

In particular, I would like to express my very strong support for the Charleston/Arastradero Corridor Plan,
which is now ready for final construction. We have been working on this for many years. This project will
provide signalization and hardscape improvements that will provide better safety and operational efficiency
for motorists, bicyclists, pedestrians, and transit users. It also will create new bike lanes where there currently is
a dangerous gap in the existing bike lanes at the El Camino Real intersection.

I would like to re-iterate what I have written before. After several years, I find the restriping to be a huge
improvement without introducing any downsides:

   1. The road is more structured, with clear turn-offs along the way where cars used to block the left lane
      when turning. Compare that to a four-lane highway before, where cars dominated the road. Overall I feel
      we have achieved the compromise we need between local traffic for schools and parks, much of it bikes
      and pedestrians, and commute traffic, much of it cars.
   2. The restriping provided a number of improvements for bicyclists and pedestrians, including more room
      for bicyclists, better turn protection for bicyclists, better crossings for pedestrians, and lower car speeds.
      I have heard this confirmed from other bicyclists. The final treatment will further improve and fine-tune
      these changes.
   3. As a car driver, I find traffic from Coulombe to Gunn acceptable, given the constraints of the
      environment, such as several large schools and substantial commuter through-traffic. There always was
      a traffic jam around school start time. Traffic in the morning has further markedly improved since the
      bell changes at Gunn and Bowman. In any case, traffic is acceptable most of the day, but fortunately it
      has slowed down noticeably from the previous highway speeds.
   4. Traffic on Amaranta seems to be about the same as before. Related to that, on Coulombe in the morning
      there are never more than three cars waiting to enter Arastradero, which tells me that at least from that
      side we are not overloaded.

Overall, I feel this road has been vastly improved, and I look forward to the final treatment.

Please prioritize safety for all road users on our city-wide transportation system!
                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 10:16 AM


Sincerely,
Markus Fromherz




                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 10:16 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Gladwyn D'Souza <godsouza@mac.com>
Sent:                              Monday, March 19, 2018 9:44 AM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           let TMA work before adding parking


Dear City Council,

Please give the TMA time to work before looking at options for more parking in Palo Alto. Changes from shared mobility
to driverless cars are transforming how we use land. Please ensure that people can move in a safe healthy, and timely
manner.

In looking at the Finance Committee Staff Report (ID #9039) on funding infrastructure needs for city projects, there is
another option that the city should be looking at. In light of the recent success of the TMA progress in reducing solo car
trips and also taking into account of recent trends and changes in transportation options/choices.

The recent article in the Palo Alto Weekly (https://www.paloaltoonline.com/news/2018/03/14/palo‐alto‐nonprofit‐revs‐
up‐efforts‐to‐reduce‐traffic) shows that the TMA efforts have been successful in reducing solo car trips downtown to
such an extent that the downtown garage is not needed. This success has come about with minimal funding with a
program that is not even fully developed. As the article states the TMA would like to expand to the Cal Ave area where
currently there are similar parking and congestion problems with similar solutions that the TMA can readily address.


This success combined with the increasing use of ridesharing programs, the electrification of CalTrain, the bike share
program (free to the city), and the eventual introduction of automatous vehicles along with changing demographics
where people will not want to even own cars, means that the reductions of solo car use/trips would be sustained and
encouraged even with the increasing growth in the Cal Ave and downtown areas.


In looking at attachment B of the Staff report, Estimated Savings From Deferring/Eliminating Projects, we see that the
elimination of the Cal Ave and downtown garages would save about $65 million. To fully fund the TMA effort over the
next ten years would cost $4.8 million. Therefore the city could save $60.2 million with a solution that would reduce
congestion & parking. This solution would also comply with the Comp and Sustainability Implementation Plans and
would not subject these areas to disruptions of building the garages.


With this savings, the rest of the budgeted infrastructure projects (Table 1), could be covered by the anticipated project
funding (Table 2) without the need for a questionable ballot measure. Should additional funding be required, the city
should also look at polling that include a special assessment district, which has funded projects in the past and also a
business license tax which almost all other cities have.


This is the type of solution that is expected from the heart of Silicon Valley. It can be implemented faster then building
the garages, is flexible and scalable and will avoid building expensive garages that are likely to be obsolete in only a few
years with the changes noted above. It is less that 1/10th the cost of the garages and it also is in line with keeping the
promise to address the parking issues in the Cal Ave and downtown areas. It will preserve the other projects on the
infrastructure list which have been in the works for years.


                                                              3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 10:16 AM

We urge you to seriously consider this win‐win solution for making sure the city can fund our needed infrastructure
projects now and in the future in a manor that is consistent with the city’s Comp and SIP goals.

Sincerely,
Gladwyn d’Souza
chair, Transportation Committee,
Loma Prieta Chapter Sierra Club.
https://www.sierraclub.org/loma‐prieta
650‐804‐8225




                                                           4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 3:25 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Clara Chang <clarac@abcandm.com>
Sent:                         Monday, March 19, 2018 3:23 PM
To:                           Council, City
Cc:                           ben@bikesiliconvalley.org; Pat Burt; Clara CHANG
Subject:                      3/20 Palo Alto Finance Meeting



I understand that the Palo Alto Finance Committee will be meeting tomorrow to discuss
options for reigning in the $56 million deficit to fund infrastructure projects. I am writing
to ask you not to remove the three projects on the Council Infrastructure Plan that
improve our roadway system for cyclist and pedestrians, specifically implementation of
the Bicycle & Pedestrian Plan, Charleston/Arastradero Corridor improvements, and the
Highway 101 Pedestrian/Bicycle Bridge.

In brief, I have been a resident of Palo Alto since 1991. I moved to the University South
neighborhood so that I could raise my family in a pedestrian and bike-friendly
community. In 2013, I started working at VMware and began commuting by bike. In
addition, I regularly use bike routes through Palo Alto if I need to run errands in
Mountain View or further south on the weekends.

My main reason for cycling is to stay out of car traffic on local roads and to avoid
parking anywhere near downtown. I find that cycling instead of driving also helps to
improve my mental and physical health. I regularly encourage friends, neighbors, and
coworkers to commute by bike as well. If I can show them how easy it is to find safe
routes through Palo Alto, I often succeed in convincing them to bike with me.

Personally, I think the Charleston/Arastradero Corridor Plan and Phase 2 of the
Neighborhood Traffic Safety Bike/Pedestrian Plan Projects must be implemented.
As business and housing densities increase in close proximity to one another, these
plans are necessary to ensure the safety of cyclists in congested areas. I think the Hwy
101 /Adobe Creek Bike/Pedestrian Bridge is a nice-to-have option, but because it
has taken such a long time to build and is estimated at such a high cost, it is less
important to me. The Clark Avenue-to-West Bayshore crossing that East Palo Alto is
building is an example of a bike bridge over 101 that looks like it will complete sooner
and at less expense than the Adobe Creek project.

Thanks for your consideration and I hope you continue to make big strides in moving
Palo Alto toward becoming an even more bike-friendly city.

--
Clara Chang
mailto:clarac@ABCandM.com




                                                      1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 3:25 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Barry M Katz <bkatz@stanford.edu>
Sent:                              Monday, March 19, 2018 10:21 AM
To:                                Council, City
Cc:                                David Coale
Subject:                           To the Finance Committee



To the Finance Committee, Palo Alto City Council:

I am writing to register my strong opposition to continuing investment parking structures, in the California
Avenue district and elsewhere. Investing tens of millions of dollars into infrastructure projects of this sort is a
short-sighted, short-term solution that locks us into a cycle from which there is no escape. As I have observed in
a recent editorial for the Palo Alto Weekly “throwing more ‘capacity' at the problem is like treating obesity by
loosening your belt.”

I believe that as a community we should be looking at alternatives that address the underlying problem, not
simply throwing money at its visible symptoms.

Barry Katz
Consulting Professor, Design Group
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Stanford University
m: 650.644-8697




                                                          2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 3:25 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                                Elaine Uang <elaine.uang@gmail.com>
Sent:                                Monday, March 19, 2018 10:47 AM
To:                                  Council, City
Subject:                             Please Fund Sustainable Streets for All!


Dear City Council Members,


Palo Alto’s new Comprehensive Plan emphasizes sustainable transportation choices and safe streets for all users. On Tuesday
March 20, as the Finance Committee reviews the $58 million dollar shortfall in the Infrastructure Budget, we hope you will
consider our Comp Plan goals and support full funding for the following three projects to create city-wide sustainable streets for
all:


        Charleston/Arastradero Corridor Plan
        Phase 2 of the Neighborhood Traffic Safety Bike/Pedestrian Plan Projects: (Bryant St Extension, Maybell Ave,
           Stanford Ave, Park Blvd, and Wilkie Way.)
        Hwy 101/Adobe Creek Bicycle/Pedestrian Bridge


All three Infrastructure Plan projects work together to create a strong network of safe streets for everyone who walks, bikes,
rides transit and drives. It improves roadway efficiency and greater safety for all people who use our roads. Above all, these
three projects align with the 2012 Bicycle & Pedestrian Transportation Plan, Goal T-1 of 2017 Comprehensive Plan (Promote
Sustainable Transportation) and 2017 Sustainability & Climate Change Action Plan. Investment in sustainable safe streets for all
is one of the best ways to improve transportation choices and mobility of all residents (young and not-so-young), and to reduce
congestion caused by shorter commutes, school commutes and local trips.
Thank you for your time and attention to this important and difficult budget issue.

Sincerely,
Elaine Uang
on behalf of Palo Alto Forward's Board of Directors




                                                                 3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 3:25 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Heike Schmitz <heike.schmitz@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Monday, March 19, 2018 2:25 PM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         Here is my support for Palo Alto's Bicycle & Pedestrian Transportation Plans



Dear Members of the Palo Alto City Council,

I am a Barron Park resident, live on Amaranta Avenue, and work in downtown Los Altos. I drive my car to
work using Coulomb, Arastradero and Foothill Expressway and sometimes, mostly in the summer, I ride my
bike to work, at different times and often during school traffic hours.

I would like to support the bicycle and pedestrian transportation measures currently planned for Palo
Alto. That includes the Charleston/Arastradero Corridor Plan, Phase 2 of the Neighborhood Traffic Safety
Bike/Pedestrian Plan Projects, and the Hwy 101/Adobe Creek Bicycle/Pedestrian Bridge. Each of these project
aligns with recently approved goals, policies, and programs of the 2012 Bicycle & Pedestrian Transportation
Plan, the 2017 Comprehensive Plan Transportation Element, and the 2017 Sustainability & Climate Change
Action Plan, which prioritize safety, sustainability, and healthy, active alternatives to driving solo.

I am directly affected by the Charleston/Arastradero Corridor Plan, which is now ready for final
construction and I have been waiting for this for many years. This project will provide better safety and
operational efficiency for motorists, bicyclists, pedestrians, and transit users and create new bike lanes where
there currently is a dangerous gap in the existing bike lanes at the El Camino Real intersection.

I find the measures that have been taken up to here have been very successful, for me as a bike rider as
well as a car driver. Yes, at times it feels like there is a lot of traffic, but tht is just what it is and the new
measures seem to help make it as safe as the situation allows. As a car driver, I find traffic from Coulombe to
Gunn acceptable, given the constraints of the environment, such as several large schools and substantial
commuter through-traffic. The kids come first and their safety should be our highest priority. As a car driver, I
accept that responsibility and find the price to pay small. E.g., how can waiting on Coulombe in the morning for
the light to change be a burden? There are never more than three cars waiting to enter Arastradero, which tells
me that at least from that side we are not overloaded.

We have come a far way and everything seems to have improved. Please make sure the last measures are
taken and please make safety for all road users on our city-wide transportation system your priority!

Thank you!

Heike Schmitz




                                                          4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 4:23 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                              lindsayjoye@gmail.com
Sent:                              Monday, March 19, 2018 3:28 PM
To:                                Council, City
Cc:                                Ben@bikesiliconvalley.org
Subject:                           Please support bicycle infrastructure funding


As a 26 year resident of the Ventura neighborhood I strongly urge Palo Alto City Council members to continue funding
improvements to our fine city’s bike infrastructure.

In 1991, we bought our first home on the Park Bike Boulevard because it was a great location to use our bicycles to
safely get to work, Caltrain, California Avenue retail and Palo Alto schools. I commuted to the City of Palo Alto’s Civic
Center office for over 31 years on my bike before I retired.

I have appreciated the bicycling infrastructure improvements on Middlefield, Charleston, Arastradero, Homer (tunnel),
Class I bike path behind Palo Alto High School, Bol Park path and recently on Ross Road. I am looking forward to being
able to bike to the Baylands using the new Adobe Creek overpass instead of worrying that the underpass will be closed. I
especially look forward to the improvements identified in the Phase 2 Neighborhood project plan for Park Blvd. and
Wilkie Way.

Given Palo Alto’s ambitious goals listed in the Sustainability and Climate Action Plan and Comprehensive Plan, it is
imperative that we continue to make Palo Alto safer for cyclists and pedestrians.

Thank you!
Lindsay Joye
Park Blvd., Palo Alto




                                                              1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/20/2018 9:27 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                           ForestLight <forest129@yahoo.com>
Sent:                                           Monday, March 19, 2018 6:48 PM
To:                                             Council, City
Cc:                                             Boyd, Holly
Subject:                                        Requesting Support and Funding for the Charleston-Arastradero Plan


I have lived in Palo Alto, on the south side of both Charleston and Arastradero since 1949.


And my family and I strongly support the Charleston-Arastradero Plan.


We sincerely thank all of you who have supported the development of the Plan over the years.


We are writing to encourage the funding of the implementation of this project as a first priority in the Infrastructure Plan Budget.


We exit and enter our Greenacres One neighborhood several times each day and frequently have to travel the Charleston-Arastradero corridor when the school
children of all ages are going to and coming from school. Our own children attended Juana Briones, JLS and Gunn. And many of our friends and their children
continue to face its perils daily.


So we’re constantly aware of the continuing safety issues posed by this heavy school- traffic load, including many on bicycles. The the need for ensuring the safety
of Palo Alto’s children — and all the other road users on Charleston-Arastradero — is a critical goal for us.


Some of us, in this end of town all too painfully remember the events of January 28, 2003 when one of our south-end children, a 10 year old school girl, was struck
and killed and her friend had her leg broken by a hit-and-run high school student speeding down Miranda on her way to school. One such incident was more than
enough to make the points that:



-Yes, it can happen


-One such incident is too many


-We all need to do our share, and prioritize doing what it takes to keep our children, our community safe.



Road striping, while it has been a significant improvement in this regard, is not enough to ensure traffic control and safety.


With plans complete and Caltrans approvals in place and bids coming in the C-A project is ready to move toward construction if funded. The promised but long-
delayed implementation of this project includes signalization and hardscape improvements that will provide better safety and operational efficiency for motorists,
bicyclists, pedestrians and transit users. We are told that the project also provides for new bike lanes where there currently is a dangerous gap in the existing bike
lanes at the El Camino Real intersection.


It is our understanding that this issue will be under consideration by the Finance Committee tomorrow evening, March 20. So we ask to support its prioritization for
funding and implementation at that meeting and in any future city meetings where it may be discussed.


Please do keep in mind how each Infrastructure project discussed aligns with recently approved goals, policies and programs of the 2012 Bicycle & Pedestrian
Transportation Plan, the 2017 Comprehensive Plan Transportation Element and the 2017 Sustainability & Climate Change Action Plan which prioritize safety,
sustainability and healthy, active alternatives to driving solo.


Sincerely,


Michael & Judith Maurier
Fairmede Ave.
Palo Alto




                                                                                    1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/20/2018 9:27 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                              lindsayjoye@gmail.com
Sent:                              Monday, March 19, 2018 6:18 PM
To:                                Council, City
Cc:                                Ben@bikesiliconvalley.org
Subject:                           Please support bicycle infrastructure funding


As a 26 year resident of the Ventura neighborhood I strongly urge Palo Alto City Council members to continue funding
improvements to our fine city’s bike infrastructure.

In 1991, we bought our first home on the Park Bike Boulevard because it was a great location to use our bicycles to
safely get to work, Caltrain, California Avenue retail and Palo Alto schools. I commuted to the City of Palo Alto’s Civic
Center office for over 31 years on my bike before I retired.

I have appreciated the bicycling infrastructure improvements on Middlefield, Charleston, Arastradero, Homer (tunnel),
Class I bike path behind Palo Alto High School, Bol Park path and recently on Ross Road. I am looking forward to being
able to bike to the Baylands using the new Adobe Creek overpass instead of worrying that the underpass will be closed. I
especially look forward to the improvements identified in the Phase 2 Neighborhood project plan for Park Blvd. and
Wilkie Way.

Given Palo Alto’s ambitious goals listed in the Sustainability and Climate Action Plan and Comprehensive Plan, it is
imperative that we continue to make Palo Alto safer for cyclists and pedestrians.

Thank you!
Lindsay Joye
Park Blvd., Palo Alto




                                                              2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/20/2018 9:27 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Debbie Mytels <dmytels@batnet.com>
Sent:                           Monday, March 19, 2018 4:31 PM
To:                             Council, City
Cc:                             Ben@bikesiliconvalley.org
Subject:                        Bicycle Plan Expenditures



Dear Council members,

I regularly use the bicycle path from my home on Louis Road to my work on East Bayshore Road — EXCEPT
in the winter when there is no safe and direct route to my office because the underpass at 101 is closed due to
high water.

The long promised bike bridge over 101 at Adobe Creek would make bike commuting MUCH easier and safer
for me and hundreds of other bike riders each week. Please do NOT cut this from the City’s 2018-19 budget
plan. Along with other bicycle path improvements, this bridge over 101 will make cycling a safer and more
convenient option for people to get to work thus reducing car trips during the week — and allowing for
recreational use on the weekends.

It would be a sorry decision if this improvement in bicycle infrastructure would be chopped from the city
budget so that more garages for cars downtown and in the Cal Ave. area would be funded instead. Let’s
remember our city’s commitment to sustainable transportation, please!

Debbie Mytels

Debbie Mytels
2824 Louis Road. Palo Alto, CA 94303
(650) 856-7580
dmytels@batnet.com
"Remembering the Future in our Actions Every Day"




                                                       3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/20/2018 9:27 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                            David Coale <david@evcl.com>
Sent:                            Monday, March 19, 2018 10:19 PM
To:                              Council, City; Tanaka, Greg; Scharff, Gregory (internal); Filseth, Eric (Internal); Kou, Lydia
Cc:                              Keene, James; Friend, Gil; Shikada, Ed; Mello, Joshuah; Rupert, Hillary; Eggleston, Brad
Subject:                         Finance Committee, infrastructure projects - City garages
Attachments:                     Analysis of the Finance Committee Staff Report.pdf; PastedGraphic-1.pdf;
                                 PastedGraphic-2.pdf; PastedGraphic-3.pdf


Dear Finance Committee,

Here is an analysis of the Staff Report for “Initial Public Option Survey for Infrastructure Funding Needs" by
Carbon Free Palo Alto. We believe there a much less expensive way to address the city’s parking needs without
building the garages that could save the city $60 million while complying with the Comp and SIP plans.

Thanks for your consideration,

Sincerely,

David Coale
for Carbon Free Palo Alto

———————




Analysis of the Finance Committee Staff Report:

Initial Public Opinion Survey for Infrastructure Funding Needs

by Carbon Free Palo Alto

The recent Finance Committee Staff Report (ID #9039) on funding infrastructure needs for city projects fails to
consider important options when it comes to building the California Avenue Garage. It should take into account
recent trends and changes in transportation options and choices, and should consider the success of the Palo
Alto Transportation Management Association (TMA) in reducing solo car trips in the downtown area.

The recent article in the Palo Alto Weekly (https://www.paloaltoonline.com/news/2018/03/14/palo-alto-
nonprofit-revs-up-efforts-to-reduce-traffic) shows that the TMA efforts have been successful in reducing solo
car trips downtown to such an extent that the downtown garage is not needed. This success has occurred with a
minimally funded program that is not even fully developed. As the article states, the TMA would like to
expand to the Cal Ave area where currently there are similar parking and congestion problems. The TMA can
readily deploy the same solutions that it has applied to the downtown area. Traffic Demand Management
(TDM) has proven to be very affective in reducing congestion, cost and GHG for our area
(http://www.transformca.org/sites/default/files/Windfall for All Summary.pdf).

                                                            1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/20/2018 9:27 AM
This success, combined with the increasing use of ridesharing programs (New Jersey town decides to pay Uber
instead of building a parking lot)1, the electrification of CalTrain, the bike share program (free to the city), and
the eventual introduction of autonomous vehicles, along with changing demographics where people will not
even want to own cars, means that the reductions of solo car use/trips could be sustained even with the
increasing growth in the Cal Ave and downtown areas.

Attachment B of the Staff report, Estimated Savings From Deferring/Eliminating Projects, shows that the
elimination of the Cal Ave and downtown garages would save about $65 million. Fully funding the expansion
of the TMA effort into the Cal Ave area over the next ten years would cost $4.8 million, assuming it would cost
the same as the downtown effort. Therefore, the city could save approximately $60 million with a solution that
would reduce congestion and parking. This solution would also comply with the Palo Alto Comp Plan and the
Sustainability Implementation Plan (SIP), and would avoid the disruptions of building the garages.

With this savings, the rest of the budgeted city-wide infrastructure projects (listed in Table 1), could be funded
by the available or anticipated project funding (listed in Table 2).

This could eliminate the need for a questionable revenue generating ballot measure mentioned in the staff report
as a viable option to raise the requisite revenue to pay for the projects.

The city should also include several additional options in the proposed public opinion survey: 1) define a
special assessment district, which has funded projects in the past and 2) consider a business license tax which
almost all other cities have. The amount of the business tax should include two options: one similar to that of
our neighbors and one similar to the San Francisco business tax, which is higher and will fully fund all the
current and future projects including some of the grade separations.




The proposed solution is the type of 21st century solution that is expected from the heart of Silicon Valley. It
can be implemented faster than building the garages, is flexible and scalable and will avoid building expensive
garages that are likely to be obsolete in only a few years. With the success of the TMA efforts, changes to our
transportation systems and changing demographics, the city can realize this solution for less than $5
million. This solution is also in line with keeping the promise to address the parking issues in the Cal Ave and
downtown areas while avoiding the disruption associated with building the garages and will preserve the other
projects on the infrastructure list, which have also been in the works for years.

We urge you to seriously consider this win-win-win solution: win for the city budget and projects, win for the
Cal Ave and downtown areas and the Comp Plan, and win for the planet and the SIP goals.

Sincerely,

David Coale and Bruce Hodge for Carbon Free Palo Alto

Gladwin d’Souza, Transportation Committee, Loma Prieta Chapter Sierra Club

Adam Stern, Acterra

Adina Levin, Friends of Caltrain

Diane Bailey, Menlo Spark
                                                          2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/20/2018 9:27 AM
Chris Lepe, Transform

Craig Lewis, ED Clean Coalition

Stew Plock, 350 Silicon Valley

Green Sanctuary Committee, Palo Alto Unitarian Universalist Church

Barry Katz, Consulting Professor, Stanford University

Sven Thesen, Evergreen Park

Jane Rosten, Cal Ave area

Debbie Mytels

Walt Hays

Bret Andersen

Lisa Van Dusen

John Woodfill

Jeremy Shaw

Amie Ashton

Mark Grossman

Lisa Altieri

Patricia Kinney

Robyn Duby

Jeb Eddy



1 https://www.theverge.com/2016/10/3/13147680/uber-new-jersey-free-ride-parking-lot-train-commute




                                                        3
Analysis of the Finance Committee Staff Report:
Initial Public Opinion Survey for Infrastructure Funding Needs
by Carbon Free Palo Alto

The recent Finance Committee Staff Report (ID #9039) on funding infrastructure needs for city
projects fails to consider important options when it comes to building the California Avenue
Garage. It should take into account recent trends and changes in transportation options and
choices, and should consider the success of the Palo Alto Transportation Management
Association (TMA) in reducing solo car trips in the downtown area.

The recent article in the Palo Alto Weekly
(https://www.paloaltoonline.com/news/2018/03/14/palo-alto-nonprofit-revs-up-efforts-to-
reduce-traffic) shows that the TMA efforts have been successful in reducing solo car trips
downtown to such an extent that the downtown garage is not needed. This success has
occurred with a minimally funded program that is not even fully developed. As the article
states, the TMA would like to expand to the Cal Ave area where currently there are similar
parking and congestion problems. The TMA can readily deploy the same solutions that it has
applied to the downtown area. Traffic Demand Management (TDM) has proven to be very
affective in reducing congestion, cost and GHG for our area
(http://www.transformca.org/sites/default/files/Windfall for All Summary.pdf).

This success, combined with the increasing use of ridesharing programs (New Jersey town
decides to pay Uber instead of building a parking lot)1, the electrification of CalTrain, the bike
share program (free to the city), and the eventual introduction of autonomous vehicles, along
with changing demographics where people will not even want to own cars, means that the
reductions of solo car use/trips could be sustained even with the increasing growth in the Cal
Ave and downtown areas.

Attachment B of the Staff report, Estimated Savings From Deferring/Eliminating Projects,
shows that the elimination of the Cal Ave and downtown garages would save about $65
million. Fully funding the expansion of the TMA effort into the Cal Ave area over the next ten
years would cost $4.8 million, assuming it would cost the same as the downtown
effort. Therefore, the city could save approximately $60 million with a solution that would
reduce congestion and parking. This solution would also comply with the Palo Alto Comp
Plan and the Sustainability Implementation Plan (SIP), and would avoid the disruptions of
building the garages.
With this savings, the rest of the budgeted city-wide infrastructure projects (listed in Table 1),
could be funded by the available or anticipated project funding (listed in Table 2).

This could eliminate the need for a questionable revenue generating ballot measure
mentioned in the staff report as a viable option to raise the requisite revenue to pay for the
projects.

The city should also include several additional options in the proposed public opinion survey:
1) define a special assessment district, which has funded projects in the past and 2) consider
a business license tax which almost all other cities have. The amount of the business tax
should include two options: one similar to that of our neighbors and one similar to the San
Francisco business tax, which is higher and will fully fund all the current and future projects
including some of the grade separations.




The proposed solution is the type of 21st century solution that is expected from the heart of
Silicon Valley. It can be implemented faster than building the garages, is flexible and scalable
and will avoid building expensive garages that are likely to be obsolete in only a few years.
With the success of the TMA efforts, changes to our transportation systems and changing
demographics, the city can realize this solution for less than $5 million. This solution is also in
line with keeping the promise to address the parking issues in the Cal Ave and downtown
areas while avoiding the disruption associated with building the garages and will preserve the
other projects on the infrastructure list, which have also been in the works for years.

We urge you to seriously consider this win-win-win solution: win for the city budget and
projects, win for the Cal Ave and downtown areas and the Comp Plan, and win for the planet
and the SIP goals.

Sincerely,

David Coale and Bruce Hodge for Carbon Free Palo Alto

Gladwin d’Souza, Transportation Committee, Loma Prieta Chapter Sierra Club
Adam Stern, Acterra
Adina Levin, Friends of Caltrain
Diane Bailey, Menlo Spark
Chris Lepe, Transform
Craig Lewis, ED Clean Coalition
Stew Plock, 350 Silicon Valley
Green Sanctuary Committee, Palo Alto Unitarian Universalist Church
Barry Katz, Consulting Professor, Stanford University
Sven Thesen, Evergreen Park
Jane Rosten, Cal Ave area
Debbie Mytels
Walt Hays
Bret Andersen
Lisa Van Dusen
John Woodfill
Jeremy Shaw
Amie Ashton
Mark Grossman
Lisa Altieri
Patricia Kinney
Robyn Duby
Jeb Eddy




1 https://www.theverge.com/2016/10/3/13147680/uber-new-jersey-free-ride-parking-lot-train-
commute
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/20/2018 4:42 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Neilson Buchanan <cnsbuchanan@yahoo.com>
Sent:                         Tuesday, March 20, 2018 12:36 PM
To:                           Council, City
Cc:                           Dave Price; Gennady Sheyner; Norman H. Beamer; Brand, Richard; Michael Hodos;
                              Gabrielle Layton; Allen Akin; Elaine Uang; Steve Levy; Eric Rosenblum; Sandra Slater
Subject:                      Comments for March 20 Finance Committee
Attachments:                  Cowper Webster Bryant Garage Under Utilization Feb and Mar 2018.xlsx; Strengths
                              and Weaknesses of March 20 Finance Committee Strategies and Tactics.pdf



I am unable to attend tonight's committee meeting.

Please accept the following comments. I apologize for late submission of these comments. I
overlooked the Finance Committee schedule and agenda. I am out of state in Oregon and am
available for any questions you may have now or in future Finance Committee meetings.

Neilson Buchanan
155 Bryant Street
Palo Alto, CA 94301

650 329-0484
650 537-9611 cell
cnsbuchanan@yahoo.com




                                                       1
                              Strengths and Weaknesses Analysis
                                                  Decisions for
                                   March 20 Finance Committee
                                     Allocation of Scarce Capital


Strengths
80% of the options are outlined for public review

Acknowledgement of vulnerable capital cost estimates

Acknowledgment of debt limitations and economic downturn

Prudent leveraging TOT, Doc Transfer Taxes, etc



Weaknesses
Report has a very narrow definition of allocating resources.

    •   The most basic option is traditional choices among competing capital projects.
    •   Report is silent about over-investment in capital creating the operational pressures upon city staff and
        operations. RRPs and TMA are prime examples of chronically under-funded and under-managed city
        operations. As a result, fundamental solutions for parking and traffic mitigation have been failing for the past
        10 years. There are other noteworthy compromised city operations due to under-funding.
    •   The report is silent about the largest capital shortfall . The rail corridor is another massive “gap” cost and it
        seems out of sync with polling of any new CIP package. How can Council CIP surveys be rational without the
        public’s input for the rail corridor modifications?
    •   Accrued pension and retiree healthcare liabilities are so large that they are best addressed as footnotes.
    •   Impact from other agencies creating new sales taxes, polls, parcel taxes, etc is unaddressed and should be
        footnoted. Each of these nearby agencies are creating competition for taxes and fees and in some cases may
        be over-lapping with Palo Alto.
    •   City staff and Council will be making decisions with unknown public reaction to Federal SALT limitation on
        taxpayer’s personal cash flows.
    •   Finally and most importantly, staff report does not present a clear summary of potential funding from
        business community which has created so much negative impact from parking, traffic congestion and mass
        transit shortfalls. The staff report seems to suggest that most funding will be coming from individual
        taxpayers and city reserves.
REDUCTION OF COMPLEXITY
Too many polling alternatives exist in light of severe capital constraints and escalating construction costs. An
expanded tier of top priority capital projects is needed.

Tier One- Essential projects that support Palo Alto for the next 80 years. Deferral is not a practical option financially
or politically.

Public Safety Building           $90 million
California St. Garage            $40 million*
Fire Stations #3 and #4          $17 million
Charleston Corridor              $11 million
Bike Bridge                      $6 million**

Tier Two(A&B)—Deferrable projects with longer-term alternative funding, including new philanthropy. A second
round of city funding would be appropriate for some of these programs after TMA, paid parking programs and other
traffic/parking programs establish their viability.

Byxbee Park                      $.6 million**
Junior Museum/Zoo                $5 million**
Animal Shelter                   $10-15 million**

City Share-Rail Corridor         $100s of millions(TBD late 2018)
Park Master Plan                 $40-45 million**
University Ave Garage            $25 million***


*Costs can reduced via paid parking in some or all floors. Costs can be further reduced by new and reformed PAD to
cover recent addition of floors. Terms for a new PAD must be much tighter than in the past.

**These projects have high potential of mid-term philanthropic support from major corporations and high net worth
donors. This is new ground for City Council and will require fresh skills and goodwill.

***City Council and Finance Committee are not fully informed about the recently improved utilization of Bryant and
Cowper/Webster garage with additional capacity coming from two valet programs to match High Street garage
optimal use. This garage (Waverley/Hamilton) can be deferred for 3-7 years to preserve options for the city-owned
surface lot. The concept of this garage is obsolete. Open space or housing/garage are noteworthy modern options.
If unexpected demand occurs, then a new, reformed PAD can be created and funded by organizations/property
owners creating the need for a traditional parking garage. An analysis from residents will soon be presented showing
that these two garages have recently accommodated 150 additional permitted vehicles on a daily basis. Another 100
vehicles can be parked in these two garages without any denial of service. This will require valet parking service on a
par with High Street garage and permitted vehicles diverted from University Ave RPP neighborhoods. An analysis of
University Avenue parking garages is included with this report to Finance Committee.
CRITICAL PATH DECISIONS
Refine and adopt the two tier concepts.

The compressed CIP timeline creates the potential for complex polling which could create great confusion for the
voters in November. Reduce polling complexity to the most basic options for voters and business community in
November.

Limit debt through Certification of Participation, etc to lowest possible level until rail corridor solutions and funding
have been agreed upon.

Assure that Capital Improvement Projects do not cannibalize the city operational budgets to the degree that key
departments are starved for resources to manage their “daily operational” responsibilities.



Respectfully submitted, Neilson Buchanan March 20, 2018 cnsbuchanan@yahoo.com

650 537-9611
    A         B            C            D         E   FG     H                      I             J         K               L              M          N
1 Cowper/Webster and Bryant Garage Survey
2 Source: N. Buchanan cnsbuchanan@yahoo.com             650 537‐9611
3 photographs are available for Bryant and Cowper/Webster daily surveys
4                                                                        Available Capacity
                                                                                                                                        Built In
                                                                             Untapped          Untapped                                 Safety
                                                                                                           Total
                                                                              otential         potential              Potential for   Cushion for
                                                                                                          Vacant
                    time window Cowper/ Cowper/                            from staffed      from staffed             additional         Peak
                                                                                                          Spaces
                     plus/minus Webster Webster                  Bryant St     Valet             Valet                permit sales     Demand
5                      10 min   Level 6    Level 5               Level 5     Parking**        Parking***              @ 120%             Days
6       Wed, Feb 14    1122am           68         17            no survey            20               26      131             157               46
7       Wed, Feb 14    142pm            61         12            no survey            20               26      119             143               46
8
9       Thur, Feb 15      1207pm               70           13           13             20            26        142             170             46
10      Thur, Feb 15       205pm               58           13            2             20            26        119             143             46
11
12      Fri, Feb 16       1205pm               70           17           13             20            26        146             175            46 Holiday
13      Fri, Feb 16        159pm               75           33           21             20            26        175             210            46 Holiday
14
15      Wed, Feb 21       1155am               72           21             4            20            26        143             172             46
16      Wed, Feb 21       250pm                73           16             5            20            26        140             168             46
17
18      Thur, Feb 22      1150am               76           32           21             20            26        175             210             46
19      Thur, Feb 22      239pm                75           37            2             20            26        160             192             46
20
21      Fri, Feb 23       1159am               75           31           17             20            26        169             203             46
22      Fri, Feb 23       250pm                74           33           23             20            26        176             211             46
23
24      Tues, Feb 27 1201pm                    64           15             5            20            26        130             156             46
25
26      Wed, Feb 28 1148am                     67           17             0            20            26        130             156             46
27      Wed, Feb 28 154pm                      59           15             1            20            26        121             145             46
28
29      Thur, Mar 1 145pm                      69           25             1            20            26        141             169             46
30
31      Fri, Mar 2     1201pm                  69                          0
32
33      Mon, Mar 5 1150am                      38            5
34      Mon, Mar 5 200pm                       32            5             0            20            26        83              100             46
35
36      Tues, Mar 6 1159am                     51            5             5            20            26        107             128             46
37      Tues, Mar 6 215pm                                    5             2
38
39      Wed, Mar 7 1124am                      58           10             7            20            26        121             145             46
40
41      Thurs, Mar 8 240pm                     52           27             5            20            26        130             156             46
42
43      Frid, Mar 9    212pm                   71           23             7            20            26        147             176             46
44
45      Mon, Mar12 121pm                       29            0             0            20            26        75              90              46
46
47      Tues, Mar 13 116pm                     46            3             0            20            26        95              114             46
48
49      Wed, Mar 14 1213pm                     36            0             2            20            26        84              101             46
50
51      Thur, Mar 15 120pm                     68            9             0            20            26        123             148             46
52
53      **Cowper Webster practical valet capacity is 50% of 40 possilbe valet parked vehicles
54      ***Bryant practical valet capacity is 50% of 52 possible valet parked vehicles
55
56      Please note that an analysis for High Street garage is not included due to lack of time. It is a role model for effective management
57      and for leveraging 5‐day a week valet parking service expanding garage capacity by approximately 25‐40+ parking space. As a result
58      City has been able to avoid unnecessary capital investment in garage structures.
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/20/2018 4:43 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Marilyn Keller <marilynkeller@gmail.com>
Sent:                              Tuesday, March 20, 2018 4:04 PM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           Funding for safe, sustainable transportation
Attachments:                       councilgarageletter032018.docx


March 20, 2018

Dear Council Members:

Please support CIP spending for projects that support Palo Alto’s new Comp Plan and Sustainability Implementation Plan
(SIP). These plans envision a shift away from single occupancy vehicles towards a safer, more walkable community with
sustainable transportation choices that better serves our citizens.

Specifically, please support the following projects that address safe sustainable transportation and reduce car traffic:

             Highway 101/Adobe Creek Bicycle/Pedestrian Bridge
             Charleston/Arastradero Corridor Plan
             Phase 2 of the Neighborhood Traffic Safety Bike/Pedestrian Plan Projects.

In addition, please enhance sustainable transportation options in downtown Palo Alto and the Cal Ave. areas to
encourage Palo Alto employees to travel throughout the city without cars, especially during the noon hours.

There are several successful programs to consider to incentivize companies to help employees travel during the work
day. These include using bikes, shuttles, and free passes for Uber, Lyft, or taxi services. Providing these services for
many who live outside of Palo Alto would be far less expensive than adding parking places in garages that cost Palo Alto
citizens about $100,000/space to address a lunch time crowd. Based on staff analyses, the proposed Cal Ave garage
with the extra proposed basement level would exceed needed capacity. Please invest in better transportation options
for the future rather than in excess capacity for single occupancy vehicles.

Marilyn
Keller

3476 Waverley Street
Palo Alto




                                                             1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/20/2018 4:44 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Jeremy Robinson <jeremy.robinson67@gmail.com>
Sent:                         Tuesday, March 20, 2018 4:19 PM
To:                           Council, City
Subject:                      A word concerning the future of Palo Alto Animal Shelter



            Sometimes I have wondered if your vision of our new Animal Shelter is
            anywhere close to what ours is. I hope you have not considered our new facility
            to be just a bigger, newer and more expensive version of what we have had here
            for 40+ years.

            Consider the wonderful new Mitchell Park Library. Any day you visit you will see
            a vibrant environment with people of all ages gathering there, each pursuing his
            own interest. There is something for everyone with quiet excitement and real
            community spirit. There the common thread is books, education and
            learning. We see our new Animal Shelter as something identical only there, the
            common thread will be animals, education and learning.

            At the heart of the new shelter will be the commitment No-Kill , which will
            eventually be standard throughout California. The state of the art medical facility
            will bring people for spay neuter and many other medical procedures now
            offered only by local vets.The shelter will be a place people will come to not only
            find the perfect pet to adopt, but they will come because it will be so inviting and
            will offer so many services to people of all ages. Teaching children how to be
            around all animals, learning empathy for all living things. We envision a Cat Cafe
            where you can have lunch and play with cats and kittens. Ava's would be a
            perfect fit here! How about an outpost for Wildlife Rescue? Friday night movies
            for kids; birthday parties with dogs invited to play; a small library filled with books
            about dogs and cats, rabbits and birds. A dog walking park with trees and
            wandering paths dotted with benches.

            Just think of the income producing features I have just suggested here! But in
            addition to that, consider the appeal this will have to local philanthropists, large
            and small. Name a building after a major donor! Each bench in the park a gift
            from a donor. Each dog or cat room naming the family that donated funds. A
            memorial wall dedicated to beloved pets. The income a facility like this can
            produce will be significant! But as important, it will encompass our community,
            bring people together, encourage fun, friendship and passion for the care of
            animals. And a respect for all living creatures.

            We all know the alternative to our vision is to continue to watch the decline of our
            present shelter; plus the continued cost of maintaining it until it finally closes. My
            absolute fear is that this process is taking so long we could lose the partner we
            need to make this new shelter happen, Pets In Need. That would be a
            catastrophe!


                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/20/2018 4:44 PM
            So please, let's work together to make this a reality before it's too late. On March
            26 we pray we will move forward toward the management agreement.

            Respectfully yours

            Jeremy Robinson
            President
            Friends of the Palo Alto Animal Shelter.




                                                     2
                                                                                            FINANCE MEETING
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/20/2018 5:16 PM
                                                                                            ✔
                                                                                                    03/20/2018
                                                                                                Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                                               1
Carnahan, David

From:                                Elizabeth Goldstein Alexis <ealexis@gmail.com>
Sent:                                Tuesday, March 20, 2018 5:01 PM
To:                                  Council, City
Subject:                             Finance committee: Parking garages/ business license tax



       I am writing to recommend that the finance committee consider a different approach to parking garages.

       First, it is very concerning that public funds would be used to pay for additional parking spaces. As a policy, it is
       difficult to understand why these should not be user funded - through parking fees or through a special district.

       While I understand and am sympathetic to the needs of smaller commercial tenants, there are many ways to ensure
       that the burden falls on those who can afford it and many other policy instruments exist to support small business. For
       California Avenue, it would be great to see a frequent Marguerite shuttle between the Research Park, Stanford and
       California Avenue, particularly during lunchtime. In addition, making sure that any new structure include retail and
       small commercial spaces would increase the supply of available space and lower the cost, as long as zoning
       restrictions limited the uses.

       My understanding is that the new RPP program for Evergreen, while not perfect, has been effective in providing
       adequate space for residents to park. The remaining issue is that employees do not have enough parking spaces.

       For this problem, it seems smart to spend some money on really trying to implement TDM measures, before turning to
       more concrete solutions. As you know, this can be very cost effective as compared to the price of structured parking.

       It does seem that some kind of new structure will be required to replace the spaces used by the Public Safety
       building. This type of project which could combine some parking (paid and otherwise), some retail and perhaps some
       other purpose seems like the ideal candidate for a public-private partnership. If certain concessions such as height
       were made, it would be very interesting to solicit proposals and see what is the lowest cost proposal. It seems
       plausible that this could actually generate revenue for the city - as long we can find other ways to limit how much
       parking needs to be built.

       Business license tax
       We are the only city in the region that does not help businesses directly for some help. With all the critical projects on
       the list, it seems imperative to include this revenue source in the mix.

       Regards,
       Elizabeth Alexis




                                                                 1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/20/2018 5:16 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Ken Joye <kmjoye@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Tuesday, March 20, 2018 5:02 PM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        please re-affirm commitment to bike/ped infrastructure



Since the time that Ellen Fletcher sat on the Palo Alto City Council, our community has continued to make it
easier to get around town on bicycles. At this point, it is important to re-affirm our commitment to Safe Streets
for All Users.

I have been a resident of the Ventura neighborhood since 1992 and one of the things I like most about living
where I do is the ability to walk or ride my bicycle to California Avenue. I appreciate the ability to go shopping
there, on University Avenue or even Castro Street in Mountain View without having to worry about parking an
automobile. I appreciate the ability to bring home my purchases from the Sunday farmer’s market in my bike
trailer. I

I ask that you continue to support these three projects mentioned in the Finance Committee Staff Report
#9039: the Highway-101 Pedestrian/Bicycle Bridge, the Charleston-Arastradero Corridor, and the
Bicycle/Pedestrian Plan Implementation. Each of these fulfills the transportation vision in the Comp Plan and is
tied to our sustainability goals. Now is the time to make sure that these projects are funded so that we can all
benefit from them

I thank you for all the work you do to make Palo Alto a great place to live

Ken Joye




                                                        2
                                                                             RAIL       MEETING
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/20/2018 4:47 PM
                                                                         ✔
                                                                                 03/21/2018
                                                                             Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                        1 2
Carnahan, David

From:                            Nadia Naik <nadianaik@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Tuesday, March 20, 2018 9:34 AM
To:                              cory.wobach@cityofpaloalto.com; Scharff, Gregory (internal); Fine, Adrian; Kou, Lydia
Cc:                              Keene, James; Mello, Joshuah; Shikada, Ed; Gitelman, Hillary; De Geus, Robert; Council,
                                 City; Clerk, City; info
Subject:                         CARRD Public Comment for PA Rail Committee March 21 2018
Attachments:                     Final CARRD Public Comment for PA Rail Committee for March 21 2018 (Initial
                                 Screening of Master List).pdf; Attachment A - SMA Sample pages for PA Rail
                                 Committee comment for March 21 2018 meeting.pdf



Dear City Council Members,

Thank you for the opportunity to comment on this report. Attached please find our full public comment for the
Rail Committee Meeting this week.

We are concerned that by adding criteria and suggesting the elimination of alternatives without first
going to the City Council goes against the explicit intent outlined in the PA Rail Committee Charter.

On 12/4/17 the Rail Committee adopted an addendum to the Rail Committee Charter (Staff Report 8675) in
which they adopted language to improve community engagement. From the report: “The Rail Committee will
provide a recommendation to the City Council at each decision point based on community input as well as data
and analysis developed by a team of staff and consultants.” The following graphic describing the process was
included in the report.




In the current report (9052), Staff has amended the criteria without public or city council input and then applied
that criteria using a scored weighting system that will not be available to the public until tomorrow's meeting
(although the "results" of the application of this screening are in the report).

Based on the process described by the Rail Committee Charter, the “Master List of Alternatives” represents
“Identify Alternatives for Evaluation” in the graphic above. The “screening of alternatives” clearly falls in the
next step described as “Evaluate and Refine Alternatives.”

If the criteria will be amended further (ie. the staff has amended the Problem Definition and
Evaluation Criteria), then the City Council and public should have a chance to comment before
continuing on to step 2 - "Identify Alternatives for Evaluation. Indeed, by amending the criteria,
applying a weighting and scoring mechanism and narrowing the range of alternatives, the staff report
has skipped to step 3 - "Evaluate and Refine alternatives."

The City Council has clearly articulated the need for full engagement from the community on this important
issue. In order to do that, the City council and the public should be allowed time to carefully analyze and give
feedback at each step. If criteria is being redefined and amended, then there should be time to comment on that
and the City Council needs to approve it. If a scoring and weighing of criteria is going to be developed, than
                                                           1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/20/2018 4:47 PM
that also should be available for public comment and city council approval. If a full list of alternatives is being
presented, the public and the City Council should also review that list to be sure it is exhaustive before
narrowing down the alternatives.

We understand that the City is looking to move expediently towards finding a solution, but we must make sure
we are following the process that was outlined and adopted. The Rail Committee previously discussed meeting
more frequently to be able to have more discussion on these issues. We recommend this be done ASAP to
ensure full public participation, city council approval and schedule adherence.

Our full list of remarks is attached. If you have any questions, please let us know.

Regards,
Nadia Naik
Co-founder, CARRD
www.calhsr.com
info@calhsr.com




                                                          2
                           Public	  Comment:	  PA	  Rail	  Committee	  Meting	  3/21/18	     1	  


To:           Palo Alto Rail Committee
From:         CARRD
Date:         March 2018
Subject:      Comments on Initial Screening of the Master List of Ideas for the Connecting
              Palo Alto Rail Program

We appreciate the effort the city has made in trying to get as many people as possible to
engage with this topic. We offer the following comments and recommendations to help improve
public participation and the City’s process as we move forward through the elimination of
alternatives. We will go into the following points in depth, but at a high level, here is the
summary of comments and recommendations

Process Recommendations:
   1. The Rail Committee must follow their Charter and make recommendations to City Council
      before any alternatives are eliminated.
   2. The Master List of Alternatives is unclear and should include more graphics to help
      citizens understand the alternatives.
   3. Staff’s addendum to criteria requires review by City Council per Rail Charter
   4. Allow the public and City Council time to comment on the scoring methodology and how
      weighting of the criteria was used to eliminate before moving forward
   5. Technical Advisory Committee Members and Key Stakeholders should provide more
      detailed feedback on criteria, scoring and weighting of criteria, and this should be
      reviewed by City Council, before the elimination of alternatives can begin
   6. Amend the TAC to ensure domain expertise
   7. Funding Feasibility is unclear
   8. Funding/Financing paper and public comments should be reflected in a final document
      that forms the basis of the “Funding Feasibility” criteria
   9. Use a more robust system to classify and sort considerations to develop criteria and
      identify responsible parties for decision making per CSS principles

Criteria Recommendations:
   1. Criteria that incorporates Comp Plan Goals should be included
   2. Calculate the impact and alternatives of heavy freight on grade separations and related
       impacts:
   3. Station Access and Station Areas should be considered in the criteria
   4. Criteria should include recommendations from the SPUR Caltrain Corridor Vision Report
   5. Criteria should take into consideration future track upgrades that might be necessary
       (TAC should verify what’s needed)
   6. Criteria for bike/ped crossings should consider vertical height of existing tracks as well as
       circulation of bikes and cars
   7. Less tangible, value based, criteria must be developed to eliminate alternatives:

On-going Process Recommendations:
     1. Database of public comments should be made public
     2. Glossary is a helpful, please continue

If there are any questions, please don’t hesitate to contact us: info@calhsr.com
 Title: Adoption of an Addendum to the Rail Committee Charter

 From: City Manager
                               Public	  Comment:	  PA	  Rail	  Committee	  Meting	  3/21/18	               2	  
 Lead Department: Planning and Community Environment
Process Recommendations:
1.Recommendation
   The Rail Committee Charter requires recommendations to City Council before any
alternatives are eliminated.
  Staff recommends   that the City Council accept the Rail Committee’s recommendation
  and adopt the following addendum to the Rail Committee’s current charter (attached):
The staff report recommends “the Rail Committee take up an action item to move forward with
the early elimination of Ideas at its first meeting in April.” It appears, however, that eliminating
      The
criteria   City having
         before Councilidentified
                         is committed     to robust
                                  all of the        community
                                             alternatives          engagement
                                                          for evaluation       regarding
                                                                         goes against  the grade
                                                                                            Rail
      separations
Committee         along the Caltrain corridor and has requested that the Rail Committee
             Charter.
     conduct meetings to engage directly with community stakeholders to support the
      decision-making
On 12/4/17                    process. adopted
               the Rail Committee          These an  meetings
                                                        addendum willtobetheformatted     to allow
                                                                              Rail Committee          for (Staff
                                                                                                 Charter   and
Reportencourage dialog and to supplement other regular meetings of the Committee adopted
         8675)   in which     they  adopted    language    to improve    community    engagement.       The as
language from that report: “The City Council is committed to robust community engagement regarding
      well as larger community workshops, focus group meetings, and other forms of
grade separations along the Caltrain corridor and has requested that the Rail Committee conduct
      engagement
meetings                utilizedwith
          to engage directly      to develop
                                       community  a stakeholders
                                                     Context Sensitive      Solution
                                                                   to support         for the rail process.
                                                                               the decision-making    corridor.These
      Thewill
meetings   RailbeCommittee
                   formatted towill    ultimately
                                   allow            formulatedialog
                                          for and encourage      recommendations        to the
                                                                        and to supplement   otherCity  Council.
                                                                                                  regular  meetings
      The  stakeholder       input  that  the  Committee     receives    will help shape   and
of the Committee as well as larger community workshops, focus group meetings, and other forms ofinform   those
      recommendations
engagement                     and the
              utilized to develop        Council’s
                                     a Context       decisions.
                                                 Sensitive Solution for the rail corridor. The Rail Committee will
ultimately formulate recommendations to the City Council. The stakeholder input that the Committee
receives  will help
  Executive          shape and inform those recommendations and the Council’s decisions.”
                 Summary
  On April 11, 2017, the City Council adopted an updated charter for the Rail Committee
The Staff report also explains “The Rail Committee will provide a recommendation to the City
  (Attachment A) and on September 11, 2017, the City Council requested an addendum
Council at each decision point based on community input as well as data and analysis
  to the RailbyCommittee’s
developed         a team of staff charter,   reflecting its The
                                      and consultants.”       desire   for thegraphic
                                                                  following     Rail Committee
                                                                                       describingtothe play an
                                                                                                         process
  expanded
was   includedrole    in community
                 in the  report.         engagement. The Rail Committee considered a draft of




  the addendum on November 8, 2017 and recommended its adoption. The goal of the
The current staff report (9052) is recommending that the Rail Committee simply receive the
report on the “Initial Screening of the Master List of Ideas” but it doesn’t recommend any action
until
  City early
       of Palo April.
               Alto At the Trenching/Tunneling Community Meeting, a Powerpoint presentation
                                                                                       Page 1
given by Staff described that the “Master List” was developed in January 2018, however this list
was not made available to the public until now.

Based on the process described by the Rail Committee Charter, the “Master List of Alternatives”
which would represent “Identify Alternatives for Evaluation” in the graphic above. The “screening
of alternatives” clearly falls in the next step described as “Evaluate and Refine Alternatives.”
Before proceeding to step 3, the full City Council should be updated on what has happened in
Step 2 and they should be allowed to opine. Additionally, the public should be allowed time to
review the entire list of alternatives before proceeding to the elimination phase.

While the Master List of Alternatives is extensive, it does not include all possibilities. For
example, Alternative WVR is described as a “Citywide railroad viaduct from Menlo Park city
limits to Mountain View city limits within existing rail corridor with two new elevated stations.” A
similar variation of this alternative could include NOT building elevated stations but instead
                           Public	  Comment:	  PA	  Rail	  Committee	  Meting	  3/21/18	       3	  

using existing stations. This is not included on the list. There are multiple examples of this type
of variability that should be addressed by the public and the full City Council before any
alternatives are eliminated.

2. The Master List of Alternatives is unclear and should include more graphics to help
citizens understand the alternatives.

The Master List of Alternatives provides a technical description of a number of grade crossing
alternatives that are difficult to understand without graphics. For example, on page 11,
alternative MDA is described as “No grade separation at Meadow Drive crossing; depress Alma
Street into trench within existing Alma Street right-of-way under Meadow Drive (no connection
between Meadow Drive and Alma Street)” is very difficult for most people to understand without
a graphic representing what that would look like. The Master List also makes references to
information that is not described. For example, Alternative MDN makes reference to “potential
Section 130 project to be completed in 2020-2022” without offering any explanation as to what
that is or what it would entail. In order for the public to be able to adequately comment on the
alternatives, more drawings and descriptions should accompany the Master List of Alternatives.

3. Staff’s addendum to criteria requires review by City Council per the Rail Charter

The City Council adopted criteria in September 2017, but in this report, the Staff amended the
criteria in seemingly meaningful ways and then developed a scoring and weighting system
without any input from the City Council and/or without input from stakeholders or the TAC.
These proposed changes warrant a review by the full City Council. We would agree generally
that the evaluation criteria should be amended but this change warrants public review and full
council approval before continuing to the next step.

4. Allow the public and City Council time to comment on the scoring methodology and
how weighting of the criteria was used to eliminate before moving forward

The Staff report describes in detail the process by which City Staff took the Master List of Ideas
and then applied criteria to develop the results of the Initial Screening. This elimination process
used the criteria approved by City Council in September 2017, but added three new criteria
developed and applied by staff. From the Staff report (ID# 9052 pg 3-4): “Using the methodology
outlined below, Staff conducted an Initial Screening exercise based on the adopted Evaluation
Criteria, as well as three new criteria: 1) Estimated Community Support, City of Palo Alto Page 4
2) Constructability, and 3) Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) Opinion. Much of this scoring is
qualitative in nature and relies on the professional judgment of Staff. An internal working group
comprised of staff from the Planning and Community Environment Department, Public Works
Department, and Utilities Department coordinated on the evaluation under the technical
screening criteria.”

Unfortunately, the report explains that the detailed scoring used for the initial screening will be
distributed during the Rail Committee Meeting on March 21st. This does not provide the public or
the City Council time to review how the scoring methods were applied, how the different criteria
were weighted, and whether they would agree with the methods or results.

Additionally, “Estimated Community Support” is described as criteria used to judge Staff’s belief
that the project may have broad support within the community based on their recent community
                             Public	  Comment:	  PA	  Rail	  Committee	  Meting	  3/21/18	      4	  

  engagement activities. A better way to estimate community support is to have detailed criteria
  that encapsulate the various concerns of the community so that support for a variety of
  characteristics and goals can ultimately be decided by the City Council. For example, a tunnel
  has repeatedly been the single most supported alternative, but the community support for a
  tunnel might wane significantly if a $15,000 parcel tax per Palo Altan was proposed. And,
  without seeing the weighting of the scoring criteria, it is impossible to understand how the
  citywide trench and tunnel alternatives were eliminated given they would have scored very high
  on the “Estimated Community Support” criteria. We recommend eliminating the criteria
  “Estimated Community Support” altogether.

  5. Technical Advisory Committee Members and Key Stakeholders should provide more
  detailed feedback on criteria, scoring and weighting of criteria, and this should be
  reviewed by City Council, before the elimination of alternatives can begin

  The Technical Advisory Committee should be included in helping establish criteria. The Staff
  report makes clear that the TAC has not yet provided feedback as they have not met to discuss
  the Master List of Alternatives. However, it is unclear whether when they do meet, they will
  simply provide one metric (aka: “TAC Opinion” or whether they will further refine the technical
  criteria that might be necessary).

  Our recommendation is that the TAC be asked a series of specific questions set to elicit more
  information about whether we have the right technical criteria represented in our current criteria
  process. In addition, TAC recommended criteria should be brought to the full City Council for
  review.

  The Community Engagement Plan presented to the Rail Committee on 9/5/17 explains that “The
  Connecting Palo Alto process will bring forward input and lead to decisions that will impact a
  wide range of stakeholders so the identification of key participants is essential to a successful
  outcome.”

  This Plan identified the following participants or target audiences:
  • Palo Alto residents who live near or                     • Non-profit organizations (i.e. CARRD
      travel across the rail corridor                           and Friends of Caltrain)
  • Regular transit riders                                   • Local businesses
  • Senior citizens                                          • Local educational institutions
  • Citizens with special needs                              • Local environmental advocates
  • Low income residents
                                                             • Community-based organizations
  • City elected officials and staff
                                                             • Neighboring elected officials and staff
                                                             • Other members of the general public

We recommend the Rail Committee direct staff to obtain feedback from the identified groups to
ensure that the final criteria and weighting methodology used for scoring specifically considers key
stakeholder input. This is especially important for stakeholder groups that have had low attendance or
engagement thus far. (For example, how is the City tracking whether the needs of low income or
                                               Public	  Comment:	  PA	  Rail	  Committee	  Meting	  3/21/18	                                  5	  

special needs residents are being considered in the criteria? How can we know what their needs
might be without specific engagement around this issue?)

6. Amend the TAC to ensure domain expertise.
The current TAC (as described by 9/5/2017 in Staff report 8277) was described a group that will help
“identify the technical opportunities and constraints for the various alternatives.” The TAC “will likely
only be convened on an as-needed basis moving forward. “ Our understanding is that the make-up of
the TAC is as follows:

     •     California High Speed Rail Authority                                                 •     Palo Alto Transportation Management
     •     Catrain (PCJBP)                                                                            Association (PATMA)
     •     City of Menlo Park                                                                   •     Palo Alto Unified School District (and
     •     City of Mountain View                                                                      interested site administrators)
     •     City of PA Planning and Community                                                    •     Santa Clara County Roads and Airport
           Environment Department                                                                     Department
     •     City of PA Public Works Department                                                   •     Santa Clara VTA
     •     PA Pedestrian and Bicycle Advisory                                                   •     Santa Clara Valley Water District
           Committee                                                                            •     Stanford University
                                                                                                •     Union Pacific

CARRD recommends the City consider amending the TAC to ensure technical
expertise/representation in the following areas:
   • Arborist and/or CANOPY/ or similar           • Stanford Research Park
   • Domain expertise in Operations and           • Stanford Shopping Center Stanford
       Maintenance                                    Hospital
   • Domain expertise on staging                  • Other Large Employers along the
       construction of active                         Caltrain ROW in PA
   • Passenger / freight railroad (Caltrain       • Historic Resources
       does NOT have this)
   • Hydrologist
          The project will likely facilitate improved rail operations.
          The project will likely have no impact on rail operations.
7. Funding    Feasibility is unclear
          The project will likely constrain flexibility for future rail operations and expansion of
There is no  description
          service.                 of the underlying criteria for “Funding                            Feasibility”, although it is identified as a
potential “fatal flaw.”
Funding Feasibility (Fatal Flaw)


            ✔     It’s possible that the entire project can be funded with established revenue
            sources.



            X       It’s possible that the majority of the project can be funded with established

            revenue sources, although some portion of the project will likely require new
            funding mechanisms, and that portion is likely to be eligible for competitive grant
            funding.



            X       The estimated cost of the project likely exceeds the capacity of existing

            revenue sources and potential new funding mechanisms, and the project would be
            unlikely to be eligible for competitive grant funding.

Tier 2 Evaluation Criteria

Reduce Noise
                The project will likely reduce noise from trains—air horns and roadway crossing warning
                bells—while not increasing other noise.
                               Public	  Comment:	  PA	  Rail	  Committee	  Meting	  3/21/18	          6	  

It is unclear what is meant by “established revenue sources” – is this Measure B only? Does it include
other ideas presented in the Funding/Financing White Paper? Did the public comments received on
the Funding/Financing White paper change the city’s assumptions and if so how? Etc. Again, without
clarity on what is being used for criteria and weighting, it is difficult for the public or the City Council to
agree or disagree with Staff’s analysis.

8. Public comments to the Funding/Financing paper should be reflected in a final document
that forms the basis of the “Funding Feasibility” criteria:

The Funding/Financing Paper was presented on November 29, 2017 to the Rail Committee. Nowhere
on the City’s website is it possible to view any of the public comment that was made on this
document. There were no electronic copies of public comment made available for the November 29th
report and at the subsequent meeting in February 2018, there were no electronic versions of public
comment made on the Funding/Financing report. Without this information made available, the public
has no idea what, if any, feedback was received on this report.

A rough count shows that about 25% of the comments logged at the Trenching/Tunneling meeting in
March 2018 (Staff Report #9049) related to the funding and financing of alternatives for these
projects. In order to show that the City is evaluating suggestions from the public and is seeking ways
to be creative on this issue, we recommend that comments made to the Funding/Financing paper or
in other settings related to funding, should be made public and incorporated in a public report and
their feasibility should be addressed. This would help the community see that their input is being
heard and considered throughout this iterative process. This cumulative, iterative work could then be
the basis for the “Funding Feasibility” criteria that would then be approved by the City Council.

For example, the Funding/Financing Paper only considered tax measures that last 10 years, despite
the fact that this infrastructure is considered a 100 year project, and even county tax measures last
30 years. Without Council’s decision on what is appropriate to consider in the evaluation criteria and
weighting and scoring, the alternatives should not be eliminated.

9. Use a more robust system to classify and sort considerations to develop criteria and
identify responsible parties for decision making per CSS principles

In a CSS process, concerns, constraints and criteria are developed and reviewed by stakeholders,
technical advisory committees and other relevant parties prior to their final approval. Only AFTER,
this has all been decided ahead of time, would the criteria be applied to the Master List of
alternatives.

Another important element of the process is to identify exactly what technical criteria is assumed
(before options are eliminated) and who is the ultimate owner/decision maker on the assumptions.
For example, there are technical assumptions around freight that are under the purview of
Caltrain/UPRR and others that are CPUC (California Public Utilities Commission) rules. When
eliminating alternatives, it is important to show why a particular alternative failed a technical
requirement. This allows the opportunity to understand the constraint, but also to identify possible
constraints that might be more flexible than previously considered.

To offer a real world example, I’ve included excerpts from a report done by SMA for Caltrain and HSR
that analyzes capacity constraints between operational goals of HSR and Caltrain. (See Attachment
A).
                             Public	  Comment:	  PA	  Rail	  Committee	  Meting	  3/21/18	         7	  

The methodology SMA used is similar to a CSS process:

      Understand and agree upon stakeholder considerations (request clarity on vague/conflicting
      goals)
      Classify and sort considerations
      Develop evaluation criteria
      First tackle the most constrained part of the system
      Build on complexity once fundamental system constraints are satisfied

      They divided the criteria into Constraints, Needs and Wants defined as follows:

      Constraints: Stakeholder expectations that must be fulfilled by the project.

      Needs: Stakeholder expectations that must be fulfilled by the project, if the project constraints
      are not violated or other stakeholder needs are not in conflict.

      Wants: Stakeholder expectations that will be considered once constraints and needs are met
      and if they are feasible.

      If we were to apply that methodology to our grade separations project, one example might be:

      Sequence of Considerations
      Step 1: Identify and tackle the most constrained part of the system
      Step 2: Build upon concept(s) that satisfy fundamental corridor constraints to include
      additional considerations
      Step 3: Increase the robustness of the concept(s) by taking into consideration broader
      considerations that are an integral part of community concerns, but not necessary technical
      requirements

      In the report, considerations are broken into two categories for evaluation purposes:
      1. Constraints and 2. Needs/Wants

      Constraints: Either fulfilled              or not         ✖
      Needs/Wants: Ranges of goal achievement categorized Good, OK or Poor, based on
      stakeholder-defined thresholds

Page 7 of Attachment A shows an example of the chart with alternatives.

The stakeholders and their Needs/Wants are identified on the left side of the chart. This allows the
decision makers to understand what stakeholder concerns are as represented by the Needs/Wants
statements. You may notice that when there are iterations done, the chart identifies the technical
parameters used and the assumptions.

For the purposes of narrowing the range of alternatives for grade separations, we propose that the
City Staff continue using a similar methodology that specifically tracks the concerns raised by the
various stakeholder segments such as businesses, schools, Technical Advisory Committee members
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Public	  Comment:	  PA	  Rail	  Committee	  Meting	  3/21/18	     8	  

(not as a group, but each individual domain expert), City Council, etc. and also the technical
assumptions that were used when eliminating (or keeping) specific alternatives.

This improved methodology will allow councilmembers and the public to respond to each assumption
clearly and directly based on the specific information, rather than an interpretation of general and
unspecific interpretations. For example, under the Tier 1 Criteria “Facilitate Movement – All Modes”,
the report describes the achievement of this goal as: “At year of completion, the project will likely
improve access and mobility compared to a scenario with no project.” Any grade separation built
where there isn’t currently a separation will likely improve movement. But, if a crossing is closed then
“facilitate movement” is difficult to assess, especially if spill-over traffic has resulted in a new concern
elsewhere (or possibly in multiple locations). Thus, the criteria description requires further explanation
and the weighting of any scoring related to this goal must be carefully articulated and considered as
well to ensure it can be applied as intended.


Criteria Suggestions:
1. Criteria that incorporates Comp Plan Goals should be included
Palo Alto has a number of long-term vision goals expressed in the new Comprehensive Plan. When
looking at refining alternatives for grade separations, the City should look for ways to assess whether
something that might be considered a project impact could in fact be an opportunity to achieve or
hinder an indirect goal. As an example, how would the alternative of a trench or tunnel help the goal
of developing more housing? Would the associated costs of alternatives be more appealing if they
were solving more than one problem? Would the attainment of more than one goal present a
secondary funding source not yet considered? How can the City and staff incorporate this type of
thinking into the criteria categories and eventual scoring and weighting methodology?

2. Calculate the impact and alternatives of heavy freight on grade separations and related
impacts:
There were many community comments relating to freight. While the City asked the consultant to look
at the possibility of going at a steeper grade (2%), the consultant report does not explain how heavy
freight requirements impact the range of alternatives, design, cost, construction and ongoing
operation.

We recommend Clem Tillier’s excellent blog1 post about the effects of heavy freight trains on grade
separation planning. Below is a paraphrased version of Clem’s information to help clarify why
quantifying impacts of heavy freight is important.

Heavy freight requires steeper grades than electrified passenger trains. (This is the explanation for
the difference between 1% and 2% grade considerations, which this committee has heard about
extensively). When a train track is designed to go over the road (train is lifted on a berm or an aerial
viaduct), heavy freight increases the length and the area of the retaining wall that must be built to lift
the tracks. This is true for hybrid alternatives as well.




	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  
1	  http://caltrain-hsr.blogspot.com/2009/08/effect-of-heavy-freight.html	  
                               Public	  Comment:	  PA	  Rail	  Committee	  Meting	  3/21/18	                           9	  


Compare and contrast a typical 1% rail overpass with a 2.5% rail overpass:
                                                                                                                    Freight
        Parameter                            1% Grade                                             2.5% Grade
                                                                                                                    Effect
  Length of Wall > .3
                                                4100 ft                                                 2800 ft   44% longer
  m (1 ft) High
  Length of Wall > 2.4
                                                2750 ft                                                 1800 ft   53% longer
  m (8 ft) High
  Wall Area                          45,000 sq ft                                              32,000 sq ft       40% larger
  Fill Volume (75 ft          125,000 cubic yards (12,500                                   90,000 cubic yards
                                                                                                                  40% larger
  Width)                              truckloads)                                           (9,000 truckloads)

When a train track is designed to go under the road (trench), heavy freight increases the length
(requires a more gradual slope down) and increases the depth requirement because freight trains are
three feet taller than passenger trains. As Clem explains: “On a structure that is 75 feet wide and well
over a mile long, that adds up to a lot of extra dirt removal.”

Compare and contrast a typical 1% rail trench underpass with a 2.5% trench underpass:
                                                                                                                    Freight
          Parameter                              1% Grade                                        2.5% Grade
                                                                                                                    Effect
  Depth of Trench                                     32 ft                                              29 ft    10% deeper
  Length of Trench > .3 m
                                                    6100 ft                                             3400 ft   80% longer
  (1 ft) Deep
  Trench Wall Area                         100,000 sq ft                                      50,000 sq ft        100% larger
  Excavated Volume (75 ft               280,000 cubic yards                               140,000 cubic yards
                                                                                                                  100% larger
  Width)                                (28,000 truckloads)                               (14,000 truckloads)

Heavy freight trains double the amount of excavation needed for a trench.

When building aerials (bridge columns), bridge design that has heavy freight requires: bigger and/or
more concrete columns, shorter spans with columns spaced closer together, thicker bridge decks and
costlier construction.

It is possible to have freight on the corridor but not have all of the impacts related to heavy freight.
“Light freight” operates with much lighter loads and with more compact loading profiles.

   -----
Before alternatives are eliminated, the new consultant should offer their estimates on what would be
the cost differential for the various alternatives are if there was light freight instead of heavy freight to
get a range of how much cost is associated with different freight assumptions.

If, after careful analysis, it is clear that the savings in Palo Alto would be significant, the City could
then decide whether or not they would like to pursue a regional dialogue in favor of light freight.
Conversely, if the analysis shows little to no impact, then the analysis could be used to address the
community’s concerns. The topic of the effects of heavy freight on grade separations is not a new
one. It was discussed during the High Speed Rail process, at the Caltrain LPMG meetings years ago
and was a topic of constant discussion at the previous Peninsula Cities Consortium meetings. The
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Public	  Comment:	  PA	  Rail	  Committee	  Meting	  3/21/18	     10	  

conversation stalled while Caltrain funding electrification was in limbo, but now, it is again an
important issue that should be quantified and evaluated thoroughly for such an important, visionary
project.

3. Station Access and Station Areas should be considered in the criteria

Caltrain hopes to double capacity over the coming years, which means the number of passengers
getting on and off of Palo Alto stations will significantly increase. Through Transit Oriented
Development and Transportation Demand Management, the ways people arrive at the stations will
likely change, however, station area access and stations themselves should be part of this larger
conversation.

As Clem Tillier points out, “access between three important zones of activity (the University Avenue
shopping district, Stanford University, and the Stanford Shopping Center) is a circuitous and
dysfunctional jumble that is both unpleasant and time consuming to navigate, whether by foot, bike,
car or bus. Neighboring areas just a few hundred feet apart feel miles away from each other.” Clem
recommends “…it's worth considering an even wider range of options: this area could just as well be
redeveloped without any tunnels at all. Streets on either side of the tracks could be reconnected using
regular grade separations. Lytton Street could be connected to the bus depot, El Camino and Quarry
Road, improving bus, shuttle and taxicab connections at the train station.”

When considering whether or not to eliminate alternatives from the Master List of Ideas, re-designing
stations should, from a long-term planning perspective, be seen as a positive. In addition, station
access and station areas offer one of the most likely sources of potential income to help fund
improvements.

4. Criteria should include recommendations from the SPUR Caltrain Corridor Vision Report

The recent SPUR Caltrain Corridor Vision Report 2 makes several recommendations for cities to
consider when planning for more Caltrain service. The report recommends that policy makers:
upgrade stations to attract and accommodate more riders, improve station access for sustainable and
space-efficient modes of travel and proactively manage station access and first- and last-mile
connections at each rail station. SPUR suggests this could be done in partnership with: Peninsula
Corridor JPB, CAHSRA, cities along the corridor, VTA, SMCTD, San Mateo County Transportation
Authority (SMCTA), SFMTA, and SFCTA.

When scoring grade separation alternatives for elimination, the criteria recommended by SPUR
should be considered and viewed as a possible opportunity for collaboration and funding.




	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  
2	  http://www.spur.org/sites/default/files/publications_pdfs/SPUR_Caltrain_Corridor_Vision_Plan.pdf	  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Public	  Comment:	  PA	  Rail	  Committee	  Meting	  3/21/18	     11	  


5. Criteria should take into consideration future track upgrades that might be necessary (TAC
should verify what’s needed):

The tracks at University Avenue station may need to
be straightened in the future to allow for faster
trains. This represents another reason that station
area improvements should be included as part of
the criteria when eliminating alternatives.
The best description of the potential track
reconfigurations is described by Clem Tillier’s blog,3
“…the entire station is offset laterally to the west of
the straight alignment of the peninsula tracks; the
northbound track is offset by 60 feet, and the
southbound track by 85 feet (see photo by ibison4).


6. Criteria for bike/ped crossings should consider vertical height of existing tracks as well as
circulation of bikes and cars.

Palo Alto’s Caltrain right of way currently varies in height greatly from one end of the City to the other.
Once again, Clem’s blog illustrates 4 this well. The below graphic illustrates the shape of Palo Alto.

Working from Caltrain track survey data, here is the shape of Palo Alto, with the vertical scale greatly
exaggerated: (view on line to expand)




Among the Master List of Alternatives for Churchill, the staff report discusses the possibility of a
bike/ped crossing at Kellog, Churchill or Seale. Notice that from Kellog street (which is just before the
Churchill Avenue intersection, to Seale, there is a roughly 10 foot change in height. To what extent
does the existing track profile impact the cost associated with the selection of the best location (from

	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  
3	  http://caltrain-hsr.blogspot.com/2008/12/focus-on-palo-alto.html                                                                                                                                                                                                        	  
4	  http://caltrain-hsr.blogspot.com/2009/05/shape-of-palo-alto.html	  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Public	  Comment:	  PA	  Rail	  Committee	  Meting	  3/21/18	     12	  

a cost/constructability perspective)? The significance of this should be articulated in the criteria to
help make decisions.

Additionally, the criteria for a bike/ped crossing for PALY may be different than the bike/ped crossing
that was built for Homer given the use case (lots more hoards of students at PALY). The placement of
a bike/ped crossing perhaps should not only consider a width big enough to deal with this
phenomenon, but might also consider what streets would make sense from a circulation perspective.
For example, in Old Palo Alto, Seale is a “preferred” street for cars traveling between Alma and
Middlefield because it has less STOP signs than other streets and you can cross Middlefield and
continue on to Newell. What criteria should be developed to help measure how a particular location is
relative to another when thinking about separating cars and bikes given our existing and future road
network goals?

7. Less tangible, value based, criteria must be developed to eliminate alternatives:

NCRHP Report 4805 about best practices explains that Staff is (likely) “comfortable evaluating
alternatives based on quantitative measures like capacity, safety, design standard compliance, plan
compliance, and minimization of direct impacts to known natural resources. However, attempts to
measure issues such as ‘quality of life’ or ‘community cohesion’ will likely be more difficult.” These are
often viewed as intangible and, therefore, un-measurable, but, given their importance to stakeholders,
they must be tackled head-on. The report explains “Ignoring these just because they seem difficult to
measure sends the wrong message to stakeholders that they are unimportant.“

Including criteria that is difficult to quantify is a crucial aspect of the selection process that needs to be
included in any meaningful evaluation of alternatives. Staff and the TAC should work with
stakeholders to develop evaluation criteria for such categories to help pinpoint specific, measurable
items that capture community concerns. The elimination of alternatives will involve difficult trade-offs
and high degrees of controversy, which will benefit from the use of quantitative measures. The criteria
can help objectify the discussion and move stakeholders from strongly held positions to consideration
of specific outcomes from various alternatives. They can also provide decision makers with a
definitive rationale for trade-off decisions and alternative selection.

Seemingly subjective, value based criteria can often be quantified. For example, when weighing
construction impacts, criteria for length of time of disruption or how wide of a swath of the City is
affected or some combination thereof can be identified. The more specific we can be about the
criteria we intend to use and how it will be measured, the better.

On-going Process:
1. Database of public comments should be made public

At the last Rail Committee meeting, the staff described a large database that houses the comments
collected thus far. We would recommend either making the database public or linking to the data
received on the City’s website to allow the public to see what has been submitted. This allows the
City to reflect back to the community that their input was received and recorded. In addition, by
allowing citizens to read other comments submitted new and more creative ideas can be built on the

	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  
5
         http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/nchrp/nchrp_rpt_480.pdf
                             Public	  Comment:	  PA	  Rail	  Committee	  Meting	  3/21/18	     13	  

ideas of others. Finally, as the City moves forward, the future decisions and iterations made by Staff
and the City council will ultimately show how the community’s input helped formulate the final ideas.

2. Glossary is helpful, please continue:

The most recent staff report included a glossary of technical terms. This is an excellent idea and we
recommend continuing this process and finding a way to make an online glossary that could be used
by residents.

Under CSS principles, establishing naming conventions at the outset of the process assists in clear
tracking of alternatives and their variations. Keeping careful notes of each meeting at which
alternatives are discussed, and recording specific reasons why each alternative was either forwarded
for further evaluation or rejected, provides the backbone of this documentation.


Attachments:

Attachment A: Excerpts from SMA study
                                     Full version available at: http://www.tillier.net/stuff/hsr/JSWG_2016_Year_End_Report_final_draft.pdf
Attachment A
     DRAFT                  Project Framework
 Not for distribution




     Understand and agree upon stakeholder
     considerations (request clarity on vague/conflicting goals)

     Classify and sort considerations
     Develop evaluation criteria

     First tackle the most constrained part of the
     system

     Build on complexity once fundamental
     system constraints are satisfied


                        3
Methodology

The methodology was developed and agreed upon by the JSWG and is summarized in
the diagram below:




                             Figure 1 - Analysis methodology




                                           4
    DRAFT                  Classify Considerations
Not for distribution




                           Constraints:   Stakeholder expectations that must be
                                          fulfilled by the project.

                                Needs:    Stakeholder expectations that must be
                                          fulfilled by the project, if the project
                                          constraints are not violated or other
                                          stakeholder needs are not in conflict.

                                Wants:    Stakeholder expectations that will be
                                          considered once constraints and needs
                                          are met and if they are feasible.




                       4
    DRAFT                  Sequence of Considerations
Not for distribution




                           Step 1: Tackle the most constrained part of the system from San
                           Francisco terminal to the approach into San Jose

                           Step 2: Build upon concept(s) that satisfy fundamental corridor
                           constraints to include additional complexity of peak operations at
                           San Jose and to the south

                           Step 3: Increase the robustness of the concept(s) by taking into
                           consideration broader considerations that are an integral part of
                           successful system operations, but not necessary to implementation
                           of peak service



                       5
    DRAFT                  Concept Evaluation Matrix
Not for distribution




                           Considerations are broken into two categories for evaluation purposes:
                           1. Constraints
                           2. Needs/Wants

                           Constraints: Either fulfilled         or not
                           Example:
                           04-C, Caltrain – Serve all stations, including weekend stations, during the peak


                           Needs/Wants: Ranges of goal achievement categorized                                     or
                           based on stakeholder-defined thresholds
                           Example:
                           22-N, Caltrain – Avoid dwelling at any intermediate station for longer than the minimum dwell




                       7
    DRAFT                     Concept Evaluation Matrix - Example
Not for distribution




                              Need/Want Example:
                              22-N, Caltrain – Avoid dwelling at any intermediate station for longer than the minimum dwell


                              Data provided: wherever there is supplemental dwell at a station in the concept, the
                              evaluation will list the train number, station and length of supplemental dwell


                              Evaluation: stakeholders will develop evaluation criteria based on decided-upon thresholds
                              of acceptability. Some samples are below, for demonstrative purposes only:

               Evaluation Basis                             Sample Criteria                                                  Application

          additional dwell for each        Acceptable levels of supplemental dwell at each         Any concept that has a train with more than 7’ supplemental
          station stop occurrence          station: 2’ or less “good”, 2’-7’ “OK” and 7’+ “poor”   dwell at any station would be classified as “poor”
          accumulative additional          Acceptable levels of supplemental dwell for one         Any concept in which every train run has less than 10’
          dwell for one entire train run   train run: +0 “good”, <10’ “OK” and 10’+ “poor”         accumulative supplemental dwell would be classified as “OK”
          Combination of the above         Acceptable levels of supplemental dwell for one         Any concept in which a single train dwells more than 8’ at a
                                           train run: +0 “good”, <10’ “OK” and 10’+ “poor”,        single station would be classified as “poor” even if the
                                           AND Acceptable levels of supplemental dwell at          accumulative additional dwell for each train run is less than 10’
                                           each station: 8’ or less “good/OK” and 8’+ “poor”


                        8
2029 Peninsula Corridor Service, Operations and Infrastructure Considerations Table

                        CONSIDERATIONS CLASSIFICATION
           Constraints: Stakeholder expectations that must be fulfilled by the project.
               Needs: Stakeholder expectations that must be fulfilled by the project, if the project
                        constraints are not violated or other stakeholder needs are not in conflict.
               Wants: Stakeholder expectations that will be considered if they are feasible.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CBOSS Analysis (1.37 brake rate)
                                                                                                                           Concept 1.1                                            Concept 2.0                                          Concept 2.0C                       Concept 2.22C                                                                 Concept 2.22                                             Concept 2.32                                             Concept 2.42                                                  Concept 2.5B
                                                                                                                           Approach G                                            Approach G                                             Approach G                                              Approach G                                               Approach G                                               Approach G                                              Approach G                                                    Approach G
                                                                                                                110mph, Short-Middle 4 Track Overtake                   79 mph, no additional passing tracks                  79 mph, no additional passing tracks                    110 mph, no additional passing tracks                    110 mph, no additional passing tracks                   110mph, Short-Middle 4 Track Overtake                    110mph, Long-Middle 4 Track Overtake                    110mph, Long-Middle 3 Track Overtake - Bidirectional
                                                                                                                            6 CT/4 HSR                                             6 CT/0 HSR                                           6 CT/ 0 HSR                                        6 CT/4 HSR, HSR Interval                                 6 CT/4 HSR, HSR Interval                                6 CT/4 HSR, HSR Interval                                 6 CT/4 HSR, HSR Interval                                      6 CT/4 HSR, HSR Interval
    #      Stakeholder Consideration                                                                                     4/5-min Headways                                       2/3-min Headways                                  CBOSS derived headways                                   CBOSS derived headways                                      2/3-min Headways                                         2/3-min Headways                                         2/3-min Headways                                             2/3-min Headways

    01-C   HSR           4 TPH between San Jose and San Francisco                                                                                                                                 No HSR                                                 No HSR

    02-C   HSR           stop 2 TPH at Millbrae                                                                                                                                                   No HSR                                                 No HSR

    03-C   Caltrain      run 6 TPH between San Jose and San Francisco
    04-C   Caltrain      serve all stations, including weekend stations, during the peak
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3 min corridor/2 min junction                            3 min corridor/2 min junction                             3 min corridor/2 min junction                           3 min corridor/2 min junction                                 3 min corridor/2 min junction
                         ensure that signal system delivers the performance required to operate Caltrain                         5 min Headway/Separation                              5 min Headway/Separation                               5 min Headway/Separation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Headway/Separation                                       Headway/Separation                                        Headway/Separation                                      Headway/Separation                                            Headway/Separation
    05-C Caltrain        and HSR service/schedule developed as part of this project

                                                                                                                                   TTC: 31' | 31' | 37' | 37'                                     No HSR                                                 No HSR                                          TTC: 30' | 30' | 30' | 29'                               TTC: 30' | 30' | 30' | 30'                                TTC: 28' | 28' | 30' | 30                               TTC: 27' | 28' | 30' | 30                                      TTC: 29' | 29' | 36' | 36'
    07-C HSR             have at least 20 minutes to turn a train at a terminal station
                         dwell at least for 2 minutes at intermediate station stops (such as Millbrae, San                   2 minute HSR dwell time at Millbrae
                                                                                                                                                                                                  No HSR                                                 No HSR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2 minute HSR dwell time at Millbrae                      2 minute HSR dwell time at Millbrae                      2 minute HSR dwell time at Millbrae                      2 minute HSR dwell time at Millbrae                           2 minute HSR dwell time at Millbrae
                                                                                                                                         assumed                                                                                                                                                               assumed                                                  assumed                                                  assumed                                                  assumed                                                       assumed
    08-C HSR             Jose)

                                                                                                                                        EMU, PB_AGV                                               No HSR                                                 No HSR                                               EMU, PB_AGV                                              EMU, PB_AGV                                              EMU, PB_AGV                                              EMU, PB_AGV                                                   EMU, PB_AGV
    09-C HSR             use 400m "AGV" trains with the performance characteristics as provided by PB
                                                                                                                                         TTC: 22' | 22'                                        TTC: 34' | 33'                                         TTC: 34' | 33'                                           TTC: 31' | 30'                                           TTC: 31' | 31'                                           TTC: 38' | 38'                                           TTC: 43' | 44'                                                TTC: 49' | 51'
                                                                                                                               4th and King: 24' | 25' | 48' | 49'                   4th and King: 30' | 22' | 29' | 22'                    4th and King: 29' | 22' | 29' | 21'                      4th and King: 34' | 38' | 42' | 43'                      4th and King: 35' | 39' | 42' | 43'                      4th and King: 27' | 28' | 46' | 46'                      4th and King: 28' | 29' | 31' | 32'                           4th and King: 30' | 32' | 34' | 35'
    10-C Caltrain        have at least 20 minutes to turn a train at a terminal station                                        SJ: 22' | 22' | 22' | 22' | 28' | 28'                 SJ: 24' | 25' | 24' | 23' | 23' | 24'                  SJ: 22' | 23' | 23' | 24' | 24' | 24'                    SJ: 23' | 23' | 23' | 25' | 25' | 25'                    SJ: 24' | 25' | 25' | 27' | 27' | 27'                    SJ: 25' | 28' | 29' | 29' | 32' | 37'                    SJ: 28' | 29' | 30' | 30' | 34' | 34'                         SJ: 22' | 22' | 29' | 29' | 29' | 31'


                         Dwell at least at each station for the times specified in the JPB/CAHSR Blended                    Caltrain dwell times based on Caltrain                Caltrain dwell times based on Caltrain                 Caltrain dwell times based on Caltrain                   Caltrain dwell times based on Caltrain                   Caltrain dwell times based on Caltrain                 Caltrain dwell times based on Caltrain LTK              Caltrain dwell times based on Caltrain LTK                    Caltrain dwell times based on Caltrain LTK
                                                                                                                             LTK Blended Operations Analysis                       LTK Blended Operations Analysis                        LTK Blended Operations Analysis                          LTK Blended Operations Analysis                          LTK Blended Operations Analysis                              Blended Operations Analysis                             Blended Operations Analysis                                   Blended Operations Analysis
    11-C Caltrain        Operations Studies
                                                                                                                            EMU, 8-Car Consist, Adapted to EMU                     EMU, 8-Car Consist, Adapted to EMU                    EMU, 8-Car Consist, Adapted to EMU                       EMU, 8-Car Consist, Adapted to EMU                       EMU, 8-Car Consist, Adapted to EMU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EMU, 8-Car Consist, Adapted to EMU RFP                  EMU, 8-Car Consist, Adapted to EMU RFP                        EMU, 8-Car Consist, Adapted to EMU RFP
                         use 8-car EMU's for all their 2029 service between San Francisco and San Jose                       RFP train performance and 8 coach                      RFP train performance and 8 coach                     RFP train performance and 8 coach                        RFP train performance and 8 coach                        RFP train performance and 8 coach
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  train performance and 8 coach train length              train performance and 8 coach train length                    train performance and 8 coach train length
                                                                                                                                         train length                                           train length                                          train length                                             train length                                             train length
    12-C Caltrain        with the performance defined in Caltrain's EMU RFP

                                                                                                                                110 MPH speed profile used                             79 MPH speed profile used                              79 MPH speed profile used                                110 MPH speed profile used                               110 MPH speed profile used                               110 MPH speed profile used                              110 MPH speed profile used                                    110 MPH speed profile used
    13-C Caltrain/HSR limit speed increase to 110-MPH speed profile provided by HSR
                                                                                                                             Short-middle 4 Track Overtake not                                                                                                                                      Short-middle 4 Track Overtake not                        Short-middle 4 Track Overtake not
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Short-middle 4 Track Overtake utilized                  Long-middle 4 Track Overtake utilized                          Long-middle 3 Track Overtake utilized
                      limit the analysis of new passing tracks to consider only a) JPB/CAHSR Blended                                       utilized                                               No build                                               No build                                                 utilized                                                 utilized
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Millbrae 4 Track utilized                              Millbrae 4 Track utilized                                      Millbrae 4 Track utilized
                                                                                                                                  Millbrae 4 Track utilized                                                                                                                                              Millbrae 4 Track utilized                                Millbrae 4 Track utilized
    14-C Caltrain/HSR Operations Studies short-middle 4-track section, b) Millbrae 4-track station
                                                                                                                                  2016 Caltrain Track Charts                            2016 Caltrain Track Charts                             2016 Caltrain Track Charts                               2016 Caltrain Track Charts                               2016 Caltrain Track Charts                              2016 Caltrain Track Charts                               2016 Caltrain Track Charts                                    2016 Caltrain Track Charts
                      use existing track layout together with Caltrain identified capital program                             Capital Improvements incorporated                     Capital Improvements incorporated                      Capital Improvements incorporated                        Capital Improvements incorporated                        Capital Improvements incorporated                   Capital Improvements incorporated (South                 Capital Improvements incorporated (South                      Capital Improvements incorporated (South
                                                                                                                             (South Terminal Phase III, South SF                   (South Terminal Phase III, South SF                    (South Terminal Phase III, South SF                      (South Terminal Phase III, South SF                      (South Terminal Phase III, South SF                  Terminal Phase III, South SF Station, South              Terminal Phase III, South SF Station, South                   Terminal Phase III, South SF Station, South
    15-C Caltrain/HSR improvements as a baseline                                                                               Station, South Terminal Phase II)                     Station, South Terminal Phase II)                      Station, South Terminal Phase II)                        Station, South Terminal Phase II)                        Station, South Terminal Phase II)                              Terminal Phase II)                                       Terminal Phase II)                                            Terminal Phase II)

                                                                                                               Assumed 4-track improvements at Millbrae                               No HSR                                                 No HSR                                 Assumed 4-track improvements at Millbrae                 Assumed 4-track improvements at Millbrae                 Assumed 4-track improvements at Millbrae                 Assumed 4-track improvements at Millbrae                      Assumed 4-track improvements at Millbrae
    06-N HSR             use dedicated platforms at all stations that are served by HSR trains
                                                                                                                     TOTAL SUPP TIME: 288.4'                                                                                                                                               TOTAL SUPP TIME: 35.6'                                   TOTAL SUPP TIME: 35.6'                                   TOTAL SUPP TIME: 16.9'                                  TOTAL SUPP TIME: 12.5'                                         TOTAL SUPP TIME: 0.2'
                                                                                                                         SB 1-stop: +34.4'                                                                                                                                                   SB 1-stop: +5.2', +3.8'                                  SB 1-stop: +5.2', +3.8'                                  SB 1-stop: +3.6', +3.6'                                 SB 1-stop: +2.2', +0.8                                        SB 1-stop: +0.0', +0.0
                                                                                                                        SB Nonstop: +37.7'                                            No HSR                                                 No HSR                                         SB Nonstop: +3.0', +2.1'                                 SB Nonstop: +3.0', +2.1'                                 SB Nonstop: +0.0', +0.0'                                SB Nonstop: +0.0', +0.0'                                       SB Nonstop: +0.0, +0.0
                                                                                                                         NB 1-stop: +34.5'                                                                                                                                                   NB 1-stop: +5.8', +7.5'                                  NB 1-stop: +5.8', +7.5'                                  NB 1-stop: +4.2', +5.1'                                 NB 1-stop: +4.1', +4.2'                                        NB 1-stop: +0.0, +0.0
    51-N HSR             avoid adding supplemental dwell or run-time to HSR trip times                                  NB Nonstop: +37.6                                                                                                                                                   NB Nonstop: +4.0', +4.2'                                 NB Nonstop: +4.0', +4.2'                                 NB Nonstop: +0.0', +0.4'                                NB Nonstop: +1.0', +0.2                                        NB Nonstop: +0.0, +0.2


                                                                                                                           SB 1-stop: 78.7'                                                                                                                                                  SB 1-stop: 50.1', 48.7'                                  SB 1-stop: 49.5', 48.1'                                  SB 1-stop: 47.9', 47.9''                                 SB 1-stop: 46.5', 45.1'                                       SB 1-stop: 44.3', 44.3'
                                                                                                                          SB Nonstop: 78.7'                                                                                                                                                 SB Nonstop: 44.6', 44.0'                                 SB Nonstop: 44.0', 43.1'                                 SB Nonstop: 41.0', 41.0'                                 SB Nonstop: 41.0', 41.0'                                      SB Nonstop: 41.0', 41.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                      No HSR                                                 No HSR
                                                                                                                           NB 1-stop: 78.7'                                                                                                                                                  NB 1-stop: 52.9', 51.1'                                  NB 1-stop: 50.0', 51.7'                                  NB 1-stop: 48.4', 49.3'                                  NB 1-stop: 48.3', 48.4'                                       NB 1-stop: 44.2', 44.2'
                                                                                                                          NB Nonstop: 78.6'                                                                                                                                                 NB Nonstop: 46.1', 46.4'                                 NB Nonstop: 45.2', 45.0'                                 NB Nonstop: 41.0', 41.4'                                 NB Nonstop: 42.0', 41.2'                                      NB Nonstop: 41.0', 41.2'
    53-N HSR             achieve 45 min TTC - San Jose trip time


                         Provide as many trains per hour to all stations during the peak as in the                        schedule based on                                      schedule based on                                     schedule based on                                       schedule based on                                        schedule based on                                        schedule based on                                        schedule based on                                             schedule based on
                                                                                                                          prototype skip stop                                    prototype skip stop                                   prototype skip stop                                     prototype skip stop                                      prototype skip stop                                      prototype skip stop                                      prototype skip stop                                           prototype skip stop
                         prototypical skip stop schedule from the JPB/CAHSR Blended Operations
    16-N Caltrain        Studies


                                                                                                                6 NB and 6 SB train types repeat hourly                6 NB and 6 SB train types repeat hourly               6 NB and 6 SB train types repeat hourly                 6 NB and 6 SB train types repeat hourly                  6 NB and 6 SB train types repeat hourly                  6 NB and 6 SB train types repeat hourly                  6 NB and 6 SB train types repeat hourly                       6 NB and 6 SB train types repeat hourly


    17-N Caltrain        operate a clock-face/regular interval service
                                                                                                                  SB 22nd St: 6 - 12 - 12 - 6 - 12 - 12                  SB 22nd St: 14 - 8 - 10 - 11 - 10 - 8                 SB 22nd St: 8 - 14 - 7 - 10 - 11 - 10                   SB 22nd St: 8 - 17 - 6- 10 - 12 - 7                      SB 22nd St: 8 - 17 - 5- 11 - 12 - 7                       SB 22nd St: 23 - 3 - 4 - 22 - 5 - 3                    SB 22nd St: 14 - 3 - 15 - 10 - 7 - 11                         SB 22nd St: 10 - 16 - 3 - 13 - 13 - 5
                                                                                                                 SB Palo Alto: 6 - 12 - 12 - 6 - 12 - 12                 SB Palo Alto: 8 - 8 - 14 - 8 - 7 - 15                 SB Palo Alto: 15 - 7 - 8 - 15 - 8 - 7                   SB Palo Alto: 15 - 10- 7- 14 - 9 - 5                     SB Palo Alto: 15 - 10- 7- 14 - 9 - 5                    SB Palo Alto: 13 - 5 - 12 - 13 - 5 - 12                  SB Palo Alto: 11 - 6 - 13 - 11 - 5 - 14                       SB Palo Alto: 16 - 10 - 4 - 16 - 10 - 4
                                                                                                                 SB San Jose: 6 - 12 - 12 - 6 - 12 - 12                 SB San Jose: 11 - 9 - 10 - 11 - 8 - 11                 SB San Jose: 11 - 11 -9 -10 -11 - 8                    SB San Jose: 10 - 14 - 8 - 9 - 13 - 6                    SB San Jose: 10 - 14 - 8 - 9 - 13 - 6                     SB San Jose: 17 - 6 - 8 - 16 - 6 - 7                     SB San Jose: 15 - 7 8 - 15 - 6 - 9                           SB San Jose: 11 - 14 - 5 - 11 - 14 - 5
                                                                                                                 NB Palo Alto: 12 - 13 - 5 - 12 - 13 - 5                NB Palo Alto: 9 - 7 - 13 - 10 - 9 - 12                 NB Palo Alto: 12 - 9 - 8 - 13 - 9 - 9                  NB Palo Alto: 10 - 10 - 8 - 12 - 10 - 10                 NB Palo Alto: 10 - 9 - 11 - 10 - 10 - 10                 NB Palo Alto: 12 - 3 - 15 - 12 - 3 - 15                  NB Palo Alto: 15 - 10 - 4 - 17 - 9 - 5                        NB Palo Alto: 10 - 5 - 14 - 12 - 5 - 16
    20-N Caltrain        avoid bunched train service
                                                                                                                       4th&King/Townsend - SJ                                4th&King/Townsend - SJ                                 4th&King/Townsend - SJ                                  4th&King/Townsend - SJ                                   4th&King/Townsend - SJ                                   4th&King/Townsend - SJ                                  4th&King/Townsend - SJ                                         4th&King/Townsend - SJ
                                                                                                                       417: 75.8'   416: 76.0'                               417: 59.5'   416: 63.5'                                417: 60.2'   416: 64.2'                                 417: 62.1'   416: 63.4'                                  417: 61.2'   416: 62.5'                                  417: 63.8'   416: 62.5'                                 417: 61.7'   416: 58.5'                                         417: 57.6' 416: 58.5'
                                                                                                                       419: 75.9'   418: 75.8'                               419: 63.2'   418: 61.3'                                419: 64.0'   418: 62.2'                                 419: 64.8'   418: 62.7'                                  419: 63.9'   418: 61.7'                                  419: 68.2'   418: 62.7'                                 419: 59.0'   418: 61.1'                                        419: 59.0'   418: 58.9'
                                                                                                                       421: 75.9'   420: 76.0'                               421: 60.8'   420: 65.1'                                421: 61.5'   420: 65.4'                                 421: 61.9'   420: 66.4'                                  421: 61.1'   420: 65.2'                                  421: 62.1'   420: 69.8'                                 421: 60.7'   420: 62.8'                                         421: 57.2' 420: 59.6'
                         Uniform trip times for all services with end-to-end trip times of approximately 55-           423:75.8'   422: 75.9'                                423: 61.0'   422: 63.4'                                423: 61.8'   422: 64.3'                                 423: 63.9'   422: 64.1'                                  423: 62.9'   422: 63.2'                                  423: 64.4'   422: 64.2'                                 423: 63.9'   422: 59.3'                                         423: 59.2'  422: 58.3'
                         65 minutes between San Jose and 4th & King and up to 70 minute scheduled                      425: 75.9'   424: 75.8'                               425: 61.9'   424: 61.3'                                425: 62.6'   424: 62.2'                                 425: 62.8'   424: 62.7'                                  425: 61.6'   424: 61.7'                                  425: 68.5'   424: 62.7'                                 425: 57.8'   424: 61.0'                                         425: 57.8'  424: 58.9'
                                                                                                                       427: 75.9'   426: 75.9'                               427: 62.2'   426: 63.3'                                427: 63.0'   426: 64.0'                                 427: 63.6'   426: 63.2'                                  427: 62.7'   426: 62.1'                                  427: 62.7'   426: 68.7'                                 427: 62.5'   426: 62.7'                                         427: 58.0'  426: 59.7'
    21-N Caltrain        trip time for trains terminating at TTC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         417: +6.5' Hillsdale
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         418: +3.4' Hillsdale                                 417: +1.4' San Carlos, +1.0' Menlo Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       420: +3.6' Redwood City                                       418: +1.2' Redwood City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          417: +7.1' Hillsdale, +1.5' Millbrae
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       421: +4.4' Redwood City                                       420: +0.4' Redwood City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 416: +4.0' Hillsdale
                                                                                                                          no additional dwell                                    no additional dwell                                   no additional dwell                                     426: +4.5 Bayshore                                       426: +4.5 Bayshore                                                                                               422: +1.0' Hillsdale                                        421: +0.9' Redwood City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                419: +4.3' Bayshore
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         423: +7.0' Hillsdale                                 423: +1.3' San Carlos, +1.0 Menlo Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                426: +4.5' Bayshore
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         424: +3.3' Hillsdale                                        424: +1.2 Redwood City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       426: +5.1' Redwood City                                       426: +2.1' Redwood City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       427: +4.5' Redwood City
    22-N Caltrain        avoid dwelling at any intermediate station for longer than the minium dwell
                                                                                                                      417: +20.6'      416: +17.5'                                                                                                                                           417: +6.0'     416: +4.0'                                417: +6.0'     416: +4.0'                              417: +0.0'        416: +0.0'                             417: +0.0'        416: +0.0'                                   417: +0.0'       416: +0.0'
                                                                                                                      419: +16.9'      418: +18.1'                                                                                                                                            419: +4.9'     418: 4.0'                                 419: +4.9'     418: 4.0'                              419: +4.9'        418: +5.0'                             419: +0.0'        418: +0.0'                                   419: +0.0'       418: +0.0'
                                                                                                                       421: +19.6'      420: +16.8'                                                                                                                                           421: +4.8'     420: +6.0'                                421: +4.8'     420: +6.0'                              421: +5.8'       420: +10.6'                             421: +0.0'        420: +0.0'                                   421: +0.0'       420: +0.0'
                                                                                                                                                                             no supplemental run-time                               no supplemental run-time
                                                                                                                       423: +18.9'     422: +17.6'                                                                                                                                            423: +6.0'    422: +4.9'                                 423: +6.0'    422: +4.9'                               423: +7.5'       422: +5.9'                             423: +0.0'        422: +0.0'                                    423: +0.0'      422: +0.0'
                                                                                                                      425: +18.1'      424: +18.1'                                                                                                                                           425: +3.8'     424: +4.0'                                425: +3.8'     424: +4.0'                              425: +10.7'        424: +5.0'                            425: +0.0'        424: +0.0'                                   425: +0.0'       424: +0.0'
                                                                                                                       427: +17.9'      426: +18.3'                                                                                                                                            427: +4.7'     426: +0'                                  427: +4.7'     426: +0'                               427: +4.7'        426: +6.6'                             427: +0.0'        426: +0.0'                                   427: +0.0'       426: +0.0'
    50-N Caltrain        avoid adding supplemental run-time to Caltrain trip times
                                                                                                                     TOTAL SUPP TIME: 218.4'                                                                                                                                               TOTAL SUPP TIME: 57.6'                                   TOTAL SUPP TIME: 57.6'                                   TOTAL SUPP TIME: 88.1'                                   TOTAL SUPP TIME: 38.8'                                        TOTAL SUPP TIME: 10.5'
                                                                                                                      417: +20.6' 416: +17.5'                                                                                                                                               417: +6.0' 416: +4.0'                                    417: +6.0' 416: +4.0'                                    417: +8.6' 416: +4.0'                                    417: +6.5'  416: +0.0'                                        417: +2.4'  416: +0.0'
                                                                                                                      419: +16.9' 418: +18.1'                                                                                                                                               419: +4.9' 418: +4.0'                                    419: +4.9' 418: +4.0'                                    419: +9.2' 418: +5.0'                                    419: +0.0'  418: +3.4'                                        419: +0.0'  418: +1.2'
                                                                                                                       421: +19.6' 420: +16.8'                                 no supplemental time                                   no supplemental time                                   421: +4.8' 420: +6.0'                                    421: +4.8' 420: +6.0'                                   421: +5.8' 420: +10.6'                                    421: +4.4'  420: +3.6'                                        421: +0.9'  420: +0.4'
                                                                                                                       423: +18.9' 422: +17.6'                                                                                                                                               423: +6.0' 422: +4.9'                                    423: +6.0' 422: +4.9'                                   423: +7.5' 422: +5.9'                                    423: +7.0'  422: +1.0'                                        423: +2.3'   422: +0.0'
                                                                                                                      425: +18.1'  424: +18.1'                                                                                                                                              425: +3.8'  424: +4.0'                                   425: +3.8'  424: +4.0'                                  425: +10.7'  424: +5.0'                                   425: +0.0'  424: +3.3'                                        425: +0.0'  424: +1.2'
                                                                                                                       427: +17.9' 426: +18.3'                                                                                                                                               427: +4.7' 426: +4.5'                                    427: +4.7' 426: +4.5'                                   427: +4.7' 426: +11.1'                                    427: +4.5'  426: +5.1'                                        427: +0.0'  426: +2.1'
    52-N Caltrain     avoid adding supplemental dwell or run-time to Caltrain trip times
                      use TTC as HSR terminal station and TTC and 4th/King as Caltrain terminal
                                                                                                                     6 TPH TTC, 4 TPH 4th/King                                        No HSR                                                 No HSR                                       6 TPH TTC, 4 TPH 4th/King                                6 TPH TTC, 4 TPH 4th/King                                6 TPH TTC, 4 TPH 4th/King                                6 TPH TTC, 4 TPH 4th/King                                     6 TPH TTC, 4 TPH 4th/King
    23-N Caltrain/HSR station
                                                                                      RAIL       MEETING
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/21/2018 6:56 AM
                                                                                  ✔
                                                                                          03/21/2018
                                                                                      Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                                2
Carnahan, David

From:                            Cedric de La Beaujardiere <cedric.bike@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Wednesday, March 21, 2018 6:22 AM
To:                              Council, City
Cc:                              Mello, Joshuah; Transportation
Subject:                         Reasons to Include Rail on Viaduct for Connecting Palo Alto



Honorable Council Members,

I am writing today in support of including raised railway viaducts in the list of ideas for achieving grade
separation of our train street crossings. We've spent considerable effort investigating the multi billion dollar
option of trenching and tunneling, and yet it appears that viaducts may have been prematurely screened out
without given them a fair shake.
As Staff made clear at the last rail committee meeting on Feb 21, you have the authority to and I
strongly urge you to direct staff to include viaducts in the initial evaluation and screening
process, and among the 4-8 Alternatives to be recommended for Study in June.

The benefits for viaducts include:

      viaducts are much more affordable than the trenching and tunneling options,
      viaducts are more pleasant than riding in a trench or tunnel for the tens of thousands of daily train
       riders,
      viaducts do not require reconfiguration of the roadways,
      viaducts' open structure improve sight-lines at intersections
      viaducts allow for bicycle and pedestrian travel underneath them between the pillars, both:
           o at the road crossings where they free bikes and peds from being stuck in close and dangerous
               confines with the auto traffic ala Embarcadero and University underpasses
           o parallel to Alma, bikes and peds can have safe and attractive landscaped paths, for as far
               as the viaducts are raised
      viaducts are more compact than raising rail on berms
      viaducts are more attractive than raising rail on vertical walls




                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/21/2018 6:56 AM




Above, I provide a quick artists rendition of a viaduct rail structure crossing Charleston. Note the landscaping
below the viaduct and the happy cyclist passing safely underneath away from auto traffic. This pictured rail
viaduct cross-section includes multiple noise mitigation strategies which are discussed in the subsequent links to
railway noise mitigation factsheets, including:

      floating slab tracks which isolate the structure from the vibration of the passing trains (sound reduction
       of 8-10db),
      under-walkway absorptive plenums,
      a short soundwall at the wheel level between the tracks
      taller soundwalls on either side (sound reduction of ~10db for the height shown)
      cantilevered tops of the walls help deflect sound and are equivalent to an additional 3' of wall height in
       noise reduction.

Not shown but I'd recommend for inclusion:

      transparent soundwalls at the level of the train windows up to the height of the train for these additional
       benefits:
           o greater sound reduction possibly up to ~5db,
           o reduced noise sensitivity for being able to see the source of the sound (see references below),
           o and better views for the passengers than a blank wall
      possibly an enclosed top or mesh top or solar panels at top to prevent birds from entering the space
      possibly UV reflective patterning to make the transparent soundwalls visible to birds and prevent
       birds from striking them
      possibly including planting on the exterior of the viaduct to provide visual screening and additional
       sound absorption.

                                                        2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/21/2018 6:56 AM
While dropping a train into a trench reduces noise by 2-5db, and raising rail above grade increases the noise up
to 10db, in particular the noise propagation for those in the line of sight, as I noted above and in more detail
below there are numerous effective strategies for reducing noise and vibration emissions on the order of at least
20db from the numbers I've found and listed here. In addition, modern high speed trains are said to be about
10db quieter than the early generations of high speed trains such as the original TGV in France. For
comparison, every 10db of noise reduction equates to a halving of the noise perceived.

At the bottom of this email I include some excerpts from a set of noise mitigation fact sheets that were prepared
in 2012 for a high speed rail project in England.

Viaducts are a feasible strategy, there is room to make the grade, as it were: at a 1% grade, to reach
a clearance height of 15.5' above the road to the underside of the viaduct structure would require a
distance of 1550'. There is enough room to make that elevation around Charleston, Meadow, and
Churchill. Palo Alto Avenue is just about that distance from the station, so a slightly greater grade
may be needed, or depress the road slightly and/or raise the station platforms slightly. In the maps
below, probably too small to really see, the black lines are ~1550' North of Meadow, and South of
Charleston, Churchill, and Palo Alto Ave.




                                                        3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/21/2018 6:56 AM




                                                     4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/21/2018 6:56 AM




Some notes on noise mitigation (emphasis added by Cedric):


Railway noise mitigation factsheet 06: Viaducts and bridges
http://www.51m.co.uk/wp-content/uploads/2013/08/Factsheet-06-nov-2012-Viaducts-Bridges.pdf

"Developments in the design of rail fasteners have been shown to provide a noise level reduction of
about 8 to 10dB"

"The benefits of mitigation strategies for bridges/viaducts can be summarised as follows:

      Resilient rail fasteners are a cost-effective solution to noise and vibration.
      Floating slab tracks can be adapted for many different rail situations and generally do not require much
       maintenance and are designed for high longevity.


The disbenefits of mitigation strategies for bridges/viaducts can be summarised as follows:

      Some mitigation strategies can increase the static mass of the bridge construction, which then requires
       additional measures of reinforcement to be installed.
      There are few examples of these noise mitigation measures for structures on high speed rail although the
       floating slab tracks have been identified as being suitable for high speed trains.


                                                       5
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/21/2018 6:56 AM
     There may be potentially adverse visual impacts from the presence of noise barriers on viaducts;
       considerable care would have to be taken during the design process to overcome these impacts."



Railway noise mitigation factsheet 02: Full-height noise barriers
http://www.51m.co.uk/wp-content/uploads/2013/08/Factsheet-02-nov-2012-Full-Height-Noise-Barriers.pdf

"The effectiveness of the noise barrier in mitigating these different noise sources is dependent upon the
height of the barrier. For trains travelling at high speeds (in excess of 340 km/h), aerodynamic noise sources
will be the primary source of noise disturbance. Aerodynamic sources can be distributed over the full height of
the train...Literature suggests that pantograph noise is most effectively treated directly at the source, e.g. by
screening the pantograph directly on the rolling stock itself"

"Noise barriers reduce noise levels at a receiver behind the barrier by obstructing the direct transmission of
airborne sound emanating from the source in front of the barrier (in this case, rail traffic). Sound waves are
either reflected back from the barrier, absorbed by the barrier, transmitted through it or are diffracted over the
top of the barrier (see Figure 2)."

"The level of mitigation offered will also be affected by the position of the barrier relative to the track and the
local topography. The closer a barrier is located to the source, the greater the degree of screening that can
be achieved."
...
"The use of sound absorptive noise barriers will help to reduce the impact of sound waves reflected between the
body of the train and the noise barrier.

Transparent sections can sometimes be included to break up the visual impact of the barriers. It has been
reported (Watts et al., 1999d) that human sensitivity to noise appears to be greater when the source of noise
cannot be seen; in principle therefore transparent barriers may provide greater perceived sound insulation than
opaque barriers of the same height, although it is not known if this has been evaluated in detail. There are
further benefits to transparent screens in that there is less reduction in light levels and residents can see across
the railway (although some individuals may prefer an obscured view). Downsides to transparent barriers include
the need for regular cleaning and bird impact.

Vegetative barriers are those made of living vegetation; however these need regular irrigation and
maintenance. Alternatively it may be possible to use the barrier itself as a support structure for vegetation such
as climbing plants, etc. to mask the appearance of the noise barrier from the residential side; concrete barriers
are particularly well suited for this purpose. However, regular maintenance of the plants will be required to
control growth and maintain an appropriate visual aesthetic."
...

A 2012 European Commission report (Clausen et al., 2012) suggests typical levels of noise reduction
are, on average ... of the order of 10 dB(A) for 2 m high barriers and 15 dB(A) for 3-4 m high
barriers."


additional documents in this set:

http://www.51m.co.uk/wp-content/uploads/2013/08/Factsheet-01-nov-2012-Railway-Noise-Overview.pdf

                                                          6
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/21/2018 6:56 AM
http://www.51m.co.uk/wp-content/uploads/2013/08/Factsheet-02-nov-2012-Full-Height-Noise-Barriers.pdf
http://www.51m.co.uk/wp-content/uploads/2013/08/Factsheet-03-nov-2012-Low-Height-Noise-Barriers.pdf
http://www.51m.co.uk/wp-content/uploads/2013/08/Factsheet-04-nov-2012-Railway-Tunnels-Portals.pdf
http://www.51m.co.uk/wp-content/uploads/2013/08/Factsheet-05-nov-2012-Earth-Berms-And-Cuttings.pdf
http://www.51m.co.uk/wp-content/uploads/2013/08/Factsheet-06-nov-2012-Viaducts-Bridges.pdf




Thank you for your time and service,
Cedric de La Beaujardiere
Palo Alto resident, bicyclist. and daily train rider most of these past 20 years




                                                           7
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 9:55 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Marianne Mueller <mrm@sonic.net>
Sent:                             Thursday, March 15, 2018 7:36 PM
To:                               Council, City
Subject:                          affordable housing overlay ( ptc recommendation)


please put the affordable housing overlay on the council agenda, I support the work of Palo alto forward in advancing
this initiative and as they point out we must zone for and budget for affordable housing, not only desire it in the
abstract.thank you, Marianne mueller 333 Kingsley ave. paloalto 94301 mrm@sonic.net




                                                           1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 9:44 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Mark Michael <mark_d_michael@yahoo.com>
Sent:                         Thursday, March 15, 2018 10:35 AM
To:                           Council, City
Cc:                           Eric Rosenblum; Sandra Slater; Stephen Levy; Kniss, Liz (external)
Subject:                      Affordable Housing Overlay District



Dear Mayor and Members of Council, I look forward to your prompt action and debate regarding the
proposed ordinance to create an Affordable Housing Overlay District. The split vote at the PTC and
majority preference for Planned Community Zoning highlights the controversy and potential confusion
about the challenge for our community to achieve the housing goals set for in the Comprehensive
Plan. The next step by Council should include clarifying the policies and related actions appropriate
to making progress on these goals. Creation of an Overlay District for Affordable Housing is one
such policy and action. Respectfully submitted \Mark Michael




                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 9:40 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Adriana Anca Suvaiala <anca11@comcast.net>
Sent:                             Wednesday, March 14, 2018 5:15 PM
To:                               Planning Commission
Cc:                               Council, City
Subject:                          Affordable Housing regulations


Dear City Commissioners and City Councilors,

I believe Affordable Housing is important for our community, and our generation has an obligation to try to pay forward
the opportunities that were afforded to us.
Please do not make building Affordable Housing even harder than it already is and do not give priority to cars and
parking lots over people.

Looking forward to your contribution in building more affordable housing.

Sincerely,
Adriana Suvaiala




                                                           1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 10:01 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                               Joy Wright <joy0603@gmail.com>
Sent:                               Friday, March 16, 2018 12:57 PM
To:                                 Council, City
Subject:                            Agendize Affordable Housing


To whom it may concern,
I would like to add my voice to all the other Palo Alto parents with special needs to please agendize our request for
affordable housing for our children. It is really disappointing that you have so little regard for the needs for this group of
people in our community. If Mountainview can provide affordable housing for its special needs residents than Palo Alto
should do likewise. Please agendize affordable housing at your next meeting.
Thanks
Joy & Peter

Sent from my iPhone




                                                              1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 9:56 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Marianne Mueller <mrm@sonic.net>
Sent:                              Thursday, March 15, 2018 8:54 PM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           amend


dear city council members, aunt Steph, I would like to amend my previous better after spending some time reading the
comments on the Palo alto online website I think I am poorly informed about the issue and I have to say the parking
issuesand traffic issues are significant, having lived through the residential parking permit history and now benefiting
from the new parking zoning areas, it is certainly true that development without adequate parking leads to neighboring
streets being filled with cars up and downit seems logical thatone parking space per home or employee as tge case may
be should be a requirement,I agree with who suggest we call places homes and not units, and although I wish we could
find a way to have 20 more Buena Vistas in our community, I think that is highly unlikely, I do think old fashionedcottage
clusters that areclustersgetoursprinkled throughout Palo Alto are a good way to build high density affordable housing
and I suggest we find a way to encourage that sort of development I am a happy resident I'm such a cottage cluster at
thekingsley park park homeowners association aBirge Clark development from 1940, I have long fuck this particular
development would serve as a wonderful blueprint for similar higher density development and depending on
construction could be built as affordable housing, each home here does have a single car garage, to me it is almost
miraculous how 10 houses and ten 10 single car garage are built on this amount of land, and an analysis of the cottage
clusters would be a eightvaluable guide for how to effectively build wonderful housing for many people without needing
as much land as is typically assume thank you for listening and I will take my hobby horse over to the discussion section
on Palo alto online. I apologize for my previous poorly thought out letter.




                                                            1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/21/2018 8:13 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Mark Grossman <grossman_mark@hotmail.com>
Sent:                         Tuesday, March 20, 2018 7:15 PM
To:                           Council, City
Cc:                           ben@bikesiliconvalley.org
Subject:                      Bicycle infrastructure


Dear Council Members -

I have been a resident of Old PA for over 25 years. As you probably know, and as I have seen firsthand,
the city prides itself on its bicycle friendliness. It's part of its brand. The plans for improving bike
infrastructure should go forward. These are clearly in line with the overall city goals, especially for
sustainability, and are a FAR better use of scarce resources than building new parking garages!

thank you,
Mark Grossman and Lauren Janov
2063 Byron St.




                                                     1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 10:09 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Rosanna Lee <rkslee@gmail.com>
Sent:                             Sunday, March 18, 2018 10:46 AM
To:                               Council, City
Subject:                          Bike lane projects


My family have lived at this address since 1988. I bike 2 to 3 times a week, from East Meadow to Downtown Palo
Alto or to Mountain View. My kids used to bike to their schools. I felt safe for them and myself. I was very pleased
when East Meadow was converted to a bike-safe street many years ago, up until the recent changes at Ross and
East Meadow.

I see the recent addition of the traffic circle at East Meadow and Ross alarming. I no longer feel safe biking down
East Meadow. The design of the circle pushes bike traffic into car traffic. It is a ridiculous design and needlessly
expensive. What's wrong with the old East Meadow? As a long time resident of this street, I'm dismayed to learn
that you intend to put even more circles like this, one very close to my house.

Please stop this project and consider its impact on the safety of the adult and children cyclists, as well as the
considerable cost such designs must incur. The original street was nice and wide -- cars and bikes can share the
road. That is no longer the case. I am all for bike safety but this project is overdesigned and counter to bike safety.

Sincerely,

-Rosanna Lee

914 East Meadow Drive
Palo Alto, CA
94303




                                                           1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 4:23 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Janet St Peter <jst.pete@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Monday, March 19, 2018 3:36 PM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        California Avenue Underpass



Dear City Council,

I feel unsafe walking in the California Avenue underpass since the bike barriers have been opened. Bicyclist can
now ride full-speed-ahead the entire length of the underpass, passing too close to pedestrians.



Something needs to change before a pedestrian is injured.



Sincerely,

Jan St. Peter

2139 High St.




                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 9:43 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Mary Dimit <marydimit@mindspring.com>
Sent:                          Thursday, March 15, 2018 1:21 AM
To:                            Architectural Review Board; Council, City
Cc:                            Clerk, City
Subject:                       Cell towers in residential neighborhoods



To the ARB & City Council:

We request that you deny approval to the Verizon's cell towers as proposed. Verizon's proposed actions to
install these cell towers would adversely affect the quality of life in our residential neighborhoods.

      Please require that all cell tower equipment except the antennas be located completely underground and
       also comply with our local noise ordinances.
      In addition, locate any installations as far away from any residences as possible.

We do not want more boxes of large noisy and unsightly commercial equipment in our residential
neighborhoods than we already have -- telephone & cable installations are currently located in above-ground
boxes in the immediate blocks around us.

Thank you,
Mary Dimit
President, VCA HOA Board
University Ave. between Fulton & Guinda Streets




                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/21/2018 12:46 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Neilson Buchanan <cnsbuchanan@yahoo.com>
Sent:                         Wednesday, March 21, 2018 9:07 AM
To:                           Council, City
Cc:                           Keene, James; Perez, Lalo
Subject:                      citizen survey



Please ask citizen opinion about SALT impact upon their decision making

Neilson Buchanan
155 Bryant Street
Palo Alto, CA 94301

650 329-0484
650 537-9611 cell
cnsbuchanan@yahoo.com




                                                     1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 9:45 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Mark Petersen-Perez <bayareafreepress@gmail.com>
Sent:                          Thursday, March 15, 2018 11:28 AM
To:                            Aram James
Cc:                            sdremann@paweekly.com; bjohnson@embarcaderomediagroup.com; Binder, Andrew;
                               Council, City; bwelch@dao.sccgov.org; Watson, Ron; Jonsen, Robert; Perron, Zachary;
                               jrosen@da.sccgov.org; Bullerjahn, Rich; Gary.Goodman@pdo.sccgov.org;
                               gsheyner@paweekly.com; Scharff, Greg; swagstaffe@smcgov.org;
                               dprice@padailypost.com; allison@padailypost.com; HRC;
                               acisneros@CApublicrecordslaw.com; Scheff, Lisa; Stump, Molly;
                               molly.o'neal@pdo.sccgov.org; Keith, Claudia; citycouncil@menlopark.org;
                               cindy.chavez@bos.sccgov.org; bjohnson@paweekly.com; Cullen, Charles
Subject:                       Commission questions police-video transparency policy Re: Got your message


Thank you Aram. This illustrates the biases of subconscious racial motivated behavior of Ms. Dremann’s non-
fact finding reporting... It’s outright fake news and shameful. Thanks for setting the record straight...

https://www.paloaltoonline.com/news/2018/03/13/commission-questions-police-video-transparency-policy

Mark Petersen-Perez
Editor: Bay Area Free Press
Ticuantepe, Nicaragua 🇳🇮

Sent from my iPad


        On Mar 15, 2018, at 11:05 AM, Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com> wrote:


        Hi Mark,
        Yes, you should have been given credit for suggesting defense attorney should be allowed to
        review the PAPD body-worn camera policy. I wasn’t give credit for that comment, nor should I
        have been. It was one of the Commission members who Sue D., reports discussed your idea.
        Check out the article and I think you will see that’s how it unfolded.
        Best, aram


        Sent from my iPhone




                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 10:06 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Alison McNall <amcnall7@gmail.com>
Sent:                          Saturday, March 17, 2018 1:08 PM
To:                            Council, City
Subject:                       Cool Block



I want to let you know what a great program Cool Block has been for our family. We are reducing our carbon
footprint, and have a great relationship with our new found neighbors. We have learnt so much from doing the
program.
Alison and Rod McNall
1326 Byron Street




                                                      1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 4:21 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Suzanne Keehn <dskeehn@pacbell.net>
Sent:                          Monday, March 19, 2018 2:27 PM
To:                            Council, City
Subject:                       Ethical Conflict



To City Council Members

From what I have read and heard, it seems that Commissioner Alcheck has had a conflict of
interest . Before his application was passed to make the 'car ports' that certainly looks like a garage,
he
had the doors installed which finished the garages. Whether this was 'legal' is
questionable. However,
to me it is not questionable that he has used his influence to circumvent the city code.

Comment from Fred Balin follows:

"However it is still important that the matter related to the code revision be handled properly, as well
as that city investigate and report how they allowed him to build what was an attached garage without
a door rather than a carport, after he was able to use a loophole in the code to allow him a carport in
the front where no attached garage was allowed."

"In my formal complaint filed with the city at the meeting on the 5th, I wrote that Commissioner
Alcheck’s presence at the Nov 29, 2017 planning commission meeting constituted a conflict of
interest and the related items before the council “be tabled until it is assured that it receives a fair
hearing by disinterested members of the Planning and Transportation Commission not including
Commissioner Alcheck.”

I fully agree with Fred's comments.

 Alcheck's attitude on the Planning Commission, late, rude etc., which is no way for a City official to
conduct business, should be questioned.
We need to have a rule that anyone with business projects in Palo Alto, should not be appointed to a
Commission or be able to run for
City Council. I agree with others that he needs to resign.

Sincerely,
Suzanne Keehn
4076 Orme St.
94306




                                                      1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 10:02 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Friday, March 16, 2018 7:48 PM
To:                              Council, City; citycouncil@menlopark.org; council@redwoodcity.org;
                                 myraw@smcba.org; swagstaffe@smcgov.org; gkirby@redwoodcity.org;
                                 paloaltofreepress@gmail.com; donald.larkin@morganhill.ca.gov; Jonsen, Robert;
                                 Cullen, Charles; edwinfrey@hotmail.com; jrosen@da.sccgov.org;
                                 molly.o'neal@pdo.sccgov.org; miguel.rodriguez@pdo.sccgov.org; bos@smcgov.org;
                                 hayden@yourcriminaldefender.com; michael.gennaco@oirgroup.com; Kilpatrick, Brad;
                                 Lee, Craig; Kan, Michael
Subject:                         Excerpt from PA online March 13, 2018 -snitches should be recorded



James, the police watchdog, told commissioners that some camera policies allow police to turn off their cameras
when interviewing informants.

"The rationale often given is that police informants will be reluctant to talk with police out of fear of exposure if
they are recorded. One of the leading causes of wrongful convictions is the false testimony of police informants.
The better policy is to require that conversations between police and informants should be recorded, but not
released to the defense or prosecution without appropriate protective orders," he said.

City policy does not detail whether to record informants.


Sent from my iPhone




                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/21/2018 8:12 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Ben Pacho <ben@bikesiliconvalley.org>
Sent:                           Tuesday, March 20, 2018 5:41 PM
To:                             Council, City; Mello, Joshuah
Cc:                             Emma Shlaes; Shiloh Ballard
Subject:                        3/20 Finance Committee Meeting - Infrastructure Budget
Attachments:                    180320 PA-SVBC Support for Bike Projects .pdf



Dear Mayor Scharff and City Council Members,

As the Finance Committee meets tonight to discuss options for mitigating the gap in its infrastructure budget,
I am writing to ask for your support in funding the three City of Palo Alto Transportation Plan projects, as
prioritized in the Council Infrastructure Plan:

1) The Charleston-Arastradero Corridor Project
2) The Bike Boulevard projects
3) The Highway 101 Pedestrian/Bicycle Bridge

We thank City Council for their steadfast leadership in bringing these projects to fruition, and further encourage
their continued investment and implementation in the days ahead. We also look forward to working with you in
achieving the ambitious goals as set out in the City's Comprehensive and Climate Action Plans. Kindly find
attached our support letter, and feel free to reach out to us if you have any questions.



Best regards,
Ben Pacho

Santa Clara County Advocate
Silicon Valley Bicycle Coalition
96 N. Third Street, Suite 375
PO Box 1927
San Jose, CA 95109
Office: 408-287-7259 Ext. 230
http://bikesiliconvalley.org




                                                        1
                                 March 20, 2018

96 N. Third Street, Suite 375
Post Office Box 1927             Honorable Mayor Greg Scharff and
San Jose, CA 95109               Members of the Palo Alto City Council

Tel   408.287.7259               RE: Infrastructure Budget
Fax   408.213.7559
                                 Dear Mayor Scharff and Members of the Palo Alto City Council:
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                                 I am writing on behalf of Silicon Valley Bicycle Coalition (SVBC), a nonprofit working to create a
Amie Ashton                      healthy community, environment, and economy through bicycling for people who live, work, or
Phil Brotherton
                                 play in Santa Clara and San Mateo Counties. SVBC supports the Council Infrastructure Plan to
Gary Brustin, Esq.
Ken Chin                         prioritize funding of the Bicycle & Pedestrian Plan, Charleston-Arastradero Corridor Project, and
Ian Dewar                        the Highway 101 Pedestrian/Bicycle Bridge. We also support funding for the Transportation
Poncho Guevara                   Management Association (TMA).
Peter Ingram
James Lucas                      Collectively, these three Transportation Plan projects—in addition to TMA efforts—affirm Palo
Daina Lujan                      Alto’s reputation as a trailblazer in Santa Clara County, encompassing a bold vision for the built
Jim Parker                       environment where people of all ages and abilities feel safe and comfortable biking around their
Alyssa Plicka
                                 community. This is reflected in the City’s recent adoption of the Comprehensive and Climate
Jeff Selzer
Lisa Sinizer                     Action Plans (S/CAP), which have put forward tangible solutions to encourage multimodal
Cheryl Smith                     transportation and sustainable growth (Transportation Element/Rethinking Mobility). Therefore,
                                 we urge you to continue investing in these three core projects that will help realize our common
ADVISORY BOARD                   cause in seeing a thriving and resilient community.
Andrew J. Ball
Partner                                §    The Bike Boulevard projects fulfill the City’s vision of creating a low-stress network of
Ball + Winter                    neighborhood bicycle routes, which are increasingly being utilized for transportation by people of
                                 all ages and skill levels. Additionally, these projects benefit people walking by creating a calmer
Carl Guardino
President and CEO                traffic environment and making the streets safer.
Silicon Valley Leadership              §    The Charleston-Arastradero Corridor Project supports the growing usage of this corridor
Group                            by students who bike to the 11 surrounding public and private K-12 schools. In addition to creating
                                 a safe route to school, the Project will function as an important biking node for regional trips
Richard Lowenthal                originating from cities south of Palo Alto to its extensive bike boulevard network.
Founder and CTO
                                       §    The Highway 101 Pedestrian/Bicycle Bridge Project serves as an important linkage
ChargePoint
                                 between the built and natural environments, connecting folks over the major barrier of Highway
Erica Rogers                     101 from bustling job centers to regional trails and comfortable bike facilities.
President and CEO                      §    The Palo Alto Transportation Management Association (TMA) has demonstrated
Silk Road Medical                promise toward achieving its mandate of reducing solo car trips in the downtown area. Through its
                                 subsidized-transit and carpooling programs, downtown workers are increasingly using other modes
Rick Wallace
                                 of transportation to get to work; this furthers City goals of reducing congestion, costs, and GHG
President and CEO
KLA-Tencor                       emissions. We fully support funding/expanding TMA’s mandate to include bike projects over other
                                 projects that may not help the City meet its mobility/sustainability goals.
Tom Werner
President and CEO                We commend Council for their dedication, since for many years, City of Palo Alto has been hard at
SunPower Corp.                   work building community and Council consensus in support of these projects. As City Council
                                 enters a difficult negotiation over how to close the budget deficit, we thank them for their
                                 leadership thus far, and ask them to continue their support of aligning environmental and budgetary
PRESIDENT AND
                                 stewardship.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Shiloh Ballard
                                 Thank you for your consideration.

                                 Sincerely,
SVBC is a 501(c)(3) non-profit
organization
EIN 77-0338658
                                 Shiloh Ballard
                                 President and Executive Director

http://bikesiliconvalley.org
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/20/2018 4:41 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Suzanne Keehn <dskeehn@pacbell.net>
Sent:                            Monday, March 19, 2018 8:40 PM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         Fw: High-density living worse for environment than suburban sprawl


Interesting study that was sent to me. Suzanne Keehn




Subject: FW: High-density living worse for environment than suburban sprawl

https://www.domain.com.au/news/highdensity-living-worse-for-environment-than-suburban-sprawl-
new-study-shows-20171031-gzcdkw/
EXCERPTS:
Apartment dwellers consume more energy, spend more of their time travelling and use their cars
more,
In terms of embodied energy – the quantities and specifications of materials used in the construction
of both types of housing – high-rise fared even worse. The project found that high-rise buildings
required 49 per cent more embodied energy to construct per square metre, and a stunning 72 per
cent more on a per person basis.
High-rise residents were also found to own more cars (0.6 cars per person as against 0.5 in the
suburb) and travel longer distances in them, 9 per cent further per year.
On the plus side for city centre high-risers, they were discovered to use less water – 73 per cent of
the water used in suburban households, they took fewer separate journeys a year (92 per cent of
those taken in the suburbs), and they walked and cycled nearly three times more.
One factor that may have skewed the findings is that high-rise city residents were generally older [is
this true in the Bay Area?] than those in the suburbs with an average age of 51 compared to 31.8,
and were wealthier.
Full study at: http://www.mdpi.com/2071-1050/9/6/1052




                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/21/2018 8:14 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                               George Jaquette <jaquette@gmail.com>
Sent:                               Tuesday, March 20, 2018 8:45 PM
To:                                 Council, City
Cc:                                 Mello, Joshuah; De Geus, Robert; Greg Tanaka; Kou, Lydia; Adrian Lew; Liza Kolbasov;
                                    Raj Shetty; Maximilian Goetz; Star-Lack, Sylvia; Gaines, Chantal; Shikada, Ed
Subject:                            Fwd: Ross Rd Bike Boulevard
Attachments:                        Conversation with the City of Palo Alto.pdf



Greg, Adrian, Liz, Lydia, Tom, Eric, Adrian, Karen, Gregory & Cory-
739 people have now signed the petition to STOP DIGGING HOLES in Palo Alto streets while we figure out what has been done
to our intersection at East Meadow and Ross Road.
Below is the email exchange I just had with Joshuah Mello. As he confirmed, the traffic changes implemented at East Meadow
Road and Ross Road violate every design consideration published by any authority worldwide.
Before we build ten more of these intersections, let's stop and ask why we are violating every professional design guideline.
Making it harder for emergency vehicles to get to citizens. Putting children at risk every morning.
Stop the insanity. If 739 people are not enough to force you to address the issue, we will get more signatures. But YOU need to
own the result.

George Jaquette

ANGRY parent of two kids who have to bike through the intersection at East Meadow Road and Ross Road twice every day


---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: George Jaquette <jaquette@gmail.com>
Date: Tue, Mar 20, 2018 at 4:19 PM
Subject: Re: Ross Rd Bike Boulevard
To: "Mello, Joshuah" <Joshuah.Mello@cityofpaloalto.org>, "De Geus, Robert"
<Robert.DeGeus@cityofpaloalto.org>
Cc: "Gaines, Chantal" <Chantal.Gaines@cityofpaloalto.org>, "Shikada, Ed" <Ed.Shikada@cityofpaloalto.org>


Josh-
Thanks for sending the attachments. As I indicated last week when we met, the FHWA guidelines are the same
as the NCHRP guidelines and this mini-roundabout does not adhere to the guidelines -- it does not even
remotely follow the guidelines. As we discussed, the implementation at the intersection of East Meadow and
Ross Road measures 64 feet from the northeast corner to the southwest corner. The minimum
recommended ICD for a single-lane roundabout is more than 50% bigger at 105 feet. As I also pointed out, the
bike lane ends abruptly into a sharp curb and by all guidance should slowly taper into a rolled curb.

Quoting from your documents:
     California Highway Design Manual - Roundabouts Section (2015).pdf
     p. 400-37
     In some locations, it may not be practical to build a single lane roundabout that will operate for 10 years.
     Geometric constraints and other conflicts may preclude widening to the ultimate configuration. In
     such cases, other intersection configurations or control strategies addressed in Index 401.5 may need to be
     considered
     p 400-38

                                                               1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/21/2018 8:14 AM
      The inscribed circle diameter for a single lane roundabout generally ranges between 105 feet to 150
      feet to accommodate the California Legal design vehicle and 130 feet to 180 feet to accommodate the
      STAA design vehicle (George's note: STAA design vehicle = largest firetruck spec of 48 feet).

      Roundabouts: An Informational Guide Second Edition
      p 1-12, Exhibit 1-9
      - clearly states that a Mini-Roundabout has an ICD of between 45-90 feet (a roundabout has a minimum
      ICD of 90-feet).
      - clearly states that a Mini-Roundabout has a fully traversable island and splitters
      p 1-12, Exhibit 1-10 shows a diagram of what SHOULD HAVE BEEN BUILT
      p 1-13, Exhibit 1-11 shows a picture of what SHOULD HAVE BEEN BUILT

      p 1-13
      In retrofit applications, mini-roundabouts are relatively inexpensive because they typically require
      minimal additional pavement at the intersecting roads and minor widening at the corner curbs. They
      are mostly recommended when there is insufficient right-of-way to accommodate the design vehicle with
      a traditional single-lane roundabout. Because they are small, mini-roundabouts are perceived as
      pedestrian-friendly with short crossing distances and very low vehicle speeds on approaches and exits. A
      fully traversable central island is provided to accommodate large vehicles and serves one of the
      distinguishing features of a mini-roundabout. The miniroundabout is designed to accommodate passenger
      cars without requiring them to traverse over the central island. The overall design of a mini-roundabout
      should align vehicles at entry to guide drivers to the intended path and minimize running over of the
      central island to the extent possible.
      pp. 2-17,18
      Where bicycle lanes or shoulders are used on approach roadways, they should be terminated in
      advance of roundabouts to merge cyclists into traffic for appropriate circulation with other vehicles. In
      addition, bicycle lanes should not be located within the circulatory roadway of roundabouts as this would
      suggest that bicyclists should ride at the outer edge of the circulatory roadway, which can increase
      crashes with cyclists and both entering and exiting motor vehicles. Because some cyclists may not feel
      comfortable traversing some roundabouts in the same manner as other vehicles, bicycle ramps can be
      provided to allow access to the sidewalk or a shared use path at the roundabout. Bicycle ramps at
      roundabouts have the potential to be confused as pedestrian ramps, particularly for pedestrians who are
      blind or who have low vision. Therefore, bicycle ramps should be reserved for those situations where the
      roundabout complexity or design speed may result in less comfort for some bicyclists. Ramps should not
      normally be used at urban single-lane roundabouts. More details about bicycle design treatments at
      roundabouts can be found in Chapter 6.
      p 6-72
      Where bicycle lanes or shoulders are used on approach roadways, they should be terminated in advance
      of roundabouts. The full-width bicycle lane should normally end at least 100 ft (30 m) before the
      edge of the circulatory roadway. Terminating the bike lane helps remind cyclists that they need to
      merge. An appropriate taper should be provided to narrow the sum of the travel lane and bike lane widths
      down to the appropriate width necessary to achieve desired motor vehicle speeds on the roundabout
      approach. The taper should end prior to the crosswalk at the roundabout to achieve the shortest possible
      pedestrian crossing distance. A taper rate of 7:1 is recommended to accommodate a design speed of 20
      mph (30 km/h), which is appropriate for bicyclists and motor vehicles approaching the roundabout. To
      taper a 5 ft to 6 ft (1.4 m to 1.8 m) wide bicycle lane, a 40 ft (12.2 m) taper is recommended. The
      bicycle lane line should be dotted for 50 to 200 ft (15 m to 60 m) prior to the beginning of the taper and
      dropped entirely through the taper itself. A longer dotted line gives advance notice to cyclists that they
      need to merge, providing more room for them to achieve this maneuver and find an appropriate gap in
      traffic.
                                                       2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/21/2018 8:14 AM



Where traffic design guidelines are not followed, an engineer should provide detailed explanations for such
variances -- this is a matter of public safety, not an art project. I would like to know what regulations you refer
to when you write "engineering judgement is always permitted in the field of roadway design"? If an
engineer uses bad judgment to design a dangerous traffic obstacle, who is responsible for remedying
the dangerous obstacle? Can you provide any justification for the as-built design in this intersection?
Can anyone?

Rob, I'll repeat what I wrote in my first email exchange with you -- I really believe that the City of Palo Alto
should HALT the project completely until someone can explain the reasons for these gross violations of all
published guidelines. I have forwarded you contact information for an expert at the FHWA who has offered to
provide his guidance for free, and I really think we need to get an expert in here before someone gets hurt. But
first -- STOP DIGGING HOLES until we sort this out.

The correct design will likely be cheaper and easier to implement than what Laurentiu Dusciuc designed (if, as
Josh said Friday, he is the engineer who "sealed" this design). The intersection at East Meadow and Ross could
be retrofitted to be completely traversable (or mountable), and the bulbouts can be removed and curbs can be
rolled. Getting this one right is really important if you are going to replicate it ten more times around the city in
coming years.

Thanks-
George

On Tue, Mar 20, 2018 at 11:43 AM, Mello, Joshuah <Joshuah.Mello@cityofpaloalto.org> wrote:
>
> Mr. Jaquette:
>
> Thank you for coming in to meet with us last week. I really appreciate the thought that you have put into this
issue. I also fully understand what is driving you in your campaign, as I have two small children myself.
>
> I promised you a few follow-up items at the meeting. The list of the items and their current status is below:
>
>
> Provide you with collision data in the vicinity of Ross Rd and E Meadow Dr for the period between January
1, 2018 and March 17, 2018. We already have data from January 1, 2013 to December 31, 2017. Status: We
have requested data from the Police Department.
> Provide you with traffic volume data for the intersection of Ross Rd and E Meadow Dr. Status: We are
assembling the data.
> Provide you with the relevant design guidance for roundabouts in Palo Alto. Status: Attached you will find
the roundabout section of the California Highway Design Manual and the NCHRP document that the manual
references. It is our opinion that the roundabout at Ross Rd and E Meadow Dr meets these guidelines, however
engineering judgement is always permitted in the field of roadway design.
> Have the Safe Routes to School team reach out to you and your daughter regarding the development of a
roundabout education curriculum for third and eighth graders. Status: The Safe Routes to School team will be
reaching out to you and your daughter shortly.
> Monitor impacts to Louis Rd in adjacent to Palo Verde Elementary School. Status: The Safe Routes to School
team will continue to coordinate with the school administration and PTA leadership.
>
>
                                                          3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/21/2018 8:14 AM
> Regards,
>
> JOSHUAH D. MELLO, AICP
> Chief Transportation Official
> PLANNING & COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT
> Transportation
> Joshuah.Mello@CityofPaloAlto.org
> office: 650.329.2520 fax: 650.329.2154
>
> Use Palo Alto 311 to report items you’d like the City to fix. Download the app or click here to make a service
request.
>
>
> -----Original Appointment-----
> From: De Geus, Robert
> Sent: Wednesday, March 07, 2018 1:49 PM
> To: De Geus, Robert; Gaines, Chantal; Mello, Joshuah; George Jaquette
> Subject: Ross Rd Bike Boulevard
> When: Friday, March 16, 2018 9:00 AM-10:00 AM (UTC-08:00) Pacific Time (US & Canada).
> Where: 7th Floor Conf Room
>
>
>
>
>
>
> Danille Rice
>
> Office of the City Manager
>
> D: 650.329.2229
>
>
>
> From: George Jaquette [mailto:jaquette@gmail.com]
> Sent: Monday, March 05, 2018 6:48 PM
> To: De Geus, Robert
> Subject: Re: Ross Rd Bike Boulevard
>
>
>
> Rob-
>
> Sounds great, I would love to share our experience and hear more about the goals. My personal objective is to
stop further work, as the current phase has created a very dangerous situation at the intersection of East
Meadow and Ross Road. 552 people (to date) agree with me.
>
>
>
> I'll look forward to hearing from Judy, and also to meeting with you soon.
                                                       4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/21/2018 8:14 AM
>
>
> George
>
>
>
>
>
> On Mon, Mar 5, 2018 at 4:25 PM, De Geus, Robert <Robert.DeGeus@cityofpaloalto.org> wrote:
>
> Good afternoon George,
>
> My name is Rob de Geus I work for the City of Palo Alto. I understand that you have a petition to stop the
bike boulevard project on Ross Rd. I would like to schedule a meeting with you to listen to your concerns and I
also hope we may be able to share more about what the project is intending to accomplish overtime, in relation
to the City-wide bike and pedestrian plan. I hope you will be open to this as I am very interested in hearing
more resident feedback about this project. I will ask my assistant Judy Ng to find a day and time that works for
us.
>
> Thank you,
> Rob
>
>
>
> Rob de Geus
>
> Deputy City Manager
>
> 250 Hamilton Ave | Palo Alto, CA 94301
>
> D: 650.463.4951 | F: 650.321.5612 | E: Robert.deGeus@cityofpaloalto.org
>
>
>
> “Engaging Individuals and Families to Create a Strong and Healthy Community”
>
>
>
> --
>
> George Jaquette
> email: jaquette@gmail.com
>
>




--

                                                        5
                  Conversation with City Planning Department


March 16th, 9am
Questions:
   1. Can we go around the room to introduce ourselves and share roles and titles
      please?
   2. Can you each please indicate whether you have observed traffic at the corner
      of Ross Road and East Meadow during peak traffic?
   3. How many vehicles, bicycles, and pedestrians go through that intersection
       between 7:30-8:30am and again between 2:30-3:30pm?
   4. What is the AADT through the intersection of Ross Road and East Meadow?
   5. How many students attend Fairmeadow Elementary School? How many of
       them live west of Ross Road?
   6. How many students attend JLS Middle School? How many of them live west
       of Ross Road?
   7. How many students attend Gunn High School? How many of them live west
       of Ross Road?
   8. How many accidents (police reports) were filed for this intersection in 2017?
   9. How many accidents (police reports) have been filed for this intersection so
       far in 2018?
   10. What is your relationship with Alta Planning & Design?
   11. When did the City of Palo Alto first hire Alta Planning & Design as a
       contractor?
   12. What is the value of Alta Planning and Design contracts with the City of Palo
       Alto, both past and future?
   13. What is your relationship with Jaime Rodriguez, past employee of the City of
       Palo Alto?
   14. The Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) defines any roundabout less
       than 90-feet for interior circle diameter as a mini-roundabout. Does everyone
       in the room understand that the traffic circle at East Meadow and Ross Road
       has an ICD of 64-feet?
   15. For a mini-roundabout, the FHWA states that the interior island should be
       completely traversable. Does everyone present understand that this is NOT
       what has been built at the intersection of East Meadow and Ross Road?
   16. The FHWA does not recommend mini-roundabouts for intersections with
       greater than 25,000 AADT. Estimates for questions (5), (6), and (7) above
       likely result in 7,000 trips within one hour. What data can you share that this
       design is appropriate for this intersection?
   17. What is an appropriate sight-line for a roundabout with an expected vehicle
       speed of 25-mph?
   18. What is your relationship with Laurentiu Dusciuc?
   19. What do you think Ed Rice said when contacted about a 64-foot mini-
       roundabout?




George Jaquette                   March 16, 2018                           Page 1 of x
                  Conversation with City Planning Department


Requests:
   1. May I please have a copy of the Intersection Control Analysis for this
      intersection, which is required by the Department of Transportation for
      changes to traffic flow.
   2. Can you provide the locations for the rest of the planned round-abouts in the
      city plan, together with the dimensions of each intersection (existing
      sidewalk to existing sidewalk, both directions)?
   3. Can you provide me with the roundabout design (measurements, materials,
      sizes) for the intersection of Ross Road and East Meadow?
   4. Please provide any traffic data to support your AADT analysis, which again is
      required by the ICA described in (1).
From the contract that the city signed with Alta Design, please share the following
data for this intersection:
       Traffic data collection will be conducted by the CONSULT ANT upon approval
       by CITY, and is anticipated to include:
       • Seven days of vehicle speed and classification hose counts along each
       project route (up to 15 locations)
       • Seven days of bicyclist and pedestrian counts using video including
       information on directionality, for each project, one coW'I.t will include
       approximate information regarding bicyclist type (age, gender, helmet use)-
       (up to 15 locations) ·
       • Where appropriate, intersection peak hour turning movement counts (up
       to 16 total)


       Was Josh Mello involved in selecting Alta Planning and Design? What was the
       elapsed time between Josh accepting a job with the City of Palo Alto and the
       signing of a design contract?




George Jaquette                   March 16, 2018                          Page 1 of x
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 9:43 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Bala Meduri <bamrutha@yahoo.com>
Sent:                            Thursday, March 15, 2018 6:00 AM
To:                              Council, City; Clerk, City; Architectural Review Board
Subject:                         I oppose the installation of 93 cell towers proposed by Verizon



Dear City Council of Palo Alto

I, Meduri BalaMurali K, resident of Palo Alto, CA writing this email to oppose the installation of 93 cell towers
proposed by City of Palo Alto.

Thanks
Bala




                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 10:09 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Fred Balin <fbalin@gmail.com>
Sent:                              Sunday, March 18, 2018 11:57 AM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           3/14 Letter from Attorney on Behalf of Philips Rd / Madison Way Residents
Attachments:                       r-blaw.com_20180314_132114.pdf


FYI attached, in case you have not receive it.

‐Fred Balin
2385 Columbia Street




                                                            1
 JEFFREY P. BLUM, ATTORNEY AT LAW
Four Main Street, Suite 60                   Family Law Mediation, Private Judging and Litigation
Los Altos, California 94022                  Email: blumesq@filll.co111; Website: jejfreypblum.com

                                       March 14, 2018

City of Palo Alto; Attention: City Attorney Stump

Dear City Attorney Stump:

        I am writing to you on behalf of several people who reside in the Phillips Road/Madison Way
area of Palo Alto. While I am not a real estate attorney, since time is short for addressing the issues
they are concerned about, I voluntarily offered to temporarily assist them by writing to you. If
necessary, with my assistance, they will retain real estate counsel.

        I understand from speaking to these concerned residents that illegal garages may have been
constructed at 558 Madison Way and 11 Phillips Road. The applicable law is Palo Alto's Contextual
Garage Placement law, 18.12.0lO(f). These residents may have been harmed by the City's decisions to
allow these garages to (a) be built in the first place and then (b) further enclosed.

        What has been conveyed to me is the following:

        The City failed to reveal that garages, and not merely carports, were being built at these
addresses. The City failed to stop this violation of the Contextual Garage Placement law and instead
issued permits enabling the violations. The City failed to explain in reports to the Planning
Commission and City Council in 2015 and later, that such garage violations were being approved and
instead said it was just for carports. The City did not reveal the apparent conflict of interest regarding
a Planning and Transportation Commissioner, who participated in discussions of potential changes to
the Context Garage Placement law in 2015 and subsequently, at the time he had an ownership interest
in the above referenced projects, even though the City has apparently admitted it knew of the
conflict. City staff also did not suggest changes in the Municipal Code that would limit and/or remedy
the harm done by illegally-placed garages and carports. Instead, City staff only suggested closing a
loophole. In all these respects, where the City should have provided information and taken action to
protect neighbors of these properties, it failed to do so.

        On behalf of the potentially harmed neighbors in the Phillips Road/Madison Way area, and to
prevent further harm, I request that the City block any further enclosing of the garages at the two
properties named above and make no changes to the Contextual Garage Placement law and the legal
definitions of garages and carports in the Municipal Code until the neighbors, council members, and
the entire public are given full and C<!lmplete information about the matter and time to discuss possible
solutions. Failing that, the City may increase the harm to neighbors.




                                                                                                     Pagel
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 9:40 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                         christophe c <christophe168@gmail.com>
Sent:                         Wednesday, March 14, 2018 4:09 PM
To:                           Architectural Review Board
Cc:                           Council, City; Clerk, City
Subject:                      local Verizon cell towers



Dear members of the ARB,

Please deny approval of the street level cell towers proposed by Verizon in Palo Alto, and insist that
all the electronics be put underground.

Of particular concern is the noise level, with the constant hum of a fan that would bother neighbors
24/7. Even a low level hum is not acceptable if it is non-stop, day and night. And this can easily be
avoided by putting the equipment underground.

Thank you for all your efforts in finding an appropriate solution.
Most respectfully,

Christophe Chevallier
168 Tennyson ave.
Palo Alto




                                                     1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 9:39 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                         herb <herb_borock@hotmail.com>
Sent:                         Wednesday, March 14, 2018 1:59 PM
To:                           Planning Commission
Cc:                           Owen, Graham; Lait, Jonathan; Council, City; Clerk, City
Subject:                      March 14, 2018, P&TC Meeting, Item #2: Affordable Housing Combining District


Herb Borock
P. O. Box 632
Palo Alto, CA 94302

March 14, 2018

Planning and Transportation Commission
250 Hamilton Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94301


MARCH 14, 2018, PLANNING AND TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION MEETING
AGENDA ITEM #2
AFFORDABLE HOUSING (AH) COMBINING DISTRICT


Dear Planning and Transportation Commission:

The original proposal for an Affordable Housing (AH) Combining District
combined two different types of housing that should be kept separate when
recommending and enacting legislation for housing.

One type of housing is deed-restricted housing that ensures that the units
are available only to those at a given income level, and where the monthly
rents are limited to a percentage of tenants incomes, usually 30% of
household income.

The other type of housing is for-profit housing of a unit size and project
size that will give developers a desired return on investment. This
second type of housing is sometimes referred to by slogans such as
"affordable" housing or "work force" housing, but is not housing that
is affordable to households that have incomes at or below the county
median income, and is housing that could be marketed to people who work in
other communities when the housing is located on high transit corridors.

The 2017 Annual Housing Element Report for the Period of January 1, 2017,
to December 31, 2017, was discussed in a Study Session by the City Council
at its March 5, 2018 meeting.


                                                      1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 9:39 AM
The staff report for that agenda item (ID # 8694) at Page 10 of 35 at
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/63643
describes non-deed-restricted moderate units as being apartments for rent
and ADUs/JADUs.

The State Income Limits for 2017 published by the California Department of
Housing and Community Development (HCD) for Santa Clara County are on Page
11 of 13 at http://www.hcd.ca.gov/grants-funding/income-limits/state-and-
federal-income-limits/docs/inc2k17.pdf.

The 2017 Annual Housing Element Report omits the rental prices for the
units described as "moderate income" in the Report.

Here are two examples of recent rental listings that can be compared to
the HCD income limits and the percentage of income required to rent those
units.

One of the units is an Accessory Dwelling Unit. The other is a two
bedroom house. One and two bedroom apartment market rents fall between
the two examples.

A 600 square foot Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) renting for $3,100 a month
is described in the March 9, 2018, edition of the Palo Alto Weekly on Page
31 at
https://www.paloaltoonline.com/morguepdf/2018/2018_03_09.paw.section1.pdf.

That ADU rent is 30% of the income of a three-person family earning 120%
of the median county income, or 33% of a four-person family earning the
median county income.

A 997 square foot 2 Bedroom, 1 Bath house at 850 Boyce Avenue available on
May 1, 2018, is currently listed for a one-year rental at $4,800 a month
at https://hotpads.com/850-boyce-ave-palo-alto-ca-94301-
1m7hu4q/pad?propertyTypes=house&z=12&lat=37.4577&lon=-
122.1732&border=false.

I believe that house is currently renting for $4,500 a month.

That rent for that house at $4,500 a month is 30% of the income of an
eight-person family earning 120% of the County median income.

The rent for that same house at the listed price of $4,800 a month is 32%
of the income of an eight-person family earning 120% of the County median
income.

I urge you to limit your recommendation for an AH Combining District to
deed-restricted rent levels for designated income classes.

Sincerely,

Herb Borock                                          2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 10:14 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                          aram james <abjpd1@icloud.com>
Sent:                          Sunday, March 18, 2018 3:01 PM
To:                            chuckjagoda1@gmail.com; wilpf.peninsula.paloalto@gmail.com;
                               51swampdog@gmail.com; gkirby@redwoodcity.org; Jonsen, Robert;
                               jrosen@da.sccgov.org; swagstaffe@smcgov.org; myraw@smcba.org; Council, City;
                               citycouncil@menlopark.org; council@redwoodcity.org; Binder, Andrew; Perron,
                               Zachary; HRC; stevendlee@alumni.duke.edu; paloaltofreepress@gmail.com
Subject:                       Marijuana and Racial Justice: Striking Differences in 2 Cities


http://www.watertowndailytimes.com/national/marijuana-and-racial-justice-striking-differences-in-2-cities-
20180317&template=mwdt

Shared via the Google app


Sent from my iPhone




                                                      1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 9:41 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Jane Smith <bloomsmithfamily@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Wednesday, March 14, 2018 6:18 PM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         Message from the City Council Home Page



Dear City Council,
I am writing as a resident in Midtown supporting the Ross Road Bike Boulevard. I have seen many angry posts
complaining / threatening on Next Door about the changes to Ross Road's status of a bicycle boulevard.

The changes are good, and that traffic is already calmer. Most of the objections can be attributed to initial
unfamiliarity, or objections to the idea and operation of a bike boulevard at all.

An anti-bike boulevard petition is circulating. With all due respect to those signing the petition, the time for
raising objections was during any of the many community meetings about the project, or even as far back as
2003 when the city’s bike plan was adopted, and Ross was designated a bike boulevard.

I am simply providing a perspective from the other side since it less likely that people will write in to say they
like the changes!

Sincerely,
Jane Smith




                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/21/2018 8:12 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Rebecca Sanders <rebsanders@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Tuesday, March 20, 2018 1:22 PM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         Mr. Alcheck



Dear Mayor Kniss and Council Members:

I was shocked to learn that Mr. Michael Alcheck leveraged his position of power on the PTC to build two
illegal garages on properties he owns. Playing fast and loose with the building codes he has sworn to uphold is
surely enough grounds for dismissal.
I urge you to invite Mr. Alcheck to step down. He is a distraction to the work of the Planning Department and of
the PTC and of the Council. In public life, he will taint everything he touches because his hands are no longer
clean. As long as he holds a position of public trust, his opinions and votes are no longer credible because as a
public servant, he must be held to the highest ethical standards.

Here are links to some of the telling moments in public meetings where Mr. Alcheck suitability to serve is in
question:

Web Link - Outline of the events
Web Link - Pictures of the garages, presented by resident of Edgewood

The Feb 14 PTC meeting where Mr. Balin raises concerns about PTC decorum:
Web Link

The March 14 PTC meeting where staff was lectured from the dais is here:
Web Link

Thank you for considering my input in this matter.

Sincerely,

Becky Sanders
Ventura Neighborhood




                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 9:58 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Jane Gorokhovsky <janego@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Friday, March 16, 2018 12:10 AM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         My daughter and I almost got hit by a car on Ross



Hello,
I wanted to let you know that my 8-year-old daughter and I were biking on Ross when we almost got run over
while trying to fit into the little gap on a bump. The car behind us cut us and went right in front of us. My
daughter and I stopped in time but my bike hit her bike. I lost control of my bike and almost fell, hurting
myself.

My daughter was so stressed she couldn't stop crying. We now bike on Louis Rd.

I am very afraid of fatalities of young bikers if this road stays the way it is today. It's very dangerous.

Thank you
Jane




                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 10:16 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                            aram james <abjpd1@icloud.com>
Sent:                            Monday, March 19, 2018 12:04 AM
To:                              Council, City; chuckjagoda1@gmail.com; wilpf.peninsula.paloalto@gmail.com
Subject:                         National Geographic: As America Changes, Some Anxious Whites Feel Left Behind




As America Changes, Some Anxious Whites Feel Left Behind
National Geographic

Demographic shifts rippling across the nation are fueling fears that their culture and standing are under threat.
Read the full story



Shared from Apple News



Sent from my iPhone




                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 10:15 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                    ron ito <wsrfr418@yahoo.com>
Sent:                                    Sunday, March 18, 2018 7:43 PM
To:                                      Council, City
Subject:                                 Need pension reform.....


Walters: How Santa Cruz is going under, like many California cities




           Walters: How Santa Cruz is going under, like many
           California cities
           When Santa Cruz, a picturesque and funky coastal city, first
           started to feel the pinch of rising retirement cost...



Employees should not be encouraged to spend their entire careers here because
we offer a good pension.




                                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 10:11 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                               Fred Balin <fbalin@gmail.com>
Sent:                               Sunday, March 18, 2018 2:53 PM
To:                                 Council, City
Cc:                                 Gennady Sheyner; price@padailypost.com
Subject:                            New Information Confirming Alcheck Conflict
Attachments:                        10_2_17 from staff to council.pdf


Council Members,

I would like to bring your attention to a new piece of vital information regarding Item 14 on your agenda for tomorrow
(Monday) night.

Attached please find a copy of an email dated October 2, 2017 from the Planning Director to the City Council and others.

Section 3 relates to Planning and Transportation Commissioner Michael Alcheck. The final sentence reads as follows:

“Unless the code is changed, however, the conversion can be approved after a reasonable period of time."

This is new evidence that his conversion from “carports” to garages could have been blocked by a change in the code
related to contextual garage placement.

However Commissioner Alcheck participated the next month and subsequently in Planning Commission hearings on
possible changes to that very code.

This confirms that his participation was a conflict of interest and violated FPPC rules.

I again request, as stated in the formal complaint I filed on March 5, that the matter before you be tabled until it
receives a fair hearing by disinterested members of the Planning and Transportation Commission not including
Commissioner Alcheck.

Thank you,
Fred Balin
2385 Columbia Street




                                                              1
     From: Gitelman, Hillary
_.,, S~nt: Monday, October 2, 2017 1:30 PM
     To: DuBois, Tom; Fine, Adrian; Holman, Karen; Kou, Lydia; Scharff, Greg; Tanaka,
     Greg; PACory Wolbach; Filseth, Eric (external); Kniss, Liz (external)
     Cc: Keene, James; Shikada, Ed; De Geus, Robert; Flaherty, Michelle; Stump, Molly;
     Lait, Jonathan; Keith, Claudia
     Subject: Planning Issues of Interest FYI

  Mayor Scharff & Councilmembers:

  Jim asked me to provide some information on a few different issues that we've been
  working on or have received multiple questions about.

  1.     First, as we communicated previously, the proposed marijuana paraphernalia
  store on Cal Ave is required to comply with PAMC Section 4.58, which I paraphrased as
  requiring items to be sold in a back room that is not accessible to minors. The applicant
  is proposing to prohibit entry to the shop by minors and is arguing that this means he
  does not need a floor plan separating the goods for sale in a back room. Based on our
  code language, we are forced to agree.

  2.    Second, we had a number of questions from Councilmembers over the weekend
  about outdoor seating at Antonio's Nut House. Apparently, there were posts on
  NextDoor suggesting that the City had denied an application or somehow prohibited
  outdoor seating. In actuality, the City has not received an application for outdoor
  seating at the Nut House in recent years, although our staff recently answered
  questions from the owner/representative about how to apply and we were able to find
  an approval letter for outdoor tables and chairs from 2003. The 2003 letter specifically
  states that the approval for the tables and chairs did not expand the alcohol service
  area such that alcohol was permitted outside.

  We are reaching out to ABC to see if they have recently denied a permit for alcohol
  service outdoors based on this old letter from 2003. If the owner were to file a new
  application with the City, we could review it to see if would be ok to serve alcohol
  outside, although there is a history of noise and other disturbances associated with the
  business. Also, per ABC requirements, they would need to have enough room to
  establish a barrier for the alcohol service area.

   3.    Third, we wanted you to be aware that we've investigated complaints related to
   conversion of two carports to garages by property owners that include Michael Alcheck,
   the Chair of our PTC. In both cases, a new single family home was constructed in a
_.,,, neighborhood context that did not allow a garage to   be built at the front of the lot. As
  currently written, however, the code does not restrict the placement of carports at the
  front of the lot and both projects were approved with carports. Immediately after final
  inspections, the carports were converted to garages without benefit of permits. This is a
  violation of the building code and we asked the owners to submit building permit
  applications to legalize the conversions. After consultation with the City Manager and
  City Attorney, staff will not be approving permits for the conversions from carports to
  garages at this time as this would circumvent our code requirements on neighborhood
  context. Unless the code is changed, however, the conversion can be approved after a
  reasonable period of time.

  4.     Finally, I've attached a revised handout from the TMA summarizing results of their
  survey that was provided in response to the Council's questions. The survey firm, EMC,
  had previously re-weighted the data for more accurate comparisons, but not all slides
  were updated with the re-weighted data. Slide 11 in particular, has now been updated
  and is in synch with Slide 8. Several other slides were also updated. No conclusions or
  key findings have changed and it's important to remember that the TMA is measuring
  their effectiveness two ways: via this annual survey and by tracking active participation
  in programs that get commuters out of SOV.

  Please let us know if you have questions about any of these items (and please do not
  "reply all").                                                             ·

  Hillary

  Hillary Gitelman I Director I P&CE Department
  250 Hamilton Avenue I Palo Alto, CA 94301
  T: 650.329.2321 IE: hillary.gitelman@cityofpaloalto.org
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 4:21 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Neilson Buchanan <cnsbuchanan@yahoo.com>
Sent:                          Monday, March 19, 2018 12:06 PM
To:                            Council, City; Planning Commission
Subject:                       News that impacts Quality of Life on the Peninsula



If you find this helpful, please subscribe.

Neilson Buchanan
155 Bryant Street
Palo Alto, CA 94301

650 329-0484
650 537-9611 cell
cnsbuchanan@yahoo.com


----- Forwarded Message -----
From: SFPRA - San Francisco Peninsula Residents Association <cnsbuchanan+yahoo.com@ccsend.com>
To: "cnsbuchanan@yahoo.com" <cnsbuchanan@yahoo.com>
Sent: Sunday, March 18, 2018, 6:36:04 PM PDT
Subject: News that impacts Quality of Life on the Peninsula




            THIS WEEK ON THE SAN FRANCISCO PENINSULA
                           News that Impacts Your Quality of Life
                                              March 18, 2018


                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 4:21 PM



                                                View as Webpage

                                 In this Issue


                 Will Tech Titans step up?



            Dear Readers,
            What is the impact of 8+ years of sustained
            success on the Silicon Peninsula? We think
            Silicon Success has been overstated and that our transportation
            infrastructure has been stretched too thin.
            Proposed solutions, funding and timetables are not credible. Housing
            is becoming a priority but will transportation catch up? We are
            dubious.
            Power and capital are being concentrated in Sacramento and among
            Tech Titans. How will this power be tapped? Will the Tech Titans step
            up to problems they created and fund public transportation
            infrastructure? … “Catching up” is billions, not millions.



                                             To Subscribe Click Here


                                                       Can Tech Titans be tamed?

                                                       For the record, we define Tech Titans broadly to
                                                       include all sectors of the local economy… not
                                                       just GAF. It is not fair game to only pick on
                                                       Google, Apple, Facebook or Stanford. Growing
                                                       up is hard to do and we will cover this topic
                                                       heavily in the future.
                                                       Economist.com

            Is Facebook tone deaf?

            Early in March the Wall Street Journal noted that
            Facebook was a bit tone deaf. Unfortunately this article is
            subscriber only but one sentence sums it up. “Social-
            media giant played down allegations Russia exploited its




                                                         2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 4:21 PM



            platform, deepening perceptions it is oblivious to public
            concern about its social impact.”
            WallStreetJournal

            Ed Comment: In the next newsletter we will have more
            to say about Facebook’s plans to grow beyond its current
            constraints in Menlo Park.

                                             Pamper me

                                             Mark Zuckerberg has hired a full-time pollster to gauge
                                             his public image. Facebook’s brand came under fire after
                                             the 2016 presidential election, after the company
                                             revealed it failed to stop Russian-backed groups and
                                             political wedge issues. The company has also been
                                             criticized for allowing the spread of fake news stories.
                                             On the positive side, Mr. Zuckerberg has defended
                                             “Dreamers”, suggested universal basic income and
                                             funded a massive initiative to “advance human potential
                                             and promote equality.”
                                             SVbusinessJournal

                                             Ed. Comment: In 1896 The New York Times made
                                             famous the expression “All the news that’s fit to print” Are
                                             some Tech Titans ramping up their game to “All the
                                             public relations that money can buy?” We ask Mr.
                                             Zucckerberg what Dave Packard and Bill Hewlett would
                                             say about corporate responsibility were they alive today?

            How many horse towns?

            Just when it seemed Facebook had taken up all the
            space it could in Menlo Park and had started eying
            up the East Bay to expand, the social media giant
            appears to have found another 100,000 square feet
            in its hometown on the Peninsula.
            Real estate expert Phil Mahoney said, "I think [Menlo
            Park] will become increasingly like Google in
            Mountain View and Apple in Cupertino," he said,
            adding that Menlo Park runs the risk of "becoming
            more of a one-horse town" as the company grows.
            SVBusinessJournal

            Ed. Comment: In our spare time we will research
            the success cycle of one-company towns. We see no
            signs of the current boom fading anywhere on the
            Peninsula. Change is unlikely to come from city halls
            enamored with the status of being homes to
            corporate HQs. Eventually change may be driven by



                                                          3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 4:21 PM



            outside regulators who force breakup of some
            Titans, like breaking up telephone monopolies years
            ago. But don’t hold your breath.

                                                     Our brains hijacked by technology?

                                                     Early Facebook and Google employees have
                                                     formed a coalition to fight what they built. What
                                                     is their thesis? “What began as a race to
                                                     monetize our attention is now eroding the pillars
                                                     of our society: mental health, democracy, social
                                                     relationships, and our children.”
                                                     SVBusinessJournal

                                                     Ed. Comment: We note these concerns all
                                                     over the world. The link above may be
                                                     subscriber only. However, you can google
                                                     Center for Humane Technology or
                                                     click HumanTech

            Outlier opinion?

            The rise of Tech Giants may be bad news for the
            economy. The dominance of a few firms risks
            harming productivity and growth, study finds.
            Bloomberg

            Ed. Comment: Who speaks truth to power? We take
            Bloomberg News seriously. But who will take this
            French economic report seriously? Most Americans
            think the French play in left field. C'est la vie!




                                                Mary walks

                                                Steve Case’s “Rise of the Rest” initiative, which aims
                                                to draw attention and capital to startups based
                                                outside the coasts, has hired Mary Grove as head
                                                of Google for Entrepreneurs as a partner.
                                                Grove is migrating to Minneapolis to heat startups in
                                                non-coastal cities. “I was really energized and
                                                inspired by the model and platform and mission,”
                                                Grove said. “I could constantly see that
                                                entrepreneurship is something that’s thriving all over
                                                the world, not just in Silicon Valley.”
                                                SVBusinessJournal



                                                       4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 4:21 PM




                                                 Ed. Comment: Basic economics has the power to
                                                 move people and capital from the coasts. “Steve
                                                 and Mary” raise our region’s employee retention
                                                 question. Can we continue our success with
                                                 massive, unfunded transportation infrastructure?

            Musk sense

            SJ Mercury has a sizzling editorial. “Elon Musk should
            start behaving like an adult. The creator of Tesla and
            SpaceX demonstrated that he’s a self-centered child
            in a grownup’s body with his reckless pre-sale last
            month of 20,000 flamethrowers.”
            SJMercuryNews

            Ed Comment: We thought flaming emails were one
            of Silicon Peninsula’s greatest problems….but we
            were wrong again. Will leaders as creative as Mr.
            Musk buy back his flamethrowers and step up to
            serious funding of public transportation for the
            common good or just their own needs? Everyone
            envies the fleets of private buses but they are often
            stuck in the same traffic that plagues the rest of
            us. We hear that ride inside is sweet!

                                                 Non-addicting opiate for our readers

                                                 We are searching for humor on the San Francisco
                                                 Peninsula. Please send us your ideas and we will
                                                 publish best of breed! Email link below.




              Success of SFPRA newsletter success depends upon its readers. Please feel
               free to forward the newletter to your friends and neighbors. Ask them to
                   subscribe at no cost by clicking the subscribe button above or by
                                  emailing cnsbuchanan@gmail.com.

            Editors Neilson Buchanan and John Guislin are unpaid, private citizens on the
            SF Peninsula and have no ties to developers or government organizations.

                                     Web Site and Social Media Coming Soon



                             Neilson Buchanan | Downtown North, Palo Alto, CA 94301



                                                         5
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 10:16 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           aram james <abjpd1@icloud.com>
Sent:                           Monday, March 19, 2018 12:50 AM
To:                             chuckjagoda1@gmail.com; swagstaffe@smcgov.org; dcbertini@menlopark.org; Jonsen,
                                Robert; gkirby@redwoodcity.org; stevendlee@alumni.duke.edu; Council, City;
                                wilpf.peninsula.paloalto@gmail.com; citycouncil@menlopark.org;
                                51swampdog@gmail.com; Binder, Andrew; jrosen@da.sccgov.org;
                                paloaltofreepress@gmail.com; dprice@padailypost.com; bos@smcgov.org;
                                myraw@smcba.org; Perron, Zachary; HRC; sdremann@paweekly.com
Subject:                        NYTimes: ‘Testilying’ by Police: A Stubborn Problem


Here's a story from The New York Times that I thought you'd find interesting:

Police lying persists, even amid an explosion of video evidence that has allowed the public to test officers’
credibility.

Read More...

Get The New York Times on your mobile device


Sent from my iPhone




                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 10:08 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Saturday, March 17, 2018 3:37 PM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         : ongoing exchange between Stephanie Munoz and Aram James re the consequence of
                                 the recall election of Judge Persky



FYI: Nat,

Here is an exchange between myself and Stephanie Munoz that goes back a few weeks. Thought this might
answer some of your concerns. Aram




              Dear Stephanie,

              I agree that that this recall is bigger than Persky, bigger then Turner, bigger then
              Dauber, or Cordell, et al. And yes, let’s start with the consequences of a recall on
              the ordinary citizen. I like a James Baldwin quote here to start the conversation :

               James Baldwin —

              "If one really wants to know how justice is administered in a country, one does
              not question the policemen, the lawyers, the judges, or the protected members of
              the middle class. One goes to the unprotected — those, precisely, who need the
              laws' protection most — and listens to their testimony.” The Price of the Ticket,
              “No Name in the Street” (1972)


              So here, Stephanie, I think we might agree. It’s the people, not the politicians, not
              the judges or lawyers, that most need protection from the impact of our laws.


              It is in this spirit, in this context, that I most fear the current recall. I don’t think a
              recall of Persky helps the little person.


              Quite to the contrary, this witch-hunt, will have the impact of hurting the very
              ones you most advocate need the benefit of judicial discretion, and the mercy of
              the courts.


              Stephanie, you suggest that I might have overlooked the fact that if Turner didn't
              have the benefit of white skin, he might have been treated more harshly.

                                                           1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 10:08 AM
              That somehow my initial piece( Don’t judge Persky’s sentence in a vacuum),
              didn’t address my deep concern with the impact the recall would have on the poor
              and people of color.

              But here’s a few paragraphs, from my initial piece, that speak directly to the issue
              of racial disproportionality. And the fact that a successful recall will exacerbate,
              not mitigate, the racial disparity in the system, that you seem so passionately to
              oppose.

              “... Many of the same progressives voices who have spoken out long and
              passionately against over incarceration, mass incarceration, the disproportionate
              sentencing imposed on the poor and people of color, are now doing an about face
              in the Turner case.

              They are shouting out that more barbarism should have been handed down in the
              Turner case. The same mentality that has brought us to our current failed state of
              mass incarceration.

              Instead of blindly demanding that a white male elite be sentenced to prison for his
              first offense, the better logic is to demand the same measure of justice and mercy,
              for similarly situated defendants of color and the poor....”
              ( all three paragraphs above, my language)

              You state the following in your latest response:

                     “The violence you recount that happens to people in jails--that's
                     what happens to women just because they're women.”

              Are you suggesting that its okay with you that inmates, can be beaten, raped and
              tortured, because, as a general proposition, women are beaten just because they’re
              women? Do you really mean that? I’m convinced you don’t.

              Isn’t the better solution both in our criminal justice system, and in our
              misogynistic society at large, to apply a restorative justice/solution based
              approach first, before going the way of a vengeance model.

              Your vengeance model has led to the largest prison industrial complex on the
              plant. Stripping fair minded judges like Persky, of judicial discretion, will only
              add to our current Jeff Sessions/Donald Trump lock-um-all-up mentality/climate.

              My guess is that if we were dealing with issues of war and peace, of the sort
              championed by wonderful organizations like WILLF, a look at diplomacy and
              restorative justice models would be a first instinct, before pursuing war against a
              perceived enemy on a whim .

              Why not apply the same thinking, a diplomatic/restorative thought process, to the
              war being fought by our government, against our own people, a war called the:
              Criminal Injustice System.

                                                        2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 10:08 AM
              Your support for the recall of Judge Persky, if looked at closely, is really a call for
              war, without having first looked at the option of diplomacy or restorative justice,
              for the parties.

              I request that you take a step back and reconsider your support of this recall/rush
              to judgement against a good and fair minded judge.

              Peace, justice and respect,

              Aram




              On Feb 24, 2018, at 4:20 AM, Stephanie Munoz <stephanie@dslextreme.com>
              wrote:

                     Dearest Aram: I'm honored that you are taking the time to
                     send me a cogent, intelligent and good hearted
                     message. It's not about Judge Persky. After all, we still call
                     George Washington the Father of our Country even though
                     he had slaves. It's not about judicial discretion, which is a
                     very good thing. I wouldn't say it's about white privilege, It's
                     not even about Brock Turner's punishment, although I think
                     that you'd be the first to admit that if Brock were a man not
                     protected by the magic cloak of white skin he'd be quite
                     harshly treated. It's about the rest of us, simple non-lawyers,
                     supposed to govern ourselves; we've condoned a great deal
                     of injustice, and this isn't so much a recall as a referendum
                     on what's called "the rule of law", which includes the way
                     people behave that's not codified, like The New York Times
                     mentioned a couple of women who went to prison for trying
                     to get their children in a better public school. In this
                     instance, an elected official in a high position has delivered
                     a sentence saying violating a woman's physical integrity,
                     acting so as to impregnate her--which itself has danger, and
                     changes the course of her life, not to mention the enormous
                     injustice to the fatherless child, is about on a par with
                     smuggling in a Bengal tiger cub.
                     Every woman--well, almost every woman--wants to be the
                     most special person to a man who will take good care of her
                     and her children, someone she can make the king of her life,
                     and give that very special gift to, something that she alone
                     can give to a man she loves. A man her children can look
                     up to and trust, not a man who trashes something wonderful
                     and beautiful. She wants to be a mother, and she needs
                                                         3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 10:08 AM
                     somebody who considers his power to father a child as
                     something tremendous, something sacred. Maybe the
                     person who considers sex sacred might have related
                     qualities that could be hard to live with, and if one of those
                     qualities is a prejudice against a woman who has been
                     tarnished, too bad.
                     The violence you recount that happens to people in jails--
                     that's what happens to women just because they're
                     women. The indifference to the suffering of black people,
                     that's what is happening to women. Recently I talked to two
                     men from different walks of life. Court is a moderately wealth
                     genius from MIT who spends most of his waking hours
                     volunteering computer training to the kids of East Palo Alto
                     so they can get good jobs. You need some money for
                     desks? Here. I was complaining about homelessness being
                     misgovernance and he said "They just don't care." and my
                     heart went out to him for the way cruelty to others hurts
                     him. A week or so later I was at the flea market chatting with
                     Roy, a beautiful black after-market seller, and we were
                     talking about the homeless and he said the same exact
                     thing, in the exact same way, and I saw in his face the way
                     that indifference has hurt him personally. That must be true
                     for you, too. You have black children. You're a
                     defender. Don't be one of "Them", those people who don't
                     care. What is it engraved on the Museum of the
                     Holocaust? "For evil to prevail, it's only necessary that good
                     men do nothing."
                     love and peace, Stephanie

                     From: "@" <abjpd1@gmail.com>
                     To: "stephanie" <stephanie@dslextreme.com>i
                     Cc: "WILPF Peninsula Palo Alto"
                     <wilpf.peninsula.paloalto@gmail.com>, "chuck jagoda"
                     <chuckjagoda1@gmail.com>, "roberta ahlquist"
                     <roberta.ahlquist@sjsu.edu>
                     Sent: Monday, February 19, 2018 11:00:50 PM
                     Subject: Re: representative government

                     Hi Stephanie,

                     Thanks for your latest response. Did you read the piece I
                     sent your way: Don't judge Persky sentence in a vacuum?

                     I certainly never took the position or does Cordell, in her
                     public pronouncements, for that matter, that Brock Turner
                     doesn’t deserve to be punished appropriately.

                     The thrust of my piece was that young defendants, without
                     substantial prior records, should be first be sentenced

                                                     4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 10:08 AM
                     coming from a restorative justice model, as opposed to a
                     vengeance 1st model of sentencing.

                     My article makes it clear that the offenses that Turner was
                     convicted of, deserve the most serious consideration:

                     “... Based on the nature of Turner’s convictions, the terms
                     and conditions of his probation are multiple, complex
                     restrictive and appropriately oppressive.( my language).

                     I point out in the piece that offenders like Turner, who are
                     given jail time and probation at the outset, face a complex
                     dizzying maze of probationary conditions, that, if violated,
                     subject the probationer to very lengthy prison sentences.

                     I handled literally thousand of felony probation matters in my
                     years as a public defender, and a huge preponderance of
                     my clients, violated probation, and were sent off to prison.

                     Sent off to prison, where they faced horrible circumstances,
                     in violation of the 8th Amendment ban on cruel and unusual
                     conditions. Many are raped and beaten, tortured, and other
                     unspeakable inhumane treatments inflicted.

                     Often, upon release, there are no jobs, no housing, no
                     second chances. And, yes, recidivism and back to prison
                     with new victims, all because good intentioned folks, didn’t
                     stop and think about what the vengeance 1st model of
                     sentencing breeds, more of the same.

                     Why not give a judge like Persky the discretion to stop the
                     cycle, by imposing a restorative-rehabilitative sentence first,
                     while imposing very harsh conditions of probation, that if the
                     defendant violates ( fails to avail himself of the rehabilitation
                     offered) is then sent off to prison for public safety.

                     Remember, the recommendation for 6 months in county jail,
                     with harsh conditions of probation, was recommended by a
                     very senior female probation officer, who personally
                     interviewed both the defendant Turner and the victim.

                     Remember also, even if Turner makes it through his three
                     years of formal probation, unscathed, he still faces a life time
                     of sex registration. Failure to register itself, upon conviction,
                     can result in a separate prison sentence.

                     This was never a light sentence except in the mind of a
                     Michele Dauber who has never practiced criminal law, never
                     had to sentence a defendant after presiding over a jury trial,

                                                     5
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 10:08 AM
                     never read a probation report as part of the sentencing
                     process, or listened to all of the witness on both sides.

                     Cordell on the other hand was both a criminal defense
                     attorney, and a judge, for 20 years or more. She handled
                     and presided over thousands of criminal matters. Cordell is,
                     and always has been, a very strong and relentless advocate
                     for all women, gay, straight, and otherwise. I challenge you
                     to discover otherwise.

                     As the first African American woman to serve on the bench
                     in Santa Clara County, I practiced as a public defender
                     during the same time frame-including in her courtroom, she
                     suffered bullying and attempted intimation from white male
                     judges on the bench. It was gross, it was racist, and it was
                     simply wrong.

                     My point: LaDoris Cordell would be the 1st to call out Persky,
                     and call him out with fury, if he suffered from an over
                     abundance of white male privilege, as a judge, or in his
                     sentencing practices.

                     Stephanie, I hope you will reconsider your position and
                     oppose this outrageous recall campaign.

                     With deep respect,

                     Aram

                     P.S. I look forward to more discussion re this extraordinarily
                     important event in the life of our democracy.

                     On Feb 19, 2018, at 6:51 PM, Stephanie Munoz
                     <stephanie@dslextreme.com> wrote:

                            Aram, you astonish me. First, your analogy
                            limps. Persky is a judge, a government
                            official. What he says from the bench has the
                            force of law and, in this country which is
                            supposed to be a democracy, he speaks for all
                            of us ordinary people. Michelle isn't a judge, or
                            a government official, she isn't even a
                            lawyer! She's just one of hoi polloi, and the
                            lower kind of one, a woman, never elected to
                            any honor so she can't be recalled. She's
                            challenging; she's asking for a referendum.Do
                            we agree that rape is no big deal?

                            You can't agree. You just can't. Would you
                            say to Chief Justice Taney "Yessir boss, I'm
                                                     6
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/19/2018 10:08 AM
                            coming right back as soon as I can get that
                            Underground Railway in reverse."?
                            You've claimed that all sorts of people were
                            unjustly sentenced. I don't understand
                            LaDoris, either. Maybe she's sort of like a nun
                            and just thinks sex is like brushing you hair, but
                            you're not like that. You've known women
                            carnally and al least one of them has borne
                            you children. I think you know that a woman
                            doesn't have to think sex in the only goal in life,
                            but at least she has to be able to tolerate it--a
                            tolerance that rape takes away, so she can't
                            ever feel that special tenderness. If she's
                            impregnated, she has to manufacture from her
                            own body a human being who has very little
                            chance of success or happiness in this world
                            without a father's love and guidance, and living
                            with the knowledge that his father was a rapist
                            and his mother didn't want to conceive
                            him. Abortion isn't a 100% desirable solution
                            and even if her culture permits it, she may not
                            be able to get one. She's been reduced to less
                            than a being with free will who can make a
                            mark on the world, to a creature who exists
                            only to give sexual satisfaction to men,
                            however unworthy, and produce cannon fodder
                            for the likes of
                            Trump. No. No. nonononononononononono..
                            .Your friend and admirer, Stephanie

                            By the way, a couple of weeks ago this same
                            act, apparently of no consequence when
                            performed by a man against his victim's will,
                            was deemed by the high court in California if
                            performed by a woman who has no other skill
                            or resources and needs the money to stay
                            alive and feed her children for accepting
                            money for this useful and comforting service to
                            be a criminal act.




                                                     7
