            DOCUMENTS IN THIS PACKET INCLUDE:


                LETTERS FROM CITIZENS TO THE
                   MAYOR OR CITY COUNCIL


    RESPONSES FROM STAFF TO LETTERS FROM CITIZENS


        ITEMS FROM MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS


      ITEMS FROM OTHER COMMITTEES AND AGENCIES


ITEMS FROM CITY, COUNTY, STATE, AND REGIONAL AGENCIES




       Prepared for:           3/26/2018
       Document dates: 3/7/2018 – 3/14/2018

                                Set 2 of 2
 Note: Documents for every category may not have been received for packet
                      reproduction in a given week.




                                                                      701-32
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/14/2018 8:16 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Rita Vrhel <ritavrhel@sbcglobal.net>
Sent:                          Tuesday, March 13, 2018 11:39 AM
To:                            Council, City; Bobel, Phil; Friend, Gil
Cc:                            Keith Bennett; Esther Nigenda
Subject:                       Fw: Drought restrictions & Water rights



Please see article link below....another reason NOT to extract and waste groundwater. Thank you

“Officials from several irrigation and water agencies said the restrictions are reasonable, but not the
plan to impose them under the state Constitution's prohibition on the waste or unreasonable use of
water. That would create a slippery slope of allowing the board to repeatedly chip away at California's
historic protection of water rights for landowners,” the AP reported, citing water officials.


https://www.wateronline.com/doc/will-cali-bring-back-drought-era-water-cuts-0001



Rita C. Vrhel, RN, BSN, CCM
Medical Case Management
Phone: 650-325-2298
Fax: 650-326-9451




                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 3:23 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Rita Vrhel <ritavrhel@sbcglobal.net>
Sent:                            Thursday, March 08, 2018 9:47 AM
To:                              Council, City; Bobel, Phil
Cc:                              Keith Bennett; Esther Nigenda
Subject:                         Fw: More of the Bay Area Could Be Underwater in 2100 Than Previously Expected - The
                                 New York Times



 Hello..please see fascinating article re sea level rise when combined with the effects of excessive groundwater
extraction..please review, share and consider.. than you



Show original message
:

           https://nyti.ms/2D9Axvr




Rita C. Vrhel, RN, BSN, CCM
Medical Case Management
Phone: 650-325-2298
Fax: 650-326-9451




                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/14/2018 8:16 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Rita Vrhel <ritavrhel@sbcglobal.net>
Sent:                          Tuesday, March 13, 2018 12:25 PM
To:                            Council, City; Friend, Gil
Cc:                            Keith Bennett; Esther Nigenda
Subject:                       Fw: Researchers point to development as a major cause of basement flooding.



Hello..more fascinating information about water, basements and flood risks.


These people have data; fascinating information on costs of basement flooding. Applicable here as we continue
to build and cover porous surfaces.

That is why we of Save Palo Alto's Groundwater propose that all underground development mitigate for the
increase risk of flooding by incorporating green infrastructure- cisterns, rain gardens, green roofs, etc.


"Paving over porous paradise, or any absorbent ground, increases the risk of basement
flooding, say researchers using City of Toronto data."


Thank you Esther for another timely article. Thank you All for reading.


Rita C. Vrhel, RN, BSN, CCM
Medical Case Management
Phone: 650-325-2298
Fax: 650-326-9451


Show original message




                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 3:26 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                               Audrey Gold <audreygold@gmail.com>
Sent:                               Thursday, March 08, 2018 3:33 PM
To:                                 Council, City; Gold, Audrey; safercommutepta@googlegroups.com
Subject:                            Fwd: School Commute Route Safety Project Funding PTA Council Letter
Attachments:                        PTAC Charleston_ArasLetter 2015.pdf; PTACLetterVTAFeb2017 2.pdf;
                                    CityofPaloAltoMarch2018 1.pdf



Date corrected on March 2018 letter.

Regards,
Audrey

---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Audrey Gold <audreygold@gmail.com>
Date: Thu, Mar 8, 2018 at 3:18 PM
Subject: School Commute Route Safety Project Funding PTA Council Letter
To: city.council@cityofpaloalto.org, Audrey Gold <audreygold@gmail.com>,
safercommutepta@googlegroups.com




Dear Palo Alto City Council members,




Please see our letters of support for the Charleston-Arastradero Plan including the most recent titled
"CityofPaloAltoMarch2018."




We know this project will make it safer for many children that walk and bike to school through this busy corridor.




Our PTAs are committed to working with City staff to educate parents and community members of the importance of safe
routes to schools that encourage children and adults to walk and roll to school. This can help to significantly reduce traffic
congestion and create healthier communities.




Sincerely,




Audrey Gold

Palo Alto PTA President
                                                              1
https://ptac.paloaltopta.org/
                                                                       ..
                                                P•lo Alto Council

                                              ,.,,.~g
                                                --Al!i.~
                                                 -~l<)l:ita.org

                                              Palo Alto Council of P'TAs




March 7. 201N



Oe3I Pob Mo City Council Members.

Tho Palo AAo Coonci of PTA$ (PlAC) has been a steac!IO$i wpponer of !ho C°"'leSIOn-AtaS!Jadcro Plan over
many y831'S Piease note the attached 1CttCt PTAC WfOt'e in $Upport when Council unanmous!y apprO'iCd the
Ch.arteston·AmstrOOero pro,ec:t C'I 2015. We atso wrote more recentJy in 2017 to support the Clty"s grant
""'*"''°"     for signol ;m;ng equ.,mcnt funding let the project (also o\10<l>ed) PTAC haS repeatedly supponed
tt\e pro,ect through its various pflascs ot cScvclopment, and we look fQrw_,rd to 1t& expeditious 1mp1emct1tation
now tt\31 ihe c ity h3s Cattrans approvD.ls. 100% plans, and has gone out for bids

w e rue wrding to ;)ffirm our strong s upl)O<l of the projcd as the city consider& l1s Infra.structure funding prionttes.
Please move the protect forw.:lrd as plannc:xt. AftC( more than a decade of \vorklng In JX1rtnership v1ith the Cfly of
Palo Alto und PAUSD on ;his p r()ject, we look forwo:itd to c.ons!tuchon ot lho 10ng~3,v3ited school commute
oofcty hordscape improvements

Th:1nk you ror your ongoing support of Safe Routes to Sd'looL we ~1c gratetf\.11 for the high piiority the city
ploecs on the safety o f commuters of an oges ~ 00.litieS, CSl)CQally our commu.My'$ school commuting
Cfllldren.




Audrey Gold
Preaident. P~10 Alto Councd of PTA s
                                                      Palo Alto Council

                                                      .PTA~
                                                      everych ild. onevoice .

                                                    Palo Alto Council of PTAs
                                                        25 Churchill Avenue
                                                        Palo Alto, CA 94306
                                                        www.paloaltopta.org


3/18/2015


Honorable Planning & Transportation Commission & City Council Members,

The Palo Alto Council of PTAs Traffic Safety Committee has worked closely with city staff on the
Charleston/Arastradero Plan for more than a decade, regularly reviewing and commenting on its
progress. Consistent with our previous support of the project, we respectfully ask you to approve the
recommended Concept Plan Lines for CharlestonArastradero that are now before you.

Charleston/Arastradero connects thousands of nearby residences and neighborhoods to important
walking/bicycling destinations, including :
    •   Eleven public and private elementary, middle, and high schools
    •   Five city parks
    •   Mitchell Park Library & Community Center
    •   Cubberley Community Center & playing fields , TKCJL and the Elks Club
    •   Multiple preschools
    •   Recreational bicycling destinations in the western hills and Baylands

The trial achieved key goals that are important to our Traffic Safety Committee, including:

     1.   Reducing the number of high speed vehicles (those traveling greater than 37mph) during the off-
          peak hours (including after-school commute times) by approximately 50 percent. Speed matters.
          Studies show that a pedestrian is nearly twice as likely to be killed by a vehicle moving 35mph
          than a vehicle moving 28 mph.

     2.   The number of injury accidents for pedestrians and bicyclists on this school commute route
          decreased during the course of the trial while the number and percentage of students bicycling to
          corridor schools rose. That is an important improvement for bicycle and pedestrian safety.

We understand that the last remaining gap in the continuous bike lanes through the challenging El
Camino intersection will be addressed by these plans with Caltrans collaboration.

Please approve the Concept Plan Lines that fine-tune the striping plan that exists now on the corridor.
These plans provide planted medians, intersection and signal improvements, bulb-outs, multi-use paths,
buffered bicycle lanes, a dedicated automobile right tum lane into the Terman campus from east bound
Arastradero, and other built enhancements. The striping trial was the first phase of a redesign of the road
to calm traffic and improve conditions for all road users that has been unanimously approved by city
council. Help complete the vision of the Comprehensive Plan (Program T-41) for this residential arterial
and City of Palo Alto School Commute Corridor. Please approve the Plan Line Concepts. Th is project is a
key component of the south Palo Alto bike boulevard network, connecting PAUSD corridor schools to
residences and after-school destinations.

                     nsidering our comments.


Susan U man
Palo Alto Council of PTAs, President

The Palo Alto Council of PTAs works with the district staff, the Board of Education, community prtrtners and the PTAs at th e 17
schools to support the students and fam1hes of the Palo Alto Unified School District and to improve the education, health anti
welfa1 e of all children ancl outfl.      __          .       -· ..                 .   .. . .   _, __          _.__ , _        _.:.._ '
                                         Palo      Ito Council


                                          .PTA
Ms. Celeste Fiore

Valley Transportation Authority Programming & Grants

3331 North First Street

San Jose, CA 95134



Dear Ms. Fiore,

Please support the City of Palo Alto grant application for Charleston/Arastradero Adaptive Traffic Signal
Timing funds. Palo Alto Council of PTAs fully supports the Charleston IArastradero Plan's implementation
which requires this important signal timing technology.

Charleston/Arastradero connects thousands of nearby residences and neighborhoods to important walking
and bicycling de~tinations, including: elementary, middle and high schools, city parks, community centers,
playing fields, preschools, and recreational and work commute regional bike connections between the western
hills and baylands.

We understand that active traffic signal management supports safe and efficient roadways. The Adaptive
Traffic Signal Timing on Charleston/Arastradero will improve traffic operations by improving travel times,
reducing congestion, and reducing idling, especially during the morning peak hour when crosstown commuter
traffic and school commute traffic converges, creating severe congestion. Traffic signal enhancements will
minimize the number of drivers slowing down suddenly, which also causes pollution. Jn turn, air quality
around our schools and in Palo Alto will be improved.

Adaptive traffic signal timing would enable completion of the transformation of this school commute corridor
that carries nearly 20,000 car trips per day and many hundreds of students on foot and on bicycles to nearby
schools.

Please approve the City of Palo Alto application for funding. We look forward to a safer, more sustainable,
and more efficient street environment for all road users, including PAUSD students.

Thank you.

Sincerely,


~JU
President, Palo Alto Council of PTAs
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 3:24 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         John Kelley <jkelley@399innovation.com>
Sent:                         Thursday, March 08, 2018 2:38 PM
To:                           Council, City
Subject:                      Global Warming Constitutes an Existential Threat to Palo Alto and the World - Part 1
                              (Re April 2, 2018 Agenda, Item TBD (regarding previous City Council Staff Report ID #
                              8716))




                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 3:24 PM
https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/03/07/climate/san-francisco-sinking-land-flooding-climate-
change.html

See also:

http://advances.sciencemag.org/content/4/3/eaap9234/tab-pdf

http://advances.sciencemag.org/content/advances/4/3/eaap9234.full.pdf

https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/63663




                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 3:52 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           California High-Speed Rail <news@hsr.ca.gov>
Sent:                           Friday, March 09, 2018 11:19 AM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        High-Speed Rail Authority Releases Draft 2018 Business Plan, Solicits Public Comments



                                        To view this email as a web page, go here.




       News Release

       March 9, 2018                                                                          Lisa Marie Alley
                                                                                                 916-384-9026
                                                                                        Lisa.Alley@hsr.ca.gov

                                                                                                Annie Parker
                                                                                                916-403-6931
                                                                                     Annie.Parker@hsr.ca.gov



           High-Speed Rail Authority Releases Draft 2018 Business Plan,
                            Solicits Public Comments
       SACRAMENTO, Calif. – With new leadership in place, the California High-Speed Rail Authority
       (Authority) today released the Draft 2018 Business Plan that transparently acknowledges the project’s


                                                            1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 3:52 PM

      challenges and outlines a sensible path forward that will continue to put thousands of Californians to
      work building the nation’s first high-speed rail system.

      “The Draft 2018 Business Plan presents a strategy to implement the nation’s first truly high-speed rail
      system in the face of challenges that projects around the world of similar magnitude and complexity
      have faced and successfully overcome,” said Authority CEO Brian Kelly. “The plan reflects our
      commitment to apply lessons learned and make organizational improvements necessary to deliver
      this project to initiate high-speed rail service between the Silicon Valley and the Central Valley as
      soon as possible, while completing environmental work and making important investments in
      Southern California,” Kelly said.

      The draft business plan acknowledges cost increases affecting each segment of the project ranging
      from 20-35% and revised schedules that would push out delivery dates for the Silicon Valley to
      Central Valley Line and Phase 1 System. The draft plan acknowledges and responds to changed
      circumstances and emphasizes a new way of doing business moving forward.

      In the face of these challenges, the draft business plan proposes to continue an investment strategy
      that builds infrastructure, linked over time, to provide mobility, economic and environmental benefits
      to Californians and initiate high-speed rail service as soon as possible.

      Toward that end, the draft business plan identifies the following investment priorities:

          1. Meet Our Commitments to Federal Funding Partner: The Authority will complete the 119-
             mile segment in the Central Valley and complete environmental review for the entire Phase 1
             System between San Francisco to Los Angeles/Anaheim by 2022, as required by the federal
             grant agreement.
          2. Extend the Valley-to-Valley Service from San Francisco to Bakersfield: The draft
             business plan recognizes the high ridership and revenue potential of linking the Silicon Valley
             with the Central Valley between San Francisco and Bakersfield.
          3. Deliver 224 Miles of High-Speed Rail Ready Infrastructure for Use by 2027: The draft
             business plan proposes to construct high-speed rail ready infrastructure in the Central Valley
             (Madera to Bakersfield) and in Silicon Valley (San Francisco to Gilroy) to reduce travel times
             for existing passenger rail systems, expand clean, electrified service, and prepare the
             corridors for testing and potential early high-speed rail operations.
          4. Continue Bookend Investment in Southern and Northern California: The draft business
             plan continues to prioritize improving Los Angeles Union Station, the Burbank to Anaheim
             corridor and the electrification of the Caltrain corridor in the Bay Area.


      The draft business plan transparently identifies the project’s challenges, which include longer
      schedules and higher costs due in large part to inflation, increased contingencies and construction
      delays in the Central Valley.

      Although high-speed rail continues to face many challenges—major progress has been made on
      many fronts, including:

             20 active construction sites with thousands of Californians working along 119 miles in the
              Central Valley
             Completion of three structures
             Hundreds of businesses planning, designing and building the system—including small
              businesses, disadvantaged businesses and disabled veteran businesses—with more than
              1,699 craft laborers dispatched to work on Central Valley construction projects.




                                                          2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 3:52 PM



      The positive economic benefits from the program are tremendous, including $6 billion in total
      economic activity in California to date. Once operational, high-speed rail will breathe new life into
      local economies by encouraging the movements of residents and visitors between the major regions
      of the state like never before, while at the same time, protecting California’s environment.

      “Building the nation’s first high-speed rail system, consistent with the will of the California voters,
      remains a tremendous challenge, but it is achievable if we remain committed to getting this
      transformative project done,” Kelly stated.

      With the release of today’s draft business plan, the Authority is now seeking public comment as part
      of a 60-day public comment period that starts March 9 and closes May 7, 2018.

      The Authority is providing the following options for submitting comments:


             Online comment form through the Draft 2018 Business Plan website at:
              http://hsr.ca.gov/About/Business_Plans/Draft_2018_Business_Plan_Comments.html
             By email at: 2018businessplancomments@hsr.ca.gov
             By U.S. mail to the Authority:
                  o California High-Speed Rail Authority
                       Attn: Draft 2018 Business Plan
                       770 L Street, Suite 620 MS-1
                       Sacramento, CA 95814
             Voicemail comment at: (916) 384-9516
             Provide public comment at a Board of Directors Meeting being held on March 20
              (Sacramento) and April 17 (Los Angeles).


      The Draft 2018 Business Plan, required by Assembly Bill 528 (Lowenthal, Chapter 237, Statutes of
      2013), can be found online at:
      http://hsr.ca.gov/About/Business_Plans/Draft_2018_Business_Plan.htm


      SEE MORE AT WWW.HSR.CA.GOV
      California High-Speed Rail Authority
      770 L Street, Suite 620
      Sacramento, CA 956814
      info@hsr.ca.gov
      (916) 324-1541




                              This email was sent by: California High-Speed Rail Authority
                                   770 L Street Suite 620, Sacramento, CA, 95814 US

                                                    Privacy Policy

                                                     Unsubscribe




                                                            3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 4:08 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Honor Guards of America <honorguardsofamerica@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Monday, March 12, 2018 11:49 AM
To:                             Kniss, Liz (internal)
Cc:                             Lisa.Crutch@honorguardsofamerica.com; Council, City; Fire; Perron, Zachary; Police
Subject:                        Honor Guards of America presents 2018 Honor Guards Day



Good Afternoon Honorable Liz Kniss,

Honor Guards of America consists of former and retired members of the ceremonial units of the US military,
military veterans, homeland security, first responder agencies (law enforcement, firefighters, and emergency
medical service), and civilians wanting to render respect and honor.

The mission of Honor Guards of America is to:
    Educate the general public about honor guards.
    Preserve the history and traditions relating to honor guards.
    Recognize all honor guards nationwide each year during Honor Guards Day
    Provide assistance to honor guards nationwide with or without honor guard units.

Honor Guards of America is recognizing all honor guards nationwide on July 1st 2018 for Honor Guards Day.
We are asking all Governors, mayors and council members to join the nation in observing these courageous
men and women in your state or local city/county.

Why we're recognizing all honor guards for Honor Guards Day?

Honor Guards of America along with honor guards across the United States serve with honor, dignity and
loyalty; and they demonstrate high regard for the traditions of the United States Military, public safety
organizations, other agencies and honor the veterans who serve our country; and the Honor Guard is comprised
of courageous men and women who have selflessly served in our military, law enforcement, fire service, public
safety, emergency medical service, corrections, other agencies; and all those who wear the uniform of the honor
guard understand the sacrifice and are an important part of the community; and the Honor Guard serves each
community through participation in services for the fallen, presenting the colors with honor and involvement in
community memorials; and the Honor Guard acts as the face of the organization they represent during solemn
times of mourning and remembrance, and provide solace to families and communities during times of grief; and
this is an opportunity to recognize their services and sacrifice, and show appreciation of Honor Guards who
support our communities as we pay tribute and remember those who have selflessly served our cities, counties,
state and nation; with honor, dignity and respect.
Please feel free to join us in recognizing these men and women nationwide in Florida or in your State on Honor
Guards Day July 1st.

Please support our fundraising efforts for the new Museum of Honor Guards, Bagpipes & Drums and let us know if
you’re interested in hosting our event next year

Sincerely,
Lisa A. Crutch
Honor Guards of America Co-Founder


                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 4:08 PM




                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/14/2018 8:16 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Deborah Goldeen <palamino@pacbell.net>
Sent:                             Tuesday, March 13, 2018 1:25 PM
To:                               Council, City
Subject:                          House Purchase Tax?


There are now three houses within a block of my house that are sitting empty and are owned by foreign investors. Talk
about undermining community.

Has anybody considered imposing a surcharge on houses purchased by foreign nationals? I understand the Vancouver
BC is doing that.

Deb Goldeen, 2130 Birch St. (Evergreen Park), 06, 321‐7375




                                                             1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 3:27 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Tiffany Aubin <tmaubin@gmail.com>
Sent:                          Thursday, March 08, 2018 11:12 PM
To:                            Council, City
Subject:                       Letter of support for the Charleston-Arastradero Project
Attachments:                   FairmeadowC-APacket2018.pdf



To whom it may concern,

Please find attached Fairmeadow Elementary School's letter of support for the Charleston-Arastradero Project.

Regards,

Tiffany Aubin
PTA President
Fairmeadow Elementary School




                                                        1
                                  Fairmeadow

                                 .PTA®
                              everychild. one voice.®




March 8, 2018



Palo Alto City Council
City of Palo Alto City Hall
250 Hamilton Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94301

Dear Palo Alto City Council Members,

Over many years, the Fairmeadow Elementary School PTA has supported the
Charleston-Arastradero Plan. Please note the attached letter the Fairmeadow PTA
wrote in support when Council approved the Charleston-Arastradero project in
2015. In addition, we also have attached the letter we sent in 2017 to support the
City's grant application for traffic adaptive signal timing equipment funding for the
project. Fairmeadow Elementary School PTA has repeatedly supported the project
through its various phases of development.

We are writing to affirm our strong support of the project as the City considers its
infrastructure funding priorities. Please move the project forward expediently this
Spring as planned. After more than a decade of working on this project in
partnership with the City of Palo Alto and PAUSD, we look forward to construction
of the long-awaited school commute safety hardscape improvements.

Thank you for your ongoing support of Safe Routes to School.

Sincerely,



Tiffany Aubin
President, Fairmeadow Elementary School PTA




       Fairmeadow Elementary School• 500 East Meadow Drive• Palo Alto, CA 94306
                                          F irm          dow


                                       .PTR
                                  f l't ' ) l   h1 ld.   I'   llt\




March 17, 2015

Fairmeadow PTA
Fairmeadow Elementary School
500 East Meadow Drive
Palo Alto, CA 94306
(650) 856-0845


City of Palo Alto Planning & Transportation Commission & City Council Members:

Fairmeadow PTA continues to support this important school commute route project that
will provide safer automobile , pedestrian , and bicycle connections to schools and after-
school destinations for children others in our attendance boundary area:
     • Eleven public and private elementary, middle, and high schools (including
        Fairmeadow)
     • Preschools
     • Five city parks
     • Mitchell Park Library
     • Three community centers (Mitchell Park, Cubberley, TKCJL)
     • Charleston Shopping Center
     • Playing fields

Please approve the Concept Plan Lines and move the permanent installation of
the Charleston/Arastradero Plan forward as soon as possible.

Thank you for your efforts to make Palo Alto's public streets safer for users of every age
and ability.

Sincerely,

Jamey Boccio                                                         Karrie Chen


                                                               L___
President                                                            Executive Vice President
Fairmeadow PTA                                                       Fairmeadow PTA
                             Fairmeadow Elementary School




February 24, 2017



Ms. Celeste Fiore
Valley Transportation Authority Programming & Grants
3331 North First Street
San Jose, CA 95134

Dear Ms. Fiore,

Please support the City of Palo Alto application for grant funding for Charleston/Arastradero
Adaptive Traffic Signal Timing.

Fairmeadow Elementary School supports the Charleston/Arastradero Plan which will provide
safer automobile, pedestrian, and bicycle connections to schools and after-school destinations for
children and others in our attendance boundary area:

   •   Public and private elementary, middle, and high schools (including Fairmeadow)
   •   Preschools
   •   Five city parks
   •   Mitchell Park Library
   •   Two community centers (Mitchell Park Community Center & Cubberley Community
       Center)
   •   The Campus for Jewish Life
   •   Charleston Shopping Center
   •   Playing fields

Fairmeadow PTA works with the city and school district to encourage active, alternative school
commutes, so we consider the safety of this corridor to be a very high priority.

Active traffic signal management supports safe and efficient roadways. The Adaptive Traffic
Signal Timing on Charleston/Arastradero will improve traffic operations by improving travel
times, reducing congestion, and reducing idling, especially during the morning peak hour when
crosstown commuter traffic and school commute traffic converges, creating severe congestion.
Traffic signal enhancements will minimize the number of drivers slowing down suddenly, which
also causes pollution. In turn, air quality around our schools and in Palo Alto will be improved.




                  500 East Meadow Drive Palo Alto, CA 94306
    Phone (650) 856-0845 FAX (650) 852-9436 WEB www.fairmeadowschool.org
Adaptive traffic signal timing would enable completion of the transformation of this school
commute corridor that carries nearly 20,000 car trips per day and many hundreds of students on
foot and on bicycles to nearby schools, including Fairmeadow.

Please support the City of Palo Alto application for funding. We look forward to a safer and
more efficient Charleston-Arastradero School Commute corridor. Thank you.

Sincerely,

~·
Tiffany Aubin
President, Fairmeadow Elementary School PTA
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/14/2018 7:38 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Jeremy and Jessica <jermsica@comcast.net>
Sent:                              Monday, March 12, 2018 6:56 PM
To:                                Planning Commission; Council, City
Cc:                                'Palo Alto Forward Board'
Subject:                           Letter to Council and PTC from Jessica Clark
Attachments:                       March 14 PTC Meeting -Jessica Clark.docx


Greetings to City Council and the PTC,
I have prepared a letter to you both in hopes to explain my family’s personal history in Palo Alto along with our 6 year
experience on the BMR Purchase Program waiting list with Palo Alto Housing. I hope to attend the 3/14 meeting and say
these words to you personally, however it falls upon my oldest child’s 15th birthday. I am trying to arrange our family
dinner around this meeting. Although I know the project on the table will in no way help my family’s personal situation,
I still support any and every effort made towards the creation of low income/affordable housing in Palo Alto, whether it
be for seniors, disabled, veterans, teachers, first responders, etc. I encourage any of you on the City Council and the PTC
and reach out to me to learn more about our daily lives, we cannot expect these struggling groups of citizens to show up
at city council meetings, sometimes you might need to go to them. Thank you in advance for taking the time to read
this.
Respectfully,
Jessica Oakson Clark




                                                             1
                                                                                                           March 12th, 2018

Dear PTC and City Council,

I am a mother of 3 children in PAUSD at Gunn, JLS, and Palo Verde. My husband and I were both born and raised right
here in Palo Alto. My children are the 4th generation of our family to live here. Our parents have chosen to age in place
here along with my 102-year-old grandmother. It is something rare and special that one does not come across often in
this day and age. We know we are fortunate to have been able to remain here as long as we have in order to help care
for them. My brother and sister-in-law both work and teach in the special education department at Paly. However, just
this month due to rental increases they have now had to move further away out of the area. In the past, they utilized
public transportation or rode their bikes to work. Unfortunately, now they will have to commute by car and add to the
traffic congestion.

My husband is a respiratory therapist at a hospital and I was the owner of Clark Family Daycare for 7 years nestled in a
cute house right behind Palo Verde Elementary. Six years ago, skyrocketing rental prices forced me to close my daycare,
lose my income, move into a much smaller space for twice the rent, and become eligible for the BMR Purchase Program.
We applied with Palo Alto Housing and were given a number on the waiting list. We were in the mid 300’s. In the six
years since we have been on the list our family has struggled terribly to make ends meet, while our rents just keep rising.
In one instance our rent was increased nearly $1000. Applying and qualifying for scholarships and assistance for our
family is something we never imagined we would ever have to do, but sadly now it is our reality.

Our current number on the BMR list is 184. This is not due to 120 families on the list receiving an opportunity to
purchase a unit. This is because these people have given up and left. I do not blame them. If my husband and I did not
have such strong family roots and support we would be gone as well. It is a completely stressful and hopeless feeling
that we constantly deal with every day. Many days I too just want to give up, yet my connection to this community and
my family gives me no other choice but to continue on and tell my story.

Over these last few years I have become involved with the civic process by attending City Council meetings and speaking
up about housing by sharing my family’s story. It is extremely difficult for families like mine or others in even more dire
situations to stand up at City Council and share their most personal struggles and experience. This is one of the reasons
you see so few of us. When given the right situation they will share their stories. For example, in January, County
Supervisor Joe Simitian hosted a Teacher Town Hall at Gunn High School. It was there, in a safe setting, on their terms,
over 100 teachers felt comfortable enough to share their personal family struggles. It was truly heartbreaking to hear
how our lack of affordable housing and long commutes has affected our teachers and their families’ quality of life. I
think it would have been very informative for any of the PTC or City Council members to of been in attendance.

I strongly urge the PTC and City Council to remove needless barriers that stand in the way or delay the creation of 100%
affordable/low-income housing. There are far too many families and people in our community who are truly struggling
right now and are running out of time. It feels as though my family and many others are just holding on by a thread,
while those opposed to the creation of low income/affordable housing are holding an open pair of scissors over it
waiting to decide whether to simply cut our rope or to let us dangle a little bit longer until we are so worn out we let go.
I don’t want to let go and I do not want my family’s rope to be cut.

Thank you for listening to my story.

Respectfully,

Jessica Clark
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 4:13 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Kenney Mencher <kenney.mencher@gmail.com>
Sent:                             Monday, March 12, 2018 1:21 PM
To:                               Council, City; tomforcouncil@gmail.com; Filseth, Eric (Internal); Holman, Karen; Scharff,
                                  Greg; Kniss, Liz (internal); news@padailypost.com; price@padailypost.com; Vicki
                                  Vaughn
Subject:                          Message from the City Council Home Page



Dear Council Members,

On March 6th and then several weeks before I emailed the city council and used a form server on the Palo Alto
website to contact the city council. I have not received a message back nor has there been any action taken on
this. I know it seems like a little thing but it affects the quality of life in my neighborhood so I am writing again
to see if you might have some empathy for my several of your neighbors concerns.

I even messaged Mr. Scharff through Linkedin yesterday to ask for help with a growing problem in a several
block radius in the area of Alma, High Street, Everett Streets.

It seems like now many of the residences, especially those that have rental units where the landlord does not
reside and where now commercial businesses reside don not clean up after themselves nor do they take there
trash cans in. The trash cans re left in the streets taking up parking and it seems like many other neighbors
seeing this feel like it's alright to follow there examples.

I know that Eric feels very strongly about the condition of his property because while I was cleaning up after
my dog on the edge of his lot he came out of his home to make sure that my wife and I had completely cleaned
up my dogs' waste. Twice.

I was wondering if you all might be able to take an interest in our neighborhood with the same enthusiasm?

Below my signature is a copy of the messages that I've already sent out. Along with a message from my
neighbor.

Thank you in advance for your attention to this issue.


Kenney Mencher
Phone: (510) 390-3952
Kenney.Mencher@gmail.com

http://www.kenney-mencher.com/
http://www.etsy.com/shop/kmencher
http://www.youtube.com/user/kmencher




        Kenney                                                                                              Mar 6 (6 days ago)
        Mencher   <kenney.mencher@gmail.com>
        to tom.dubois, eric.filseth, Adrian.Fine, karen.holman, Lydia.Kou, greg.tanaka, cory.wolbach, Vicki, JV
                                                            1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 4:13 PM

      Last week I used a formserver to report the following problem but I still haven't heard back from the city and
      it seems like the problem is growing. Can you please help with this?

      Hi,
      In the last couple of months many of my neighbors have been leaving their bins, cans, and loose garbage out either
      on the curb or in the street blocking parking and traffic. I asked the landlord at 183 Everett to take in his cans and he
      told me he would not.

      The businesses at the corner of High Street and Everett has left 6 cans out in across several parking spaces, this
      includes the businesses at Alma and Everett, and over on Hawthorn and High Street the apartment complex has all
      their bins, cans, bedframes and loose cardboard sitting on the street as well as many large cardboard boxes which
      are rotting on the curb.

      It seems like once one of the neighbors started doing it everyone is doing it. Is there a regulation about this? I thought
      we were supposed to bring the bins in every week?

      Thank you, Kenney Mencher
      192 Everett Ave at Emerson St 510-390-3952


      My Contact Info

      First Name: Kenney

      Last Name: Mencher

      Email Address kenney.mencher@gmail.com


      Please choose your neighborhood of residence. If you're not a resident, but work in Palo Alto, choose
      "Commuter". If you neither reside or work in Palo Alto, choose "Other".

      Your Neighborhood Downtown North



      If City Staff needs more information about your submission, and you consent to this contact, you MUST
      check "Yes" below.


      Okay to Contact Me? Yes



      My Reason For Contacting the City

      Select A Topic Garbage/Recycling



      Address and Cross Street are required.
      To indicate and intersection, type first street name in the "address" field and second street in the "Cross
      Street" field.
      If your message is not location-related type "none" in both fields.


      Address 192 Everett Avenue

      Cross Street Emerson

      My Message or Comments Hi, In the last couple of months many of my neighbors have been leaving their bins, cans,
      and loose garbage out either on the curb or in the street blocking parking and traffic. I asked the landlord at 183
                                                                2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 4:13 PM
      Everett to take in his cans and he told me he would not. The businesses at the corner of High Street and Everett has
      left 6 cans out in across several parking spaces, this includes the businesses at Alma and Everett, and over on
      Hawthorn and High Street the apartment complex has all their bins, cans, bedframes and loose cardboard sitting on
      the street as well as many large cardboard boxes which are rotting on the curb. It seems like once one of the
      neighbors started doing it everyone is doing it. Is there a regulation about this? I thought we were supposed to bring
      the bins in every week? Thank you, Kenney Mencher 192 Everett Ave at Emerson St 510-390-3952



      When you email the City, your email address becomes a public record. If you do not wish your email address
      to become a public record, send your correspondence via postal mail to the City of Palo Alto, Office of the
      City Clerk.


      I accept the terms above. Yes




      Referring Page



      Kenney Mencher
      Phone: (510) 390-3952
      Kenney.Mencher@gmail.com

      http://www.kenney-mencher.com/
      http://www.etsy.com/shop/kmencher
      http://www.youtube.com/user/kmencher




                                                              3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 3:16 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Fred Balin <fbalin@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Wednesday, March 07, 2018 8:55 PM
To:                              Council, City
Cc:                              Stump, Molly; Gitelman, Hillary; City Mgr
Subject:                         My Comments at Last Monday's (3/5) Item 16



Mayor Kniss; your fellow council members,
Fred Balin of College Terrace.

Your item Number 6 on Staff Report page 5, regarding the location of a garage or carport on an R-1 lot.

The longstanding code, summarized:
If the neighborhood pattern of the garage or carport location is in the rear half of the lot, then in your building
plan, there can be no attached garage in the front half.

But what about putting a carport in the front half?

Not the intent of the code, only a small handful of such cases, so clarify the language, staff said when the very
first annual code update came to the planning commission in September of two thousand and fifteen, with a
matrix of 62 items deemed non controversial.

At each of the three meetings, Commissioner Michael Alcheck argued that the clarifications on this item would
be a policy change and should be discussed separately.

He did not reveal that within the previous 10 weeks, applications for two abutting R-1 properties, in which he
had economic interests were granted such an exception.

By his failure to disclose, the commission and the public were not fully informed.

And by his successful effort to scuttle any discussion, the question of whether a carport exception in the
front could later be converted into an attached garage could not be raised. A legitimate concern, as signaled by
one savvy and straight-on public servant, who wrote in large letters on one of the plans, "No conversion
of carport to attached front garage."

And last year, following final building approvals in May, on August the 28th, applications were indeed
submitted for each property to convert the existing carport to a garage.

And when the Planning Commission met two months later, on November the 29th, to start this next round of
code updates, no permit for conversion had been issued.

And once again, there was no disclosure by Commissioner Alcheck, or a recusal. Instead he participated in
discussions, which could have had a direct relevance to his permits.

Staff re-presented the same code clarifications as two years before, your Item 6. And they also included changes
to the definitions of carport and garage, your item 7.

                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 4:05 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Sunday, March 11, 2018 3:55 PM
To:                             roberta.ahlquist@sjsu.edu
Subject:                        PA PD Draft Policy on Body Cameras




       Hi Commissioner Lee,

       Thanks for the heads-up. I will do my best to attend this important meeting.

       1. Please be aware that there is substantial controversy re allowing officers to review footage
       from body-worn cameras, and or in-vehicle camera footage, prior to officers writing their police
       reports. This proposed policy apparently allows officers to in fact review footage before drafting
       reports. This is much like allowing witnesses to an incident to compare recollections of any
       incident before testifying. Fact finders, the court sitting alone, or a jury, should be allowed to
       hear the independent testimony of each witness uncontaminated by the statements or
       recollections of other witnesses. It is for this reason that courts exclude witnesses from a
       courtroom while other witnesses to the proceedings are testifying. An officer should not be
       allowed to alter his or her independent recollection of events by viewing footage of the incident
       he or she may not have actually observed while the incident was occurring.

       2. Although this policy allows for those arrested by the police to obtain the footage of the
       incident pursuant to criminal discovery practice, there is no similar right for a person, as an
       example, brutally beaten by the police, but not arrested, to obtain the same footage. We the
       public pay for the cameras and should be entitled to view the footage where we believe the
       police have acted inappropriately, whether we were arrested or not. Often the police will release
       body-worn footage, or footage captured by police car cameras, when the footage shows the
       police in a favorable light, while refusing to release footage police believe will expose police
       misconduct. Such a double standard erodes public trust in law enforcement and should not be
       tolerated.

       3. Some body-worn camera policies allow police to turn off their cameras when taking with
       police informants aka snitches. The rationale often given is that police informants will be
       reluctant to talk with police out of fear of exposure if they are recorded. One of the leading
       causes of wrongful convictions is the false testimony of police informants. The better policy is to
       require that conversations between police and informants should be recorded, but not released to
       the defense or prosecution without appropriate protective orders.

       4. The Police Executive Research Forum

       On Mar 4, 2018, at 7:47 PM, Steven D. Lee <stevendlee@alumni.duke.edu> wrote:



                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 4:05 PM
              FYI for this Thursday's meeting.

              https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/63809
              https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/63807




                                                           2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 4:07 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Public Records Request Tracking System <public.records.request.tracking@gmail.com>
Sent:                              Monday, March 12, 2018 7:45 AM
To:                                Stump, Molly; Perron, Zachary; Jonsen, Robert; Lum, Patty; Keene, James; Council, City
Cc:                                acisneros@CApublicrecordslaw.com
Subject:                           Palo Alto Police Photos
Attachments:                       CPRA_Response_Letter1_-_MPP__W001103-021218_Promotion_Info_(2-22).pdf


City Attorney Molly Stump:

Re: California Public Records Request W001103-021218

CPRA mandates a detailed response on any delays.

1. Delay March 7th. No explanation / None cited.
2. Delay March 21st No explanation None cited.




Please provide a detailed explanation as mandated...

Thanks,

Mark Petersen-Perez
Editor: Palo Alto Free Press
Ticuantepe, Nicaragua 🇳🇮




Sent from my iPad




                                                            1
           POLICE DEPARTMENT

           275 Forest Avenue
           Palo Alto, CA 94301
           650.329.2406


February 22, 2018


VIA EMAIL
Mark Petersen-Perez
public.records.request.tracking@gmail.com

RE: California Public Records Act Request Dated February 12, 2018 – W001103-021218

Dear Mr. Mark Petersen-Perez,

This letter is in response to your California Public Records Act Request dated February 12, 2018 in which you
requested certain records of the City of Palo Alto relating to promotional information, pursuant to the California
Public Records Act, (CPRA) Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 6250 et seq.

Records Request:

“recently announce Palo Alto Police Officer promotions by police chief Robert Jonsen,
1. Names
2. Promotion from and to (Rank)
3. Pictures and if declining to do so, please cite legal reasons for doing so as CPRA mandates.
4. Salaries”

Response to Request:

The names and ranks from and to are as follows:

 Name                        Previous Rank                        Promotional Rank
 Zach Perron                 Lieutenant                           Captain
 Patty Lum                   Lieutenant                           Captain
 Kara Apple                  Sergeant                             Lieutenant
 James Reifschneider         Sergeant                             Lieutenant
 DuJuan Green                Agent                                Sergeant
 Jesus Paneda                Agent                                Sergeant
 Eric Bulatao                Agent                                Sergeant
 Dave Pecoraro               Officer                              Agent
 Carlos De Santiago          Officer                              Agent
 Chris Moore                 Officer                              Agent
 Michael Foley               Officer                              Agent
 Erin Goodell                Officer                              Agent
 Brad Young                  Officer                              Agent
 Mark Chase                  Lead Public Safety Dispatcher        Public Safety Communications Manager


                                                                                                                     1
City of Palo Alto Salary information is located at the following City of Palo Alto Website Open Data portal. Here is
the Link: http://data.cityofpaloalto.org/search/?q=salaries&page=2

With regard to your request for pictures of officers, the City is in the process of gathering and reviewing those
records. We anticipate a response to this specific records request will be released to you on or before Wednesday
March 7, 2018.

Thank you,

Lisa Scheff
Public Safety Program Manager/Records
Palo Alto Police Department
650.329-2406/650.329- 2553
Lisa.scheff@cityofpaloalto.org




                                                                                                                       2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 3:21 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com>
Sent:                         Thursday, March 08, 2018 8:37 AM
To:                           Palo Alto Free Press; Council, City; citycouncil@menlopark.org;
                              council@redwoodcity.org
Subject:                      Re: Pending Litigation - The People’s right to know




Sent from my iPhone

> On Mar 8, 2018, at 7:30 AM, Palo Alto Free Press <paloaltofreepress@gmail.com> wrote:
>
>
>
https://static1.squarespace.com/static/5a57b24e01002738e0ef8e1e/t/5aa01f7a53450acab4d506b3/1520443268456/R
edwood+City+Police+Photograph+Petition.pdf
>
>
> <Redwood+City+Police+Photograph+Petition.pdf>
>
>
> Mark Petersen‐Perez
> Editor: Palo Alto Free Press
> Ticuantepe, Nicaragua 🇳🇮
>
>
> Sent from my iPad




                                                       1
 1 Abenicio Cisneros [SBN 302765]
   268 Park View Terrace
 2 Oakland, CA 94610
   707-653-0438
 3 acisneros@capublicrecordslaw.com
 4   Attorney for MARK PETERSEN-PEREZ

 5

 6

 7                  SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

 8                           FOR THE COUNTY OF SAN MATEO

 9
10 MARK PETERSEN-PEREZ                        )   Case No.:
                                              )
11                         Petitioner,        )   VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF
                                              )   MANDATE UNDER THE CALIFORNIA
12        vs.                                 )   PUBLIC RECORDS ACT
                                              )
                                              ~
13   REDWOOD CITY POLICE DEPARTMENT,
                                                [California Constitution Article I § 3; Gov't
14                                            ) Code§ 6250, et seq. Civ. Proc. Code§ 1085,
                          Respondent.         ) seq.]
15                                            )
                                              )
16
                                              ~   Department:
17                                            )
                                              )
18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

        VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE UNDER THE CALIFORNIA PUBLIC RECORDS ACT
 1                                                INTRODUCTION

 2            1.     This is a suit to enforce the California Public Records Act ("CPRA") as it pertains to

 3 the identity, in the form of photographs, of law enforcement officers involved in a shooting. In

 4 response to a public records request, Respondent Redwood City Police Department ("Respondent")

 5 provided the names of the seven officers involved in the December 30, 2017, shooting and killing of

 6 Marco Antonio Carlos in Redwood City. However, Respondent denied Petitioner's request for "all

 7 personnel photographs of all officers" involved.

 8            2.     In denying the request, Respondent cited the personnel records/privacy exemption in

 9 Cal. Gov't Code§ 6254(c) 1; the "otherwise prohibited by law" exemption in §6254(k); and the

10 "catch-all" exemption-claiming that the public interest in non-disclosure clearly outweighs the

11   public interest in disclosure-in§ 6255(a).

12            3.     While Respondent claims it can lawfully withhold the records, two California

13   Supreme Court cases-Commission on Peace Officer Standards and Training v. Superior Court

14 (2007) 42 Cal.4th 278, and Long Beach Police Officers Association v. City of Long Beach (2014) 59

15   Cal.4th 59--establish that officer identity is presumptively public. Law enforcement officer

16 photographs, like names, are not exempt from disclosure as a personnel record, nor are they private;

17 no other law, including the Pitchess statutes, prohibits disclosure of officer photographs; and,

18 generally, the public interest in the disclosure of officer photographs outweighs the public interest in

19 non-disclosure, particularly if that officer has been involved in a shooting. While the precedent

20 considered the disclosure of identity in the form of names, the reasoning in those cases applies

21   directly to photographs and does not support withholding photographs where names must be

22 disclosed.

23            4.     Further undermining Respondent's claim that it is entitled to withhold officer

24 photographs under the CPRA is the fact that Respondent routinely posts photographs of its officers

25   on its website and social media. Specifically, photographs of three of the officers involved in the

26 Carlos shooting are posted on Respondent's website. Respondent cannot have it both ways by

27

28
     1
         Unless otherwise stated, all references to code sections are to the Cal. Gov't Code.
                                                                   -I -
            VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE UNDER THE CALIFORNIA PUBLIC RECORDS ACT
 1 distributing photographs of officers for positive publicity, while withholding photographs from

 2 journalists and the public in response to CPRA requests.

 3          5.      Therefore, by this petition and pursuant to the Code of Civ. Procedure§§ 1085, et

 4 seq. and Gov't Code§§ 6250, et seq., Petitioner seeks a writ of mandate to enforce the CPRA by

 5 compelling the Redwood City Police Department to produce the requested photographs of the seven

 6 officers involved in the shooting and killing of Marco Antonio Carlos.

 7

 8                                                  PARTIES

 9          6.      Petitioner Mark Petersen-Perez is a member of the public within the meaning of

10 Gov't Code §§ 6252(b)-(c ). Petitioner is a journalist, activist, and government watchdog who

11   operates the Palo Alto Free Press and who actively opposes police misconduct, racial profiling,

12 police use of tasers, and police abuse of homeless individuals in and around Santa Clara County and

13   San Mateo County.

14          7.      Respondent the Redwood City Police Department is located in San Mateo County,

15   California. Respondent is a local public agency within the meaning of§ 6252( d).

16

17                                      JURISDICTION AND VENUE

18          8.      This court has jurisdiction under Gov't Code §§ 6258, 6259, Code of Civ. Proc.

19 § 1085, and Article VI, Section 10 of the California Constitution.

20          9.      Venue is proper in this Court. The records in question, or some portion of them, are

21   situated in the County of San Mateo, Gov't Code§ 6259; the acts or omissions complained of

22 occurred in the County of San Mateo, Code of Civ. Proc.§ 393; finally, Respondents are located in

23   the County of San Mateo, Code of Civ. Proc.§ 395.

24

25                                        FACTUAL ALLEGATIONS

26          10.     On December 30, 2018, Marco Antonio Carlos was shot and killed by law

27 enforcement in Redwood City. According to the Washington Post, Carlos was one of987 people

28   shot and killed by police in the United States in 2017. (See

                                               -2-
         VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE UNDER THE CALIFORNIA PUBLIC RECORDS ACT
 1 https://www.washingtonpost.com/graphics/national/police-shootings-2017/). The shooting and

 2   killing of individuals by police officers is a major issue of public concern and has prompted

 3   numerous public demonstrations in the San Francisco Bay Area and across the United States.

 4          11.     On January 6, 2018, Petitioner submitted a CPRA request for all personnel

 5   photographs of all officers involved in the shooting and killing of Carlos. Respondent, in a January

 6   17, 2018, response to a different CPRA request, disclosed the names of seven Redwood City Police

 7 Department officers involved in the shooting. Those officers' names are Sergeant Nick Perna,

 8   Sergeant Ed Conover, Officer Junsun Lee, Officer Richard Santiago, Officer Mark Alifano, Officer

 9 Dave Denning, and Officer Ryan Kimber. A true and correct copy of Respondent's January 17,

10 2018, CPRA response disclosing the names of the officers is attached as Exhibit A.

11          12.     On January 17, 2018, Respondent also replied to Petitioner's CPRA request.

12 Respondent denied Petitioner's request and withheld all requested photographs. In supporting its

13   denial, Respondent cited the following three exemptions under the heading "Authority:"

14                  1. California Government Code § 6254( c): Personnel, medical, or similar
                    files, the disclosure of which would constitute an unwarranted invasion of
15                  personal privacy.
                    2. California Government Code§ 6254 (k): Records, the disclosure of
16
                    which is exempt or prohibited pursuant to federal or state law, including,
17                  but not limited to, provisions of the Evidence Code relating to privilege.
                    3. California Government Code§ 6255 (a): "The public interest served by
18                  not disclosing the record clearly outweighs the public interest served by
                    disclosure of the record."
19
     A true and correct copy of Respondent's January 17, 2018, letter denying Petitioner's CPRA
20
     request is attached as Exhibit B.
21

22
            13.     Despite Respondent's refusal to provide photographs to Petitioner in this instance,

     Respondent publicizes the photographs of many of its officers on its website at
23
     https://www.redwoodcity.org/departments/police-department and on its social media. Specifically,
24
     Respondent's website contains photographs of three of the officers involved in the Carlos shooting-
25
26   Sergeant Nick Perna, Officer Junsun Lee, and Officer Richard Santiago-whose photographs appear

     as part of a .pdf memorializing the 2016 annual Redwood City Police Department Awards
27
     Ceremony. Find a true and correct copy of the officers' photographs as they appeared on
28

                                                      - 3-
         VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE UNDER THE CALIFORNIA PUBLIC RECORDS ACT
 1 Respondent's website attached as Exhibit C. Find photographs Respondent has posted of other

 2 officers on its social media attached as Exhibit D.

 3

 4                                        FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION

 5         VIOLATION OF THE CALIFORNIA CONSTITUTION ARTICLE 1, SECTION 3(b)

 6           14.     Petitioner incorporates herein by reference the allegations of paragraphs 1 through 13

 7 above, as if set forth in full.

 8           15.     The California Constitution provides an independent right of access to government

 9 records: "The People have the right of access to information concerning the conduct of the people's

10 business, and, therefore, the meetings of public bodies and the writings of public officials and

11   agencies shall be open to public scrutiny." Cal. Constitution, Art. 1 § 3(b)(l). This provision was

12 adopted by the voters in 2004 because, as the ballot argument supporting the measure states, when

13   Californians asked questions of their government they increasingly found "that answers are hard to

14 get." The constitutional provision is intended to reverse that trend.

15           16.     Respondent's failure to provide records in response to Petitioner's public records

16 request violated Article 1, Section 3(b) of the California Constitution.

17

18                                         SECOND CAUSE OF ACTION

19                    VIOLATION OF THE CALIFORNIA PUBLIC RECORDS ACT

20                                      GOV'T CODE § 6250, et seq.

21           17.     Petitioner incorporates herein by reference the allegations of paragraphs 1 through 16

22   above, as if set forth in full.

23           General principles of the California Public Records Act
24           18.     Under the California Public Records Act,§ 6250 et seq., all records that are

25   prepared, owned, used, or retained by any public agency, and that are not subject to the CPRA' s

26 statutory exemptions to disclosure, must be made publicly available for inspection and copying

27 upon request. § 6253.

28           19.      Under the CPRA, the term "public record" includes any "writing" containing

                                                      -4-
         VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE UNDER THE CALIFORNIA PUBLIC RECORDS ACT
 1 information relating to the conduct of the people's business. § 6252(e). Photographs are "writings"

 2 subject to the CPRA. § 6252(g).

 3          20.     Where an agency withholds responsive records on the basis of a statutory exemption,

 4 "the agency ... must disclose that fact." Haynie v. Superior Court (2001) 26 Cal. 4th 1061, 1072

 5 (citing§ 6255). The agency bears the burden of justifying nondisclosure.§ 6255(a). Even if parts of

 6 a particular document are exempt, the agency must disclose the remainder of the document. §

 7 6253(a).

 8          21.     If an agency discloses a public record that is otherwise exempt, the disclosure shall

 9 constitute a waiver of the exemptions specified in§ 6254, §6254.7, or other similar provisions of

10 law. § 6254.5.

11          22.     If an agency fails to comply with these statutory provisions, the CPRA authorizes a

12 person to file a petition for writ of mandate to enforce their right to inspect or to receive a copy of

13   the record. § 6258.

14          23.     Whenever it is made to appear by verified petition to the superior court of the county

15 where the records or some part thereof are situated that certain public records are being improperly

16 withheld from a member of the public, the court shall order the officer or person charged with

17 withholding the records to disclose the public record or show cause why he or she should not do so.

18 The court shall decide the case after examining the record in camera (if permitted by the Evidence

19 Code), papers filed by the parties, and any oral argument and additional evidence as the court may

20 allow. § 6259(a).

21          24.     The CPRA contains a mandatory attorney's fee provision for the prevailing plaintiff.

22   § 6259(d). The purpose of the attorney's fee provision is to provide "protections and incentives for

23   members of the public to seek judicial enforcement of their right to inspect public records subject to

24 disclosure." Filarsky v. Superior Court (2002) 28 Cal.4th 419, 427.

25          The Redwood City Police Department violated the CPRA when it withheld
            photographs of officers involved in the Carlos shooting.
26
            25.     Photographs of police officers are presumptively disclosable public records, and
27
     Respondent cannot meet its burden to justify non-disclosure. The public interest in the identities of
28

                                                       - 5-
         VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE UNDER THE CALIFORNIA PUBLIC RECORDS ACT
 1 officers, including their photographs, outweighs the officers' privacy interest in those records. No

 2 law, including the Pitchess statues, prohibits disclosure of officer photographs. Respondent's

 3 disclosure of the names of the officers involved in the shooting establishes that there is no

 4 particularized threat sufficient to withhold the officer's photographs under the catch-all exemption.

 5 Finally, even assuming, arguendo, the officers' photographs may have been exempt, Respondent

 6 waived any exemption as to the three officers whose photographs appear on Respondent's website.

 7          26.     Respondent cannot lawfully withhold the records on the basis of§ 6254(c) because

 8 disclosure of officers' photographs does not constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy.

 9 Courts have found that the public has a strong interest in the identity of law enforcement officers,

10 while officers typically have only a weak privacy interest in protecting their identity from

11   disclosure. See Commission on Peace Officer Standards and Training v. Superior Court (2007) 42

12 Cal.4th 278 (Commission on Peace Officer Standards); Long Beach Police Officers Association v.

13   City of Long Beach (2014) 59 Cal.4th 59 (City ofLong Beach). The Legislature's enactment of

14 Penal Code § 830.10, which requires uniformed officers to display their names or identification

15 number, demonstrates that the Legislature did not intend to protect officers' identities. City ofLong

16 Beach, supra, at 72. The California Supreme Court, in finding that no well-established social norm

17 protects the identity of law enforcement officers, recognized that officers "operate in the public

18 realm on a daily basis and identify themselves to the members of the public with whom they deal."

19 Commission on Peace Officer Standards, supra, at 301. Further, the Legislature did not intend to

20 classify official service photographs as "personal data" protected from disclosure under the Pitchess

21   statutes and an officer's appearance, as disclosed in an official service photograph, is information

22 that ordinarily is known to persons that the officer comes into contact with. Ibarra v. Superior

23   Court (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 695, 704 (Ibarra). Thus, Respondent cannot establish that§ 6254(c)

24 permits it to withhold officer photographs.

25          27.     Respondent cannot lawfully withhold the records on the basis of § 6254(k) because

26 no other law, including the Pitchess statutes, prohibits disclosure. In denying Petitioner's request,
27 Respondent cited to§ 6254(k), which permits withholding records by incorporating other disclosure

28 prohibitions established by law. Copley Press, Inc. v. Superior Court (2006) 39 Cal.4th 1272, 1283.

                                                -6-
         VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDA TE UNDER THE CALIFORNIA PUBLIC RECORDS ACT
 1 Here, in citing § 6254(k), Respondent did not cite to any specific statute under which it claimed it

 2 could withhold records. However, it is clear that the so-called Pitchess statutes contained in Penal

 3 Code § 832. 7 and § 832.8 do not prohibit disclosure of the photographs because the photographs are

 4 not personnel records as described by Penal Code§ 832.8. Ibarra, supra, at 704.

 5          28.     Respondent cannot lawfully withhold the records on the basis of the catchall

 6 exemption in§ 6255(a) because the public interest in non-disclosure does not clearly outweigh the

 7 public interest in disclosure. The balancing done under§ 6255(a) often mirrors that under §6254(c)

 8 and, just as Respondent cannot support its withholding under § 6254(c) it cannot do so under §

 9 6255(a). The public's significant interest in the conduct of its peace officers "diminishes and

10 counterbalances" an officer's privacy interest in keeping their name confidential. Commission on

11   Peace Officer Standards, supra, at 299. When officers are involved in a shooting, the balance tips

12 strongly in favor of "identity disclosure" and against the personal privacy interests of the officers

13   involved. City ofLong Beach, supra, at 74. The fact that Respondent already released the names of

14 its officers involved in the Carlos shooting shows that there is no legitimate reason to shield the

15 identities of those particular officers. The fact that Respondent regularly posts photographs of its

16 officers on its website and via its social media shows that, generally, it believes there is no strong

17 public interest in non-disclosure of officer photographs. Thus, Respondent cannot meet its burden to

18 show that the public interest in non-disclosure "clearly outweighs" the public interest in disclosure

19 as required by § 6255(a). Rather, it is clear that, as it pertains to photographs of officers involved in

20 shootings, the balance tilts heavily in favor of disclosure.

21          29.     Finally, assuming, arguendo, some exemption did apply to permit non-disclosure of

22 the requested photographs, Respondent waived that exemption as it applies to the three officers

23   whose photographs appear on Respondent's website. An agency's disclosure of records waives its

24 ability to withhold those records subject to an exemption to the CPRA. § 6254.5. Here, Respondent

25   posted photographs on its website of three of the officers involved in the Carlos shooting. See

26 Exhibit C. Thus, as to those officers, Respondent has waived any exemptions to the CPRA which

27 may apply.

28          30.     As such, Respondent's refusal to provide the requested photographs violates the

                                                       -7-
         VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE UNDER THE CALIFORNIA PUBLIC RECORDS ACT
 1 CPRA. Law enforcement agencies cannot publicize photographs of officers to increase goodwill

 2 while refusing to provide photographs of officers to journalists and the public upon request. Neither

 3 can law enforcement agencies decline to "put a face to the name" of officers, particularly when

 4   those officers shoot and kill a member of the public.

 5

 6         A WRIT OF MANDATE FOR DECLARATORY AND INJUNCTIVE RELIEF IS
 7                                               APPROPRIATE
 8           31.     Respondents have a clear, present, ministerial duty to comply with the California

 9   Constitution and Gov't Code§ 6250, et seq.

10           32.     Petitioner has performed all conditions precedent to filing this petition. There are no

11   administrative exhaustion requirements under Gov't Code § 6250, et seq.

12           33.     Petitioner has no plain, speedy, adequate remedy in the ordinary course of law other

13   than the relief sought in this petition.

14                                              PRAYER FOR RELIEF
15           WHEREFORE, Petitioner prays as follows:

16             1. That after a trial on this action, to be held on notice, this Court issue a declaration that

17                 Respondent violated the California Public Records Act by withholding the disclosable

18                 records Petitioner requested.

19             2. That the Court issue a peremptory writ of mandate directing Respondent to provide

20                 Petitioner with all requested records, except records that the Court determines may

21                 lawfully be withheld.

22             3. That Petitioner be awarded attorney's fees and costs; and

23             4. For such other and further relief as the Court deems proper and just.

24

25

26

27

28

                                                        -8-
         VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE UNDER THE CALIFORNIA PUBLIC RECORDS ACT
     DATED: February 23, 2018

 2
 3

 4

 5                                                        Attorney for Petitioner

 6

 7

 8

 9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22
23

24

25

26
27

28

                                               -9-
        VERIFIED PETIT ION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE UNDER THE CALIFORN IA PUBLIC RECORDS ACT
                                                VERIFICATION

 2           I, ABENICIO CISNEROS, am the attorney for Petitioner Mark Petersen-Perez in this
 3
     action. Petitioner is absent from the county in which I have my office. I have read the foregoing
 4
     Petition for Writ of Mandate and know the contents thereof. I am informed and believe that the
 5
     matters in it are true and on that ground allege that the matters stated in the petition are true.
 6
            I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the forego ing
 7
 8   is true and correct. Executed on this the 23th day of February, 20 18 at Oakland, Cal iforn ia.

 9

10

11

12                                                     Abenicio C isneros
                                                       Attorney for Mark Petersen-Perez
13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22
23

24

25

26
27
28

                                              - 10 -
         VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE UNDER THE CALI FORNIA PUBLIC RECORDS ACT
                                   INDEX OF EXHIBITS


EXHIBIT A: Respondent's January 17, 2018, response to public records act request in which
Respondent discloses names of officers involved in Carlos shooting.

EXHIBIT B: Respondent's January 17, 2018, response to Petitioner in which it refuses to
provide requested photographs of officers involved in Carlos shooting.

EXHIBIT C: Photographs of three officers involved in Carlos shooting as displayed in a .pdf
published on Respondent's website.

EXHIBIT D: Photographs of officers Respondent posted on its twitter account
@RedwoodCityPD.
EXHIBIT A
        Police Department                                       1301 Maple Street
        Gary L. Kirby                                           Redwood City, CA 94063
        Interim Chief of Police                                 Telephone (650) 780-7100
                                                                Fax Line (650) 780-7149




                                            Sent Via-Email

                                                                                January 17, 2018

To:     Aram James: abjp<l l(a1gmail.com

From: Redwood City Police Department
       Chief Gary L. Kirby, Interim Chief of Poiice
        130 l Maple St.
        Redwood City, Ca. 94063

RE:     California Public   Re~ords   Act Request Received January 5, 2018, 11 :09 PM

Mr. Aram James,
The infonnation contained in this letter is being provided to you in response to your request to obtain
data or inspect govemmenl records that may be in the possession of the Redwood City Police
Department as detailed in your email correspondence sent to the Redwood City Police Department on
January 5, 2018, pursuant to the California Public Records Act (CPRA), Cal. Gov't Code §§ 6260 et
~· In your CPRA request, you asked to receive the following infonnation:


Records Request 1:

Pursuant to the California Public Records Act -and pursuant 10 the leading California Supreme
Court decision -re the appropriateness ofreleasing the names ofpolice officersl sheriir deputies
involved in officer involved shooting- long Beach Police Officers Association v. City ofLong
Beach et al., 59 Cal. 4th 59 (2014):

1 am requesting the release of the names of the 7 Redwood City police officers and the 1 San
Mateo County SheriffDeputy- involved in the Saturday December 30. 2017 -officer involved
shooting/killing -ofMarco Antonio Carlos.

Said officer involved shooting occurred at approximately 2:25 p.m. on rlze above date-December 30,
2017-at the Wells Fargo Bank at 1900 Broadway, Redwood City, CA.


The Redwood City Police Department strives to correctly interpret the guidelines and authority outlined
in Cal. Gov't Code §§ 6260 et~· when releasing information in its possession t11at, if released, would
endanger the safety of a person involved in any investigation or would endanger the successful
completion of an investigation or related investigation or is further restricted by the Code. The
information being released to you in our response to your CPRA request, in our opinion, will not
interfere with the responsibilities the Redwood City Police Department has in protecting records of
criminal investigations or other records identified in a CPRA r~quest that are exempt from release.
Infonnation released in this document is of a unique nature in that it contains the name of a San Mateo
County Sheriff's Deputy involved in the December 30"' incident. Your initial CPRA request included a
response from the County of San Mateo. Sheriff Carlos Bolanos, to release the name of his deputy
involved in that incident. The release of the Deputy's name in this CPRA response from the Redwood
City Police Department has been authorized by Sheriff Carlos Bolanos and will serve to meet the
(CPRA) response requirements for both agencies.

Resoonse to Request I:

Redwood City Police Department:          Sergeant Nick Perna
Redwood City Police Department:          Sergeant Ed Conover
Redwood City Police Department:          Officer Junsun Lee
Redwood City Police Department:          Officer Richard Santiago
Redwood City Police Department:          Officer Mark Alifano
Redwood City Police Department:          Officer Dave Denning
Redwood City Police Department:          Officer Ryan Kimber
San Mateo County Sheriff's Deputy:       Deputy Daniel Chiu••

••Any questions associated to San Mateo County SheriWs Deputy, Deputy Daniel Chiu, should be
directed to San Mateo County Sherifrs Detective Salvador Zuno at (650) 421-1243.



If you have any further questions about this response, please call (650) 780-7154.


                                                         Sincerely,

                                                         ~ ~If!/
                                                         Garyzy
                                                         Interim Chief of Po ice




GLK:GLK
EXHIBITB
        Police Department               HedWood                 1301 Maple Street
        Gary L. Kirby
        Interim Chief of Police         GnvGBDTDrnle
                                               fOUllEl1887
                                                                Redwood City, CA 94063
                                                                Telephone (650) 780-7100
                                                                Fax Line (650) 780-7149




                                           Sent Via-Email

                                                                                 January 17, 2018

To:     Mark Peterson-Perez, Palo Alto Free Press: paloaltofrecprcss@{gmail.com

From: Redwood City Police Department
      Chief Gary L. Kirby, Interim Chief of Police
      130 l Maple St.
      Redwood City, Ca. 94063

RE :    California Public Records Act Request Received January 6, 2018, 9:54 AM


Mr. Mark Peterson-Perez,
The information contained in this letter is being provided to yo u in response to your request to obtain
data or inspect government records that may be in the possession of the Redwood City Police
Department as detailed in yow- email correspondence sent to the Redwood City Police Department on
January 5, 20 18, pursuant to the California Public Records Act (CPRA), Cal. Gov't Code §§ 6250 et
~- In your CPRA request, you asked to receive the following information:


Records Request 1:

P lease release all personnel photographs ofall officers in the stated CPRA request by Attorney
Aram James. Applicable case law: 217 Cal.App.41h 695 (2013), 158 Cal.Rptr.3rd 75 1


        Request referenced from Aram James made on 1-5-2018at I 1:09 PM:

        Pursuant to the California Public Records Act -and pursuant to the leading CaNfornia
        Supreme Court decision -re the appropriateness of releasing the names ofpo/ice
        officers/sheriff deputies involved in officer involved shooting- Long Beach Police
        Officers Association v. City ofLong Beach et al. . 59 Cal. 4th 59 (2014):

        1 am requesting the release of tlze names of the 7 Redwood City police officers and the I
        San Mateo County Sher~f]Deputy- involved in the Saturday December 30, 2017 -officer
        involved shooting/killing -ofMarco Antonio Carlos.

        Said officer involved shooting occurred at approximately 2:25 p.m. on the above date-
        December 30, 2017-at the Wells Fargo Bank at 1900 Broadway, Redwood City, CA.
The Redwood City Police Department strives to correctly interpret the guidelines and authority outlined
in Cal. Gov't Code §§ 6260 et~· when releasing infonnation in its possession that, if released, would
endanger the safety of a person involved in any investigation or would endanger the successful
completion of an investigation or related investigation or is further restricted by the Code. lbe
information being released to you in our response to your CPRA request, in our opinion, will not
interfere with the responsibilities the Redwood City Police Department has in protecting records of
criminal investigations or other records identified in a CPRA request that are exempt from release.

The information provided in this document will serve to meet the joint responsibility of the Redwood
City Police Department and the San Mateo County Sheriff for responding to your CPRA request. Both
agencies are jointly aligned with the response provided here in this reply.


Response to Request 1:

Your request for infonnation you wish to receive: "all personnel photographs ofall officers in
the stated CPRA request by Attorney Aram James. Applicable case law: 217 Cal.App.4th 695
(2013), 158 Cal.Rptr.3rd 75, "is denied.

            Authority:
            1. California Government Code§ 6254 (c): Personnel, medical, or similar files, the
               disclosure of which would constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy.
            2. California Government Code § 6254 (k): Records, the disclosure of which is exempt or
               prohibited pursuant to federal or state law, including, but not limited to, provisions of
               the Evidence Code relating to privilege.
            3. California Government Code§ 6255 (a): 'The public interest served by not disclosing
               the record clearly outweighs the public interest served by disclosure of the record."


If you have any further questions about this response, please call Police Records at (650) 780-7154.


                                                         Sincerely,



                                                         f:r.~~
                                                         Interim Chief of Police




GLK:GLK
EXT:UBITC
                                                    I      OUTSTANDING DUTY AWARD

the suspects, Officer Nimau qu ickly discovered the female suspect was
armed with a loaded 9mm handgun . He reacted quickly, disa rming her
and requesting Code 3 cover. Officer Faijean grabbed the male suspect
to detain him and the suspect tried to pull away. Officer Faijean quickly
subdued the suspect and took him into custody.

Detectives Lee and Ruybal responded and too k the lea d on the investigation.
They interviewed both suspects and obtained a full confession from the
female suspect. Detec t ive Lee e stablished a strong rapport with the female
suspect and she lead them to the area whe re they had discarded some
of the victims property. The property was recovered and returned to the
victims.

Officers Nimau and Faijean used their beat knowledge, keen observation
skills and sound tactics to t ake these two armed viole nt fe lons into custody.
The male suspect had a signification c rimina l history and the duo admitted
that had come to Redwood Ci ty to commit some armed street robberies.

Detectives Lee and Ruybal conducted a detailed thorough investigation
and used their experience and excelle nt interview and interrogat ion skills to
secure a confession a nd recover the victims' property.

Sergeant Perna supervised the inve stigation and display exce llent
                                                                                           .....
                                                                                           .




                                                                                               .
                                                                                                -·
                                                                                               . -- -.
                                                                                                   t
                                                                                                       ·



coord ination skil ls to put the patrol and investigations resources together
to ensure a detailed investigation was presented t o the District Attorney's
Office for prosecution.



                                                                                   A:
                                                                                    J.Ut


The outsta nding teamwork displayed by these officers clearly took two
violent c riminals off the s treet who wou ld have continued to victi mize our             DETECTIVEJUNSUN LEE
citizens had they not been so quickly apprehended.
                                                               I          OUTSTANDING DUTY AWARD
                                                             On November 4th, 2015 at approximately 1:39 am, a fight bro le out at Club Caliente
                                                             near downtown Redwood City. The main antagonists were ejected from the club by
                                                             security. One of these subjects produced a gun and discharged eight shots into the air
                                                             and then fled into the night after hearing si rens approaching.


                                                             Officer Santiago recognized both subjects in the surveillance video but was not able
                                                             to recall the name of the subject who discharged the firearm or his a!;sociate. Officer
                                                             Santiago was able to locate a picture of both of the subject s from the su rveillance
                                                             video and positively identify them as Alejandro Juarez and Jose Orozco. This speedy
                                                             identification set the tone for the rest of the investigation.


                                                             Through a person history check of the suspect it was discovered that Officer Bizzarro
                                                             had contacted Juarez and Orozco together two days prior in a homeless encampment
                                                             near Woodside Road and the railroad tracks. Officer Bizzarro came in early before his




         Day-Watch shift to brief detectives and A-watch officers on the e xact location of
         the suspects he contacted. Officer Bizzarro had intimate knowledge of the terrain
         and gave very insightful input in the planning on how to approach the suspect's
         tent. The plan was enacted and both suspects were taken into custody without
         incident. The gun was also located and confiscated.

         Officer Santiago, you are commended for your commitment to excellence by
         continuing to stay abreast of the criminal element in Redwood City through your
         daily activities and your time as a Street Crime Suppression Team Detective. It
         was this knowledge that allowed you to recognize the suspect from the video
         surveillance giving the investigation a head start from the very beginning.

         Officer Bizzarro, you are commended for your initiative for making it your routing
         to go into the homeless encampments in town and getting to know the criminal




                             -l
                                                              element that dwells within them. It was this initiative that led you to contact the
                                                              suspects in question in this case just two days prior. Further, you took it upon yourself
                                                               to come in early after learning that Investigations was planning on contac ting these


                            •:,!I'                            suspec ts. You were instrumental not only 1n pinpointing where you had contacted
                                                               these suspects, but you gave insight on the terrain and safe avenues of approach.

                                                               Sergeant Fine, you are commended for your leadership during this dynamic event
                                                               that led to the swift and decisive resolution of this very dangerous crime. From the




            -- -...                                            beginning of the event you were actively engaged in the direction this investigation
            ,..."'
               ,~
                                                               took. You immediately responded to the scene and e nsured all of the officers and




          A
           ,;,A;
                                                               citizens were safe, ensured the c rime scene was secure, and arranged for an evidence
          .,.,..,,
                                                               tech to process the scene. The suspect who was an active gang members was
                          SERGEANTSTEVEFINE                    convic ted of being a felon in possession of a firearm and sentenced Lo 18 months on
                                                               prison .




. . 24    2016 f<EDW(l():; r:· 1·· y PC: cl(. !dUd-<cJ~ (-''Li\    _,'.j{
Redwood City Police •   TWeets       Following         Followers     Ukes       Usts   Moments
@RedwoodCityPD          4,155          371              13K         2,873        6       1

                                 Redwood City Police 0 @RedwoodCltyPD • Feb 20                               v
                                 Today is #NaUonalloveYourPetDay Must be Ruff. Thanks to all the #K9 units for
                                 keeping us safe #AedwoodCity #LoveYourPetOay




                                 Q    1          tl.   12      \?   80      B
Redwood City Police •   Tweets       Followlng        Followers     Likes       Lists   Moments
@RedwoodCityPD          4,155          371             13K         2,673         6        1

                                 Redwood City Police 0 @RedwoodCltyPD · Feb 16                    v
                                 Sgt Chilton having some fun downtown. #WeLoveRWC #Redwoodcity
                                 ttCommunityPollcing




                                 Q               t1           \?   15       8
Redwood City Police o   lWeets     Followfng          Foilowers            Ukes       Usts   Moments
@RedwoodC1tyPO           ,155        371                  131<         2,673           6       1

                                 Redwood City Pollce O @RedwoodCltyPD • 14 Sep 2017                        v
                                 New CIT graduates, Ofc's Karasky, Lopez, Wittman, and dispatcher Maldonado,
                                 Congratulations #CIT #redwoodcity #crisislntervention




                                 Q1            t.l.   3           C?   6          8
Redwood City Police O   T'weets       Following        Followers            Lists    Moments
@RedwoodCrtyPD          4,155            371             13K                 6           1

                                  Redwood City Police • @RedwoodCltyPD · 10 Dec 2016                           v
                                  DC Kirby, Det Alifano, Det O'Gorman, and Ofc Trinh #CopsCare ttFantasyFlight
                                  ~   Translate from Haitian Creole




                                  Q                              CJ   6
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 4:05 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com>
Sent:                         Sunday, March 11, 2018 3:59 PM
To:                           Van Der Zwaag, Minka; gkirby@redwoodcity.org; Perron, Zachary; Council, City;
                              dcbertini@menlopark.org; HRC; paloaltofreepress@gmail.com;
                              council@redwoodcity.org; citycouncil@menlopark.org; roberta.ahlquist@sjsu.edu
Subject:                      PERF on implementation of body worn camera policy



http://www.policeforum.org/assets/docs/Free_Online_Documents/Technology/implementing%20a%20body-
worn%20camera%20program.pdf

Shared via the Google app


Sent from my iPhone




                                                      1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 4:06 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                              promiserani <promiserani@gmail.com>
Sent:                              Sunday, March 11, 2018 5:21 PM
To:                                Architectural Review Board
Cc:                                Council, City; Clerk, City
Subject:                           Please deny Verizon's call for cell towers



Dear Board,

I am asking that you deny approval to the proposed cell towers in Palo Alto residential
neighborhoods, unless Verizon’s designs a) call for all the equipment except the antenna to be
located completely underground and b) comply with Palo Alto’s noise ordinances, for the safety of
our neighborhoods and our children.

thank you!
Prerana Jayakumar



Do not be dismayed by the brokenness of the world. All things break. And all things can be mended. Not with time, as
they say, but with intention. So go. Love intentionally, extravagantly, unconditionally. The broken world waits in darkness
for the light that is you. - L.R.Knost

http://www.karnatik.com

http://www.transitionpaloalto.org




                                                             1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 4:07 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         bharat bhushan <22bhushan@gmail.com>
Sent:                         Monday, March 12, 2018 8:16 AM
To:                           Architectural Review Board; Council, City; Clerk, City
Subject:                      PLEASE KEEP CELL TOWERS AWAY FROM PALO ALTO



Dear Sir/Mdam,
I Bharat Bhushan, MD, ask YOU to deny approval to the proposed cell towers unless Verizon’s
designs a) call for all the equipment except the antenna to be located completely underground and b)
comply with Palo Alto’s noise ordinances.

There is enough evidence of enough bodily, and mind injury by elctro-magnetic radiation especially to
our children.

This is the link for this info. https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/02/technology/5g-cellular-service.html

Thanks, No cell towers again.

Bharat Bhushan, MD
2928 CLARA DR
PALO ALTO, CA 94303




                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/14/2018 8:20 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Mary Thomas <mj_thomas_2000@yahoo.com>
Sent:                             Tuesday, March 13, 2018 7:21 PM
To:                               Architectural Review Board
Cc:                               Council, City
Subject:                          Proposed cell towers in Palo Alto


To Whom It May Concern,

I am writing to ask you to deny approval to the proposed cell towers in Palo Alto unless Verizon's designs call for all
equipment except the antennas be put completely underground and for the cell towers to comply with Palo Alto's noise
ordinances.

Sincerely,
Mary Thomas
249 Santa Rita Ave
Palo Alto, CA 94301




                                                            1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 4:07 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com>
Sent:                              Sunday, March 11, 2018 9:45 PM
To:                                Palo Alto Free Press
Cc:                                Cullen, Charles; Perron, Zachary; HRC; Jonsen, Robert; michael.gennaco@oirgroup.com;
                                   acisneros@CApublicrecordslaw.com; Council, City; citycouncil@menlopark.org;
                                   council@redwoodcity.org; bos@smcgov.org
Subject:                           Re: BART police Body worn cameras


Mark,
Thanks for the research. Will read with great interest

Sent from my iPhone

> On Mar 11, 2018, at 9:31 PM, Palo Alto Free Press <paloaltofreepress@gmail.com> wrote:
>
> Page 18 of the Gennaco Chronicles No mention of CPRA coming into play but suggests recommends video review by
both parties victim / complaintant on the issue of transparency accountability..
>
> I would classify Gennaco as a paid snitch. Nevertheless, I found his comments interesting despite my vehement dislike
for this person....
>
> https://docs.wixstatic.com/ugd/d85a96_bd5e82d868a345f496e60706536533ad.pdf
>
>
> <d85a96_bd5e82d868a345f496e60706536533ad.pdf>
>
>
> Mark
>
>
> Sent from my iPad




                                                           1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/14/2018 7:52 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com>
Sent:                          Monday, March 12, 2018 10:36 PM
To:                            Mark Petersen-Perez
Cc:                            PD Gary Kirby; MGR-Melissa Stevenson Diaz; council@redwoodcity.org; HRC; Jonsen,
                               Robert; Perron, Zachary; Steven D. Lee; Van Der Zwaag, Minka; Abenicio Cisneros;
                               sdremann@paweekly.com; jaythor@well.com; Council, City;
                               citycouncil@menlopark.org; Bertini, David C; Dave Price; jrosen@da.sccgov.org;
                               molly.o'neal@pdo.sccgov.org; Stump, Molly; jgreen@dailynewsgroup.com;
                               <michael.gennaco@oirgroup.com>; Richard Wilson; WILPF Peninsula Palo Alto; chuck
                               jagoda; allison@padailypost.com; Emily Mibach; Watson, Ron; Roberta Ahlquist;
                               mike.wasserman@bos.sccgov.org; bos@smcgov.org; jose.guzman@pdo.scc.gov.org;
                               Joe Simitian; cindy.chavez@bos.sccgov.org; Lewis. james; Seelam Reddy; Sean James;
                               Keene, James; Cullen, Charles
Subject:                       Re: California Public Records Request & discussion Re: PERF on implementation of
                               body worn camera policy



3/12/18

Hi Mark,

Thanks so much for your detailed and thoughtful comments re the critical importance of
having a fully transparent‐community friendly‐ body‐worn camera policy.

We must continue to push the Palo Alto Police Department, and other local law
enforcement agencies, to allow the alleged victims of police brutality, community activists,
and other interested members of the public, as well as the press, to view body‐worn
camera footage, without undue delay, police bureaucratic obfuscation, and other nefarious
maneuvers designed to frustrate the public’s right to know.
Let me end with the following quote:

Law enforcement officers carry upon their shoulders the cloak of authority to enforce the
laws of the state. In order to maintain trust in its police department, the public must be kept
fully informed of the activities of its [52 Cal. App. 4th 105] peace officers. (Bradbury v. Superior Court
(1996) 49 Cal. App. 4th 1108, 1116

Regards,

Aram

        Aram thanks for including me in on this important exchange. As you know video from Body-
        Worn cameras including MAV feed play’s a critical role in building community trust,
        accountability and transparency.
                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/14/2018 7:52 AM

       Body-Worn Cameras
       http://www.theiacp.org/model-policy/wp-
       content/uploads/sites/6/2017/07/BodyWornCamerasPaper.pdf

       Citizen complaints of officer misconduct in one city fell by 87.5 percent. Their is nothing more
       compelling to a judge or jury in viewing actual events in analyzing alleged irrefutable
       testimony.

       However, police have the upper hand in all cases in disallowing the complainant / victim(s) the
       unfettered opportunity to review video first or simultaneously for potential exculpatory evidence.
       All policy’s I have read to date, have this much needed provision exclude.

       Any police policy impacting the interaction of its citizens should be fair and impartial and
       developed jointly, involving members of the community and not, not by a body of police
       bureaucrats looking to gain the legal upper of the citizens it serves..

       Lastly, I look forward to the release of the remaining photo’s of the officers involved in the
       killing of Marcos Antonio Carlos

       Sincerely,

       Mark Petersen-Perez
       Editor: Palo Alto Free Press
       Ticuantepe, Nicaragua 🇳🇮

       Sent from my iPad

       On Mar 12, 2018, at 1:39 PM, Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com> wrote:

              Hi Gary,

              Thanks for your detailed response re your background ( and your command
              staff’s) with the 2014 PERF report- on the various perspectives re how individual
              police departments might implement policy regarding the use and implementation
              of this important technology. I have read the report several times, since its release,
              and still could benefit from a reread. I’m most definitely a slow learner!

              I am embarrassed to say that I have not recently kept up with when or if our
              department ( Redwood City Police Department) has yet rolled out body-worn
              cameras.

              I recall attending one RWC council meeting, where you attended as well, where
              the subject was addressed. I recall personally addressing the subject, and voicing
              my support for body-worn cameras, depending on the policy our department
              ultimately adopts.

              Can you update me re the proposed timing, re the roll-out for body-worn cameras
              here in RWC? Can you send me the policy, or proposed policy for their use?
              Please consider this request, for this information, a California Public Records Act
                                                        2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/14/2018 7:52 AM
              request. I understand you are always very busy, so if you need more then 10 days
              to respond, no problem, just let me know.

              By the way, in addition to copying in the powers that be in RWC, I have also
              copied in Mark Petersen Perez, the owner
              and publisher of the Palo Alto Free Press.

              I’m sure you remember Mark. Mark and I used to attend meetings of the San Jose
              City Council, mostly around Taser issues, and other police practices issues, when
              you were almost the Chief in San Jose.

              Of course, you were always very gracious with the two of us, when we had
              questions and concerns with the taser issue, and related policy.

              Just this last Thursday, the two of us attended the monthly meeting of the Palo
              Alto Human Relations Commission. The PAPD’s command staff presented a
              draft policy, re body-worn cameras, to members of the HRC and the community.
              Both Mark and I addressed the commission with our concerns that the proposed
              PAPD policy lacks transparency is several regards. We are hopeful that some of
              the issues and concerns re their policy, raised by the two of us, in additions to
              questions posed by several members of the HRC, will be taken seriously by the
              PAPD command staff. In other words, we are hopeful the policy ultimately
              adopted by the PAPD reflects critical input from the community and is not simply
              a policy dictated to us by the department. I look forward to an on going discussion
              with you regarding all of the above issues.

              Best regards,

              Aram



              On Mar 12, 2018, at 9:47 AM, Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com> wrote:

                     Hi Gary,
                     Thanks for responding, hope you are well. Mark Peyersen

                     Sent from my iPhone

                     On Mar 12, 2018, at 9:37 AM, PD Gary Kirby
                     <GKirby@redwoodcity.org> wrote:

                              Aram,

                              Thank you for thinking to forward the PERF report on
                              Body‐Worn Cameras. I am quite versed in the contents
                              of the document as well as all of my command staff
                              who were provided a copy of the study when it first
                              came out.


                                                        3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/14/2018 7:52 AM



                            Regards,

                            Gary



                            Gary L. Kirby | Deputy Chief of Police

                            Redwood City Police Department

                            1301 Maple St. Redwood City, CA 94063

                            gkirby@redwoodcity.org

                            (650) 780‐7123 Office




                            From: Aram James [mailto:abjpd1@gmail.com]
                            Sent: Sunday, March 11, 2018 3:59 PM
                            To: minka.vanderzwaag@cityofpaloalto.org; PD Gary
                            Kirby; zachary.perron@cityofpaloalto.org;
                            city.council@cityofpaloalto.org;
                            dcbertini@menlopark.org; hrc@cityofpaloalto.org;
                            paloaltofreepress@gmail.com; GRP-City Council;
                            citycouncil@menlopark.org; roberta.ahlquist@sjsu.edu
                            Subject: PERF on implementation of body worn camera
                            policy




                            http://www.policeforum.org/assets/docs/Free_Onlin
                            e_Documents/Technology/implementing%20a%20b
                            ody-worn%20camera%20program.pdf

                            Shared via the Google app



                            Sent from my iPhone




                                                      4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/14/2018 8:21 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                         redress.of.grievance@gmail.com
Sent:                         Wednesday, March 14, 2018 6:46 AM
To:                           sdremann@paweekly.com; Council, City; HRC; Dave Price; dangel@da.sccgov.org;
                              Keith, Claudia; bwelch@dao.sccgov.org; swebby@da.sccgov.org; Keene, James;
                              Reifschneider, James; Perron, Zachary; Jay Boyarsky; jrosen@da.sccgov.org;
                              allison@padailypost.com; Lum, Patty; Scheff, Lisa; bjohnson@paweekly.com;
                              bjohnson@embarcaderomediagroup.com; acisneros@CApublicrecordslaw.com;
                              Jonsen, Robert; Gary.Goodman@pdo.sccgov.org; gsheyner@paweekly.com; Stump,
                              Molly; bajadrew911@aol.com; Binder, Andrew; molly.o'neal@pdo.sccgov.org;
                              swagstaffe@smcgov.org; dave.cortese@bos.sccgov.org; Scharff, Greg
Subject:                      Re: Commission questions police-video transparency policy | News | Palo Alto Online |



Ciampi videos reveal profanity-laced exchange - Written by: Sue Dremann


Just as the Ciampi video was laced with profanity the above mentioned story was
written by the same irresponsible fake news media reporter and equally laced with
f**** words metaphorically.


Her story is media bull shit forced unknowingly down the throats of Palo Alto
citizens and beyond only to have your objections, your objections in the public
comments field, to be censored by her. The facts are clearly documented and
supported.


She is one of the Weekly’s TOP censors......


This reporter discredits the entire profession of journalism by spinning the the
citizens of Palo Alto on theirs heads with half baked news.


We strongly, suggest all her stories be throughly researched or attend city council
meetings to confirm the accuracy and truths to her story telling....




                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/14/2018 8:21 AM




Mark Petersen-Perez
Editor: Palo Alto Free Press
Ticuantepe, Nicaragua 🇳🇮

Sent from my iPad

On Mar 13, 2018, at 8:39 PM, redress.of.grievance@gmail.com wrote:

       Fake News Media prevails once more.... This fake news media reporter was read the following
       city response to my California Public Records Request...

       Despite CPRA case law, the city can and will do as it pleases as in the release of the Tony
       Ciampi video all the while this case was on-going in Federal
       Court https://www.paloaltoonline.com/news/2011/01/19/ciampi-videos-reveal-profanity-laced-
       exchange

       https://www.paloaltoonline.com/news/2018/03/13/commission-questions-police-video-

                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/14/2018 8:21 AM
       transparency-policy




       Sent from my iPad


       Sent from my iPad




                                                     3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 3:15 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Jeanne Fleming <jfleming@metricus.net>
Sent:                             Wednesday, March 07, 2018 4:11 PM
To:                               Kniss, Liz (internal)
Cc:                               Council, City; Clerk, City; Architectural Review Board
Subject:                          RE: Follow-up on your comments on Tuesday night



Dear Mayor Kniss,

Thank you for your prompt response with respect to when the proposed changes to the Wireless
ordinance will again appear on Council’s agenda. United Neighbors and I are most appreciative of
your courtesy in promising that the City will notify me as soon as that date has been set.

I trust you will let me know what the City’s rules, if any, are with respect to residents commenting on
the same issue at Council meetings on two different dates.

Sincerely,

Jeanne Fleming

Jeanne Fleming PhD
JFleming@Metricus.net
650-325-5151


From: Kniss, Liz (internal) <Liz.Kniss@CityofPaloAlto.org>
Sent: Wednesday, March 7, 2018 2:53 PM
To: Jeanne Fleming <jfleming@metricus.net>; Minor, Beth <Beth.Minor@CityofPaloAlto.org>
Subject: Re: Follow‐up on your comments on Tuesday night

When the City manager find a slot on our agenda is to continue the discussion you will be notified.


On Mar 7, 2018, at 2:46 PM, Jeanne Fleming <jfleming@metricus.net> wrote:

        Dear Mayor Kniss,

        I am your neighbor and also part of the group, the United Neighbors of Palo Alto, that on
        Tuesday night urged City Council to vote against approving the modifications City Staff
        seeks to make to Palo Alto’s Wireless ordinance.

        At the conclusion of the evening, you decided Council would not vote on this issue, and
        you asked Staff to place it on Council’s Agenda at a later date. City Manager Jim
        Keene then indicated that the date would probably be in early April.


                                                            1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 3:15 PM
       I would appreciate it if you could answer two questions regarding Council’s further
       consideration of this issue:

          1. On what date will City Council continue its consideration of Staff’s proposed
              changes to the Wireless Code?

          2. Is there a City rule that prohibits us—by us, I mean the same individuals who
              spoke on Tuesday—from speaking about this issue when it is next considered by
              Council? We did not understand what you said on this point.

       Thank you for your help. I look forward to hearing from you.

       Sincerely,

       Jeanne Fleming

       Jeanne Fleming PhD
       JFleming@Metricus.net
       650-325-5151




                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/14/2018 7:56 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Francesca <dfkautz@pacbell.net>
Sent:                             Tuesday, March 13, 2018 10:04 AM
To:                               Amrutha Kattamuri
Cc:                               Council, City; Clerk, City; Architectural Review Board; Scharff, Gregory (internal)
Subject:                          Re: Informative links on cell towers cell towers and more



Wow, Amrutha, thanks so much for sending all this information! Particularly interesting is #4 - Julie Watts
report on cell towers and #5 - City of Santa Rosa Council Meeting March 6, 2018. There are a lot of people up
in arms about having small cells shoved in our neighborhoods.

Francesca


       On Mar 13, 2018, at 9:37 AM, Amrutha Kattamuri <vkattamuri@yahoo.com> wrote:

       Dear All,

       I am sending the following links to articles/information/videos on cell towers for you to go through.


       1. Senator Blumenthal, Representative Eshoo Urge FCC to Enforce Exposure Limits for Those Who Work
       Near Wireless Towers

       Senator Blumenthal, Representative Eshoo Urge FCC to Enforce Exposure Limits for Those Who Work
       Near Wireless Towers



            Senator Blumenthal, Representative Eshoo Urge FCC to
            Enforce Exposure Li...


       2. This is the link to the new and latest study on cell towers (Los Angeles was the study site in the
       United States)

       Cell Phone Towers are Largest Contributor to Environmental Radiofrequency Radiation




                                                             1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/14/2018 7:56 AM

           Cell Phone Towers are Largest Contributor to
           Environmental Radiofrequenc...
           Study finds cell towers are largest contributor to environmental
           radiofrequency radiation exposure.



       3. CA Dept of Health issues warnings on Cell Phone usage

       California health officials release guidelines on cellphone radiation




           California health officials release guidelines on cellphone
           radiation
           State health officials aren't saying that cellphones pose health risks, but
           "the science is evolving"



       4. Julie Watts report on cell towers

       ConsumerWatch: 5G Cellphone Towers Signal Renewed Concerns Over Impacts on Health




                  ConsumerWatch: 5G Cellphone Towers Signal
                  Renewed Concerns Over Impacts ...
                  Wireless carriers are installing millions of towers across the
                  country to enable the new, faster 5G cellphone te...




                                                                         2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/14/2018 7:56 AM
        5. View four speakers from 1:46:38 through 2:01:15 using this slide presentation.View from 2:01:15 through
        2:18:00 for Santa Rosa City Council members’ comments.

        City of Santa Rosa Council Meeting March 6, 2018




                  City of Santa Rosa Council Meeting March 6,
                  2018
                  City meeting agendas, packets, archives, and live stream
                  are always available at https://santa-rosa.legistar.com




        Thanks,
        Amrutha




                                                                3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 4:00 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         M. Gallagher <writing2win@gmail.com>
Sent:                         Sunday, March 11, 2018 10:54 AM
To:                           Stephanie Munoz
Cc:                           WILPF Peninsula Palo Alto; Roberta Ahlquist; chuck jagoda; Ruth Chippendale; Council,
                              City; hilarygitelman@cityofpaloalto.org; epatoday; supervisor.simitian@bos.sccgov.org;
                              senator.hill@senate.ca.gov; assemblymember berman; NeighborsHelping Neighbors
Subject:                      Re: Mary Gallegher's memo on housing, Chuck's comments and a plea for more
                              nuanced understanding of density.



Dear Stephanie and Affordable Housing Advocates:

Stephanie: I appreciate your thoughtful responses to propose solutions to
house the homeless and lower income folks of all ages. Each solution has its
benefits, costs, risks or advantages and disadvantages.

Please be aware I speak with decades of experience as a renter, a property
owner, and a professional property manager. To manage property, I held a
Nevada broker's real estate license and Massachusetts salesperson's license.

Housing and the lack of housing is a public health issue with no silver bullet
to solve the problem. Each proposed solution must be evaluated against
certain criteria. What are we trying to achieve for whom, how (resources),
and when (the time line)? Personally, I prefer the solution/notion of
intentional communities, so people who have the same values and life
practices can co-exist more peaceably than if those living in community do
not have the same values and life practices. I say this after years of living in
conflict with others who have opposing ideologies and practices in apartment
communities and single family homes. Often, the homeless prefer life on the
streets and on benches precisely because the homeless do not have to
negotiate shared spaces, personal differences, the sight of a ceiling rather
than beauty of a starry, starry night, and other conflict-prone domestic
situations.

May anyone in this email list know how I may bring my housing expertise
and our affordable housing ideas to the negotiating table in a paid position?
                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 4:00 PM
Respectfully,

Mary Gallagher, B.S.
Affordable Housing Advocate
650-683-7102




Mary Gallagher, B.S.
Content Strategist
650-683-7102

Copyright 2018


Security Alert Notice
The information contained in this e-mail is confidential information, presumed to be virus free, and
intended only for use by the individual or entity named above. Virus protection is the responsibility of
the recipient. If the reader of this email is not the intended recipient, dissemination or distribution is
prohibited. If you have received this email in error, please delete the material from your computer.
Thank you.

On Fri, Mar 9, 2018 at 7:16 AM, Stephanie Munoz <stephanie@dslextreme.com> wrote:
 WILPF is very lucky to have Mary's ideas because they are enough different from mine to provide a
 base for discussion of complexities. To me, the housing complexity that is not being discussed is the
 difference in the needs of the to-be-housed,which differ as they age, the difference in advantages
 and drawbacks of the sites, and the need to match up as many as possible tenants with appropriate
 sites. Chuck is taking the motto of the handicapped vis-a vis-authority: "Nothing about us without us"
 but homelessness isn't necessarily a condition, but also overlaps with situational; that is, it might be
 a veteran with PTSD who can't get along with people, including his family, his boss or coworkers, or
 it might be an ordinary, emotionally stable family whose earners have simply been priced out of the
 market. I have to agree with Chuck that you get more complete and reliable guidelines when you
 ask people who have some experience with the need, but in a disaster of the proportions we have,
 it's any port in a storm. 6,000 Santa Clara County Homeless--get them off the streets any which way
 you can! For instance, I believe we should work to demand that the federal government provide
 appropriate housing for every veteran on unused military bases, and invent some housing, however
 small and humble, which can be rented, on the open market, by minimum wage social security
 workers and SSI recipients. Some kind of basic safe sleeping space should be provided by our
 society for all who need it, including those newly released from jail--I suggest it be rented at
 minimum wage for an hour's work each night, and the hour's work provided for the
 penniless. There should be some room somewhere for the sick poor to exist during the day, and
 children and their families should be provided with some place to continue living through all 24
                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 4:00 PM
hours. Cities should religiously preserve all existing affordable housing, including mobile homes,
and provide rental space for mobile homes, RVs and automobiles used for car camping, with
bathrooms for the latter.

By the same token, although I believe PAHC's work is wasteful of the existing resources, I have to
appreciate that they have done a phenomenal job of adding to the housing stock while following Palo
Alto's sacred guidelines, which are, basically, only to increase property values, never decrease
them. A shining example is in Barron Park, roughly the same area as the failed Maybell project,
where they quietly placed half-a-dozen small projects which cannot be identified as subsidized. And
remember, they worked under the handicap of a city Rule against high density seen as not just
number of cars, not just size of building footprint, or amount of square footage undercover but
arbitrrarily limiting
number of units per acre. It was only in suggesting that the city could tolerate higher density if it were
in the form of high value mansions that they stumbled.

I maintain that the neighbors could have been persuaded that as many as three hundred retired poor
elderly could have been housed in a building of the same dimensions as the Tan apartments directly
adjacent to the site; if these residents did not have cars--and because they were retired (jobless) and
without families to take to school, etc, they would not have needed cars, or, at least, out of 2,000
elderly homeless, at least 300 would not have needed cars. They could have had a shuttle bus,
leaving the street unencumbered.
(Note that the city, in its pacification efforts, did not offer to return Maybell street to its previous role
as a street unencumbered by cast-off Arastradero traffic.) I agree with Mary that the building would
be more acceptable to open space advocates if the same number of square feet were spread up to
six stories (because higher than that requires a more substantial investment in the foundation), and
the open space necessary to comply with the FAR were placed between the building and any
adjacent single story or two story homes, possibly with the upper stories stepped back to so as to
preserve the daylight plane for them. This would, of course, be the case if the multi-story building
were combined with park open space, and its parking lot if it had one, as the buffer of open space
would have been even better validated on a property containing an orchard.

As for the residents having an equity share in the property, I'd like to see some affordable housing in
private ownership. This could come about if the city were to permit the same profit to be made from
many tiny units as could be made from few expensive units. This could only happen with the city's
cooperation in modifying the zoning law, and rent control to guarantee that the conditions under
which the city relinquished control did not revert to the previous ethic of all that the traffic would bear,
and, of course, the profit to be made from large units at market rate changes daily. The city would
have to make it clear that they had in mind some base point not constantly rising. We need to
borrow PAHC's expertise to know what the market rate for 600 square foot rentals was in 2016,
when they sold the Maybell acreage they had acquired for more than they paid for it.
I also see a possibility of a non-profit association formed to amass small--($1,000 to $2,000) shares
in affordable housing, loaned at no interest for a number of years, but with the stipulation that the
owner's money could be returned on a day's notice, and a cadre of philanthropists formed who could
guarantee that return policy. Once the mortgage was paid off, there could be interest paid.

Sadly, I see equity share as a naive belief that our capitalistic system offers more in property rights
than Communism, when if fact we have a cruel, mendacious and exploitative system of forcing
property owners off property which has substantially appreciated, so that it may add to the valuable
product to be sold to add to the capital stock and render taxes in a backlash of Prop 13., through the
estate tax, the Redevelopment Agency, and the Uniform Building Code, and I also mistrust
                                                     3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 4:00 PM
condominium ownership because of the possibility of majoritarian tyranny to force out poorer
owners. In a condominium where I am an owner, for instance, the Board has obtained legislation
empowering it to sell individual owners' property without a court order; they have decreed that
owners must give up parking spaces previously earned by years of seniority, and demanded
thousands of dollars worth of plumbing upgrades, ostensibly to save water, although the owner was
not even living in the unit for most of the time, and they have forbidden smoking in the owner's own
private non-shared property. Worst of all, they have forbidden rentals to new owners, which of
course limits the sale value, and is probably not acceptable to the city, in view of the great shortage
of rental units.
Stephanie Munoz




                                                     4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 4:28 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                          David Lin <dcflin@gmail.com>
Sent:                          Saturday, March 10, 2018 7:37 PM
To:                            McKernan, Gregory
Cc:                            UTL-Customer Service; Council, City; Kniss, Liz (internal); Alinda Liu; Filseth, Eric
                               (Internal)
Subject:                       Re: Notification for Underground Substructure Work and Utility Improvements
Attachments:                   McKernan 03102018 Notification for Underground Substructure Work and Utility
                               Improvements.pdf



[cc City of Palo Alto Utilities Department, City Council, Vice Mayor, and Mayor ]


Mr. McKernan,

We live in 571 Glenbrook Drive, Palo Alto. Just today, 03/10/2018, we received the notification letter
(attached) from you about the underground substructure work in mail. Can you please let us know more about
the work? In particular,

1. When was this Above Ground Improvement proposal being announced to public (especially to the
neighborhood getting impacted), reviewed, and agreed/approved?
2. When was the environmental evaluation/report being done for this Above Ground Improvement? Please
share that report.
3. Exactly how many conduit and utility boxes will be installed in Glenbrook area?
4. Exactly the locations of conduit and utility boxes to be installed?

Please note that we would certainly like to know the details before the work gets started. It's obviously
extremely inappropriate to notify us on the weekend and plan to start the construction work on Monday
(03/12/2018) right away. Please make sure DO NOT start the construction work until this project is fully
communicated with the neighborhood and agreed by the neighborhood. Meantime, we are in progress to engage
lawyers and review this case if there is any wrongdoing from City of Palo Alto.


Sincerely,

- David Lin and Alinda Liu
571 Glenbrook Drive, Palo Alto, CA 94306




                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 4:28 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Frankie Farhat <farhat_101@yahoo.com>
Sent:                            Sunday, March 11, 2018 1:18 AM
To:                              McKernan, Gregory
Cc:                              City of Palo Alto Utilities; utilitiesCustomerService@citryofpalotoalto.com; Council, City;
                                 editor@paweekly.com; news@padailypost.com
Subject:                         Letter re. Notification for Underground Substructure Work and Utility Improvements
Attachments:                     PA Utilities letter.pdf



Dear Mr. McKernan,

I received today, Saturday March 10, the letter attached to this email. It notifies me of work that will start on
Monday March 12 in my street. This gives me and my neighbors no time to react and to get factual and reliable
information on the actual work that wil be done and the equipment that will be installed. I find these tactics
appalling. You are trying to put us in front of a "fait accompli", and I think that you and whoever collaborated
with you on this project and decided to give us this last minute notice should be put to shame!

The letter lacks very important information, in particular what equipment will be installed where. All I know is
that a very large number of orange markings appeared on the sidewalk of my street (the 500-block of
Glenbrook) on Friday March 9.

The letter shares how big the equipment will be: their size is equivalent to 2 large mail boxes (!!), in other
words an eye sore and a guaranty to reduce the homes' curb appeal, ruin expensive landscaping investments,
and dramatically reduce home values. Your project will have a great negative impact on our neighborhood, and
you knew it. Or is the City going to compensate the unlucky homeowners and provide them with landscaping
funds, given your anticipated savings?

The letter states the intended benefits of this "upgrade", namely serviceability and extended lifespan. These
benefits are solely for the City of Palo Alto Utilities. I have not experienced a single issue related to
serviceability or reliability of your equipment in the 14 years I have lived here. I cannot think of any single
upside for us, homeowners and residents.

What concerns me more is safety: Having a huge electrical piece of equipment installed over-ground close to
the sidewalk does not sound safe to me, certainly not as safe as having it under-ground. May I ask you how you
and the City weigh your cost savings against our safety?

Did you know that the 14 houses in the 500-block of Glenbrook Drive are all 15 years old, since they were all
built around the same time? Based on this, I doubt that the underground equipment has actually reached its end
of life and needs to be replaced.

Signs indicate that no car can park on one side of the 500-block of Glenbrook drive for an entire month (3/10
through 4/6) due to your project. Did you know that the other side of that block is a "No Parking" zone? Where
are we all supposed to park? Did anyone ever this of us, residents?

Did you know that the Green Acres 1 streets were recently repaved (summer 2017) to give them a consistent
and seamless appearance? I can only imagine the effect that your drilling will have onto this less-than-1-year-

                                                           2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 4:28 PM
old surface. If the city is looking for cost savings, may I suggest to look into communication between
departments, planning and coordination?

Last but not least, we need to review the legal aspect of your project and your communications (or lack thereof,
until the very last minute).

For now, I would like to urge you to hold off your project, and to answer these questions and any other
questions you will receive from other Green Acres 1 residents, before anything happens.

Sincerely,

Frankie Farhat
566 Glenbrook Drive, Palo Alto, CA 94306
Cell: 650-898-9585
email: farhat_101@yahoo.com




                                                        3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 4:28 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                                   Dennis Kwok <dennis.kwok@sbcglobal.net>
Sent:                                   Sunday, March 11, 2018 8:42 PM
To:                                     Shikada, Ed
Cc:                                     McKernan, Gregory; UTL-Customer Service; UtilitiesCommunications; Council, City;
                                        Dennis Kwok; Frankie Farhat
Subject:                                Re: Your Notification for Underground Substructure Work and Utility
                                        Improvements


Dear Ed,

Thanks for your quick response. In Gregory Mckernan's letter, he stated the said work will start tomorrow. Will such work be
stopped now when you're addressing the issues?


Dennis Kwok


From: "Shikada, Ed" <Ed.Shikada@CityofPaloAlto.org>
To: Dennis Kwok <dennis.kwok@sbcglobal.net>
Cc: "McKernan, Gregory" <Gregory.McKernan@CityofPaloAlto.org>; UTL-Customer Service
<UtilitiesCustomerService@CityofPaloAlto.org>; UtilitiesCommunications <UtilitiesCommunications@CityofPaloAlto.org>;
"Council, City" <city.council@cityofpaloalto.org>; Dennis Kwok <dkwok@comptia.org>
Sent: Sunday, March 11, 2018 8:24 PM
Subject: Re: Your Notification for Underground Substructure Work and Utility Improvements

Dear Mr. Kwok -

My apology for the anxiety obviously caused by this letter. I will be discussing the issues with staff tomorrow
morning and will respond with additional information as soon as available.

Best regards,
—Ed Shikada
Assistant City Manager & General Manager of Utilities


On Mar 11, 2018, at 8:07 PM, Dennis Kwok <dennis.kwok@sbcglobal.net> wrote:
           Dear Mr. McKerman,

           On March 10, 2018, I received a letter, dated March 7, 2018 with mail stamp dated March 8, 2018, notifying me of
           utilities work that is scheduled to begin on Monday, March 12, 2018. In addition to a complete lack of notification
           for the neighborhood of such substantive work, there are a number of outstanding issues that have not been
           adequately addressed.
           1. In this letter, it states that phase one of the underground substructure work and utility improvements would take
           one week, with phase two beginning in August. Why has parking in the 500 block of Glenbrook Drive been
           arbitrarily blocked off for an entire month?
           2. Please provide reports substantiating the underground transformers are less effective and safe compared to
           above-ground equipment.
           3. Please advise as to the exact number of aboveground transformers and switches and their exact locations.
           4. Please advise on the useful life of the current underground equipment and provide substantiation for 50-year
           lifespan of the new equipment.

                                                                     4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 4:28 PM
        5. Please provide a detailed report on the work that is to be done, the interruption it may have to electric services,
        and other day-to day interruptions residents may face as a result of such work (ie. Including repaving streets).
        6. Please advise why the Utilities department is determining to move underground utilities aboveground when the
        Utilities department has adopted RR17- Conversion of Electric and Communications Facilities Underground.

         Such substantive work, especially as it pertains to moving electrical equipment from below ground to above ground
         should allow for a thirty (30) day notification period to the residents of the neighborhoods affected and public
         hearings for feedback on the project. I strongly urge a delay of this work until all issues and concerns are adequately
         addressed. If work is to begin without further explanation, a preliminary injunction maybe sought collectively by
         the neighborhood.
         I, and the neighborhood, look forward to further communication from you and the Utilities Department.

         Best regards,
         Dennis Kwok
         567 Glenbrook Drive
         Palo Alto, CA 94306




                                                                   5
~           UTILITIES DEPARTMENT

~
CI T Y OF
            Engineering

            .._•C,7   =, .
PALO : ,, . . 1. r _         ~· ..; ·
ALTO      S'"~-



             March 7, 2018


             Re: Notification for Underground Substructure Work and Utility Improvements

             To Utility Customers:

            In the late 1970's the City of Palo Alto Utilities department (CPAU) undergrounded the overhead
            lines in the area east of Arastradero Rd, with the boundary streets of Los Palos Ave, Pomona
            Ave, and Glenbrook Dr, identified as Underground Utility District 15 (UUD15) . The current
            equipment is reaching the end of its serviceable life and the utility, in order to continue to provide
            reliable service is rebuilding the electric system and bringing it up to current design standards .
            These improvements will include substructure work (new conduits, underground boxes, and
            equipment pads) and new electric equipment (cable, transformers and switches). With these
            system improvements the utility expects the new equipment to be in service for another 50 years.

             This project will take place in two phases. The first phase involves installing conduit and utility
             boxes along Glenbrook, north of Los Palos Ave to the end of the cul-de-sac. The second phase
             will entail installing additional utility substructures on Los Palos Ave, Pomona Ave, Fairmede Ave,
             and Los Palos Pl , replacing existing sidewalk vault covers, and installing new cable and
             padmount equipment,.

             Currently the transformers are located below ground in vaults under the sidewalk. In order to
             improve reliability, safety and capacity, it is necessary to bring this equipment above ground.
             Padmount equipment is safer to operate, and is more reliable. When the equipment is
             underground it is prone to reduced ventilation, chemical spills, and water, all of which contribute
             to a reduced lifespan of the equipment. Attached with this letter is a drawing showing the
             approximate size of the proposed equipment.

            The first phase of the project is expected to start March 12'h and last about one week while the
            second phase is projected to begin in August with an expected construction time of two-three
            weeks.

            If you have any questions or concerns about the project, or how it may impact you , please contact
            me.

            Thank you,




             Gregory McKernan PE
             Power Engineer
             1007 Elwell Court
             Palo Alto, CA 94303
             (650) 566-4575
             Gregory.McKernan@cityofpaloalto.org




                                                          c I tyOf Pa lo Al to . org

                                        I   I'   1   '•                  • I , 11 •   f   i   I   f   •   rj   •   •h   t1   I (
      I
::J   u
<{ I-       0
(l_ -
u~
      (/)
                •
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/14/2018 7:53 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Palo Alto Free Press <paloaltofreepress@gmail.com>
Sent:                             Tuesday, March 13, 2018 7:01 AM
To:                               Aram James
Cc:                               chuckjagoda1@gmail.com; timothygray@sbcglobal.net;
                                  wilpf.peninsula.paloalto@gmail.com; stb_discussion@googlegroups.com; Council, City;
                                  Keene, James; roberta.ahlquist@sjsu.edu; Rick Toker; HRC; Holman, Karen (external);
                                  tom.dubois@gmail.com; Kniss, Liz (internal); sdremann@paweekly.com;
                                  GSheyner@paweekly.com; dprice@padailypost.com; allison@padailypost.com;
                                  emibach@padailypost.com; hansen@bayareanewsgroup.com;
                                  bjohnson@embarcaderomediagroup.com; bjohnson@paweekly.com
Subject:                          Re: Palo Alto ( no surprise here) one the worse records in the county re providing
                                  affordable housing


First off this illustrate the cursory research by fake news media like the Daily Post and its reporters... including
the Weekly

“The 2010 United States Census reported that Palo Alto had a population of 64,403” 30,500 vs 64,403 is one
huge jump in numbers... So the entire article is questionable....

It’s....BTW....News you can get of the internet...




Mark Petersen-Perez
Editor: Palo Alto Free Press
Ticuantepe, Nicaragua 🇳🇮

Sent from my iPad

On Mar 12, 2018, at 11:33 PM, Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com> wrote:

        State statistics show the cozy bedroom community, with a population of 30,500 and a median
        home value of $1.9 million, is one of the hardest Silicon Valley communities to build in. Overall,
        Los Gatos met about 41 percent of the state-determined housing need allocation goals between
        2007 and 2014, trailing all but Saratoga and Palo Alto in Santa Clara County.

        See the link to the full article below

        mercurynews.ca.newsmemory.com/publink.php?shareid=2c55c0b4e



                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/14/2018 1:34 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Leland Wiesner <lwiesner@gmail.com>
Sent:                          Wednesday, March 14, 2018 11:33 AM
To:                            Architectural Review Board; Council, City
Subject:                       Request to Deny Cell towers in residential neighborhoods



Dear City Council et. al.

We are opposed to allowing Verizon and othetr telecom companies to install 109s of unsightly mini cell towers
strapped to poles in our beautiful neighborhood.

Please deny their request or recommend it to be underground.

Thank you.

Leland Wiesner

1144 Fife Ave Pa
650 248 1144


---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Jeanne Fleming <jfleming@metricus.net>
Date: Sun, Mar 11, 2018, 17:17
Subject: Update: Cell towers in residential neighborhoods
To: <JFLEMING@metricus.net>
Cc: <jnimkar@gmail.com>, <jerry.fan@gmail.com>


Dear Neighbors,



As you know, the Architectural Review Board (ARB) will be holding a hearing this Thursday morning,
March 15th , to consider Verizon’s latest plans to install its first wave of cell towers in Palo Alto’s
residential neighborhoods.



If you haven’t already done so, we hope you will email the ARB (arb@cityofpaloalto.org) and ask
them to deny approval to the proposed cell towers unless Verizon’s designs a) call for all the
equipment except the antenna to be located completely underground and b) comply with Palo Alto’s
noise ordinances. Please send a copy of your email to City Council (city.council@cityofpaloalto.org)
and the City Clerk (city.clerk@cityofpaloalto.org).



                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/14/2018 1:34 PM
Also, we hope you will, if you possibly can, attend the March 15th hearing. We will be meeting in the
lobby of City Hall (250 Hamilton Avenue) at 8:15 a.m., and we can assure you that your presence will
make a difference (at public hearings like this, we are told, the depth of support really matters). By
the way, cell towers are the first item on the ARB’s agenda, so we expect to get started at 8:30 (i.e.,
no waiting).



Finally: According to an article in the March 3rd New York Times, “telecommunications companies—
hoping to cash in on what is predicted to be 250 billion in annual service revenue from 5G [the
current massive deployment of cell towers in cities and towns] by 2025—are pushing to build the
system as quickly and cheaply as possible.” (The bolding is ours.) “Cheaply” is exactly how
Verizon is proposing to build out its network in Palo Alto: with big antennas that are cheaper for them
than smaller ones, and with hundreds of pounds of ugly, noisy ancillary equipment that is cheaper for
them to place above ground than below. Littering our residential neighborhoods with unsightly, cheap
and hazardous equipment is what we are fighting against.



(If you’re interested, you can find the entire New York Times article
here: https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/02/technology/5g-cellular-service.html .)



Thank you very much for your consideration. We hope you will email the ARB in the next few days,
and we hope you can join us on the morning of March 15th.



Thanks again,



Jeanne, Jerry & Jyo

for United Neighbors




                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 4:06 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Jeffrey Morton <jwalmort@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Sunday, March 11, 2018 4:46 PM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        Ross Rd.



The traffic calming plan for Ross Rd. may have looked good on paper, but as it has been built out it is only a
matter of time before there is an accident.
Was this a lot of money spent on a soution to a problem that did't exist ? Jeff Morton




                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 3:23 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Samuel Chang <changsn@pacbell.net>
Sent:                             Thursday, March 08, 2018 11:05 AM
To:                               Council, City
Subject:                          Roundabout Ross/E Meadow


Just wanted to find out your response to the petition to stop the roundabout at Ross/E Meadow. Seems like
overwhelming neighborhood response to what appears to be a poorly designed project. As a biker and resident, I think
this is a huge waste of money. Hopefully you are listening to your constituents and doing something about this
catastrophe.

Sent from Mail for Windows 10




           Virus-free. www.avast.com




                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 4:03 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com>
Sent:                             Sunday, March 11, 2018 3:32 PM
To:                               gkirby@redwoodcity.org; dcbertini@menlopark.org; Perron, Zachary;
                                  paloaltofreepress@gmail.com; Council, City; council@redwoodcity.org;
                                  citycouncil@menlopark.org; Van Der Zwaag, Minka; jseybert@redwoodcity.org;
                                  stevendlee@alumni.duke.edu; HRC; chuckjagoda1@gmail.com;
                                  wilpf.peninsula.paloalto@gmail.com; roberta.ahlquist@sjsu.edu;
                                  mdiaz@redwoodcity.org; cbolanos@co.sanmateo.ca.us; griffinam@sbcglobal.net;
                                  cindy.chavez@bos.sccgov.org
Subject:                          Social Justice and Public Interest Happenings: March 12 - 16, 2018




                 Click here Having trouble viewing this email?




                  March 12 ‐ 16, 2018


                  HENDERSON CENTER
                  Henderson Center Workshop
                  ENDING HABITS OF WHITE SUPREMACY IN THE LEGAL PROFESSION
                  w/Dia Penning, Racial Equity & Diversity Workshop Facilitator, World Trust
                  Wednesday, March 14, 2018, 4:00 ‐ 6:30 PM in 215‐B Boalt Hall (Dean's Seminar Room)




                                                                 1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 4:03 PM


                 No matter our race, politics, or intentions, everyone in the legal community is exposed to white
                 supremacy. What do we do with this exposure? Ignore it? Internalize it? Check out? Together
                 we'll practice seeing, naming, and responding to (sometimes unconscious) habits of white
                 supremacy in law, law school, and lawyering. Using the mind, body, heart, dialogue,
                 storytelling, and analysis, we'll dive (or dip toes) into personalized, transformational race work.
                 Join us. All are welcome. Co‐sponsored by Coalition for Diversity at Berkeley Law, Berkeley Law
                 Muslim Student Association, Law Students of African Descent, and Women of Color Collective
                 at Berkeley Law. Dinner will be served. RSVP here.


                 Henderson Center Co‐sponsored Event
                 CITY OF INMATES: CONQUEST, REBELLION, AND THE RISE OF HUMAN CAGING
                 IN LOS ANGELES, 1771‐196
                 w/Kelly Lytle Hernández, Professor of History and African American Studies, UCLA
                 Wednesday, March 14, 2018, 4:00 ‐ 5:30 PM in 290 Hearst Memorial Mining Building

                 Come and hear Professor Kelly Lytle Hernández share from her latest book, City of Inmates:
                 Conquest, Rebellion, and the Rise of Human Caging in Los Angeles, 1771‐1965. Los Angeles
                 incarcerates more people than any other city in the United States, which imprisons more people
                 than any other nation on Earth. City of Inmates explains how the City of Angels became the
                 capital city of the world's leading incarcerator. Marshaling more than two centuries of evidence,
                 historian Hernández unmasks how histories of native elimination, immigrant exclusion, and
                 black disappearance drove the rise of incarceration in Los Angeles. In this telling, which spans
                 from the Spanish colonial era to the outbreak of the 1965 Watts Rebellion, Hernández
                 documents the persistent historical bond between the racial fantasies of conquest, namely its
                 settler colonial form, and the eliminatory capacities of incarceration. Hosted by the Center for
                 Research on Social Change, part of the Institute for the Study of Societal Issues and co‐
                 sponsored with Department of History, Townsend Center for the Humanities, and Division of
                 Equity and Inclusion, UC Berkeley.


                 Henderson Center Ruth Chance Lecture Series
                 BEYOND INCARCERATION: A LAWYER'S ROLE IN DISRUPTING THE CARCERAL
                 STATE
                 w/Sonja Tonnesen '13, Deputy Director of Program Innovation & Strategic
                 Partnerships, Root & Rebound
                 Thursday, March 15, 2018, 12:45 ‐ 2:00 PM in 134 Boalt Hall

                 Sonja Tonnesen (Class of 2013, Berkeley Law) is deputy director of Root & Rebound, an
                 Oakland organization increasing access to justice and opportunity for people in reentry from
                 prison and jail. Her goal is to elevate voices, shine light in dark places, and democratize the law
                 for people, families, and communities impacted by what she calls "America's criminally unjust
                 systems." She'll outline the biggest challenges to successful reentry, and she'll talk about how
                 she became a social entrepreneur right after law school (including what she needed to learn and
                 unlearn). RSVP here.


                 Henderson Center Co‐sponsored Event


                                                         2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 4:03 PM


                 A SYMPOSIUM HONORING PROFESSOR FRANKLIN ZIMRING
                 Friday, March 16, 2018, 8:00 AM ‐ 4:00 PM at the Bancroft Hotel

                 The Berkeley Journal of Criminal Law invites you to attend a symposium in honor of Franklin E.
                 Zimring's 75th birthday. The symposium will feature speakers who have worked with and been
                 influenced by Professor Zimring over the course of his career. They will be present on a variety
                 of criminal justice issues, including capital punishment, mass incarceration, gun control, and
                 juvenile justice. Breakfast and lunch will be provided. The symposium will be followed by a
                 reception. RSVP here.


                 20TH ANNUAL TRINA GRILLO PUBLIC INTEREST AND SOCIAL JUSTICE RETREAT
                 "Advocating for Change: The Different Roles We Each Play to Improve Our Communities"
                 Friday, March 16, 2018 & Saturday, March 17, 2018 at USF School of Law (San Francisco,
                 CA)

                 The Trina Grillo Retreat is a unique opportunity for public interest and social justice‐oriented
                 law students, faculty, and practitioners to forge an alliance by exchanging viewpoints, exploring
                 career opportunities, and formulating strategies for social justice. This year's theme,
                 "Advocating for Change: The Different Roles We Each Play to Improve Our Communities."
                 Berkeley Law has been allocated ten registration spots for this retreat.




                 EXPERIENTIAL EDUCATION
                 BIG WEEK presents: IMMIGRATION DETENTION 101
                 Tuesday, March 13, 2018, 1:00 ‐ 2:00 PM in 130 Boalt Hall

                 Come learn about the immigration detention system from attorneys and advocates from
                 Pangea Legal Services in San Francisco. This panel is a part of Berkeley Immigration Group's
                 week of fundraising to launch a new immigration bond fund. Donate to the bond fund directly
                 on Venmo (@BerkeleyBIG) or pledge to donate a day of pay here. BIG Week is sponsored
                 by: Berkeley Immigration Group, Asian American Law Journal (AALJ), Asian Pacific American
                 Law Student Association (APALSA), Berkeley Journal of Criminal Law (BJCL), California Asylum
                 Representation Clinic (CARC), International Refugee Assistance Project (IRAP), La Raza Law
                 Students Association, Post‐Conviction Advocacy Project (PCAP), Women of Berkeley Law
                 (WOBL), and Café Zeb.


                 IRAP ON THE GROUND: REPORT ON REFUGEES IN JORDAN
                 Wednesday, March 14, 2018, 12:45 ‐ 2:00 pm in 170 Boalt Hall

                 Join IRAP to hear about students' experiences on their recent trip to Jordan with IRAP National.
                 There will be a short panel discussion, followed by a Q&A. IRAP Berkeley will also be releasing
                 our annual report on the chapter and trip. Lunch provided on a first come, first served basis.




                                                         3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 4:03 PM

                       Thelton E. Henderson Center for Social Justice, UC Berkeley School of Law,
                                         897 Simon Hall, Berkeley, CA 94720

                                            SafeUnsubscribe™ abjpd1@gmail.com
                          Forward This Email to a Friend | Update Profile | About our service provider
                               Sent by henderson.center@law.berkeley.edu in collaboration with




                                                     Try it free today




                                                       4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 4:06 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Robert Lum <rlum.mail@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Sunday, March 11, 2018 6:19 PM
To:                              Architectural Review Board
Cc:                              Council, City; Clerk, City
Subject:                         Stop VERIZON CELL TOWERS


Dear ARB,

Please stop the deployment of the VERIZON CELL TOWERS. Unfortunately, I cannot attend the March 15, 2018 meeting,
as I do have to work so I can live in this great city. Please keep it great and the aesthetics do matter!! Verizon can
underground the boxes eliminating noise and unsightly boxes. As a long time resident of Barron Park, we want to
underground ALL utilities and it would be a short sighted decision to allow VERIZON to put towers and antennas up.
Stop this nonsense and keep Palo Alto a place that people WANT to live and work.

Robert Lum
Barron Park




                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 4:00 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Susan Foster <susan.foster04@gmail.com>
Sent:                              Sunday, March 11, 2018 1:02 PM
To:                                Council, City; Clerk, City; Architectural Review Board
Subject:                           Strongly Oppose Wireless Project 17PLN-00169
Attachments:                       Palo Alto Wireless Project 17PLN 031018.docx; FCC Comments Firefighter Study
                                   2013.pdf


Please see attached letter and FCC filing.

Thank you,

Susan Foster




                                                           1
                                                                 FCC 13-39

                                  Before the
                       Federal Communications Commission
                             Washington, D.C. 20554



In the Matter of                                      )
                                                      )
Reassessment of Federal Communications                )    ET Docket No. 13-84
Commission Radiofrequency Exposure Limits and         )
Policies                                              )
                                                      )
Proposed Changes in the Commission’s Rules            )    ET Docket No. 03-137
Regarding Human Exposure to Radiofrequency            )
Electromagnetic Fields                                )
                                                      )




To:    Office of the Secretary
       Federal Communications Commission
       Washington, DC 20554




Comment Filed by:         Susan D. Foster, MSW
                          15957 Avenida Calma
                          Rancho Santa Fe, CA 92091
                          susan.foster04@gmail.com
                          858 756-3532

                                                           September 2, 2013




                                           1
                           AFFIDAVIT OF Susan D. Foster, MSW


State of California            ]

San Diego County       ]

I, Susan D. Foster, MSW, attest that my statements are true to the best of my knowledge.

Comment round for FCC ET Docket No. 13-84 and ET Docket No. 03-137

1. My name is Susan D. Foster, MSW. My address is 15957 Avenida Calma, Rancho Santa
Fe, CA 92091.

2. I am a medical writer and the organizer of a brain study of California firefighters exposed
to RF radiation from a cell tower adjacent to their fire station of over 5 years.


3. In 2004 I organized a pilot study of California firefighters who worked up to ninety (90)
hours per week in fire stations with cell towers in close proximity to the two (2) stations
where the firefighters work, eat, and sleep. The men were experiencing profound
neurological symptoms following activation of the towers in 1999.


4. The symptoms experienced by the firefighters, all of whom had passed rigorous physical
and cognitive exams prior to being hired by the fire department, included but were not
limited to the following: headaches, extreme fatigue, sleep disruption, anesthesia-like sleep
where the men woke up for 911 calls “as if they were drugged”, inability to sleep,
depression, anxiety, unexplained anger, getting lost on 911 calls in the town they grew up in,
a twenty (20) year medic forgetting basic CPR in the midst of resuscitating a coronary
victim, immune-suppression manifest in frequent colds and flu-like symptoms.


5. The neurological testing and SPECT scans [single-photon emission computed
tomography] of the brain were conducted by Gunnar Heuser, MD, PhD and J. Michael
Uszler, MD. All six (6) firefighters were found to have brain abnormalities on SPECT scan.
The doctors thought they would find areas of limited function in the brain based on the



                                                2
symptomatology. Instead, they found a pervasive, hyper-excitability of the neurons which
suggested the exposure to RF (microwave) radiation was causing the neurons to continually
fire, without rest. RF radiation appeared to act as a constant stimulant even when the men
were away from the station, and in repose. The SPECT scans were considered abnormal in
all 6 firefighters.


6. Cognitive function, reaction time, and impulse control were measured objectively using
T.O.V.A. testing [Test of Variables of Attention]. In all six (6) firefighters, impairment was
found with cognitive function, reaction time and impulse control. Three (3) of the six (6)
firefighters were captains. The captain on each shift is in charge of making life altering
decisions for all firefighters and potential victims. They order firefighters into a burning
building, and conversely, they order them out before a roof may collapse, for example.
Impairment of all three critical functions could cost firefighters and the community they
serve either life or limb.


7. The testing was conducted in 2004. The cell towers are in place at the two (2) fire stations
where the test subjects work for the duration of a twenty-two (22) year lease. The men we
tested have remained at the stations as this is the only work they know in the only community
they have ever lived in. One (1) of the six (6) men tested did move to another department
after his wife gave birth to to a boy who was diagnosed with Autism at age 2. This was the
first live birth experienced by the “firefighter family” at this department since activation of
the tower three (3) years earlier.


8. I have followed up with the firefighters who report continued symptoms as described in
paragraph 4. Additionally, all firefighters report profound memory loss.


9. Two (2) of the firefighters, men we did not test in the pilot study but men who were
exposed to RF radiation from the cell tower since their installation and activation in 1999,
have gone out on psychiatric disability. This is almost unheard of among firefighters. The
diagnosis was Post Traumatic Stress Disorder for one firefighter; he went out on an
emergency run, and simply stopped talking after he returned to the station. The second



                                                3
firefighter suffered an apparent break with reality. This occurred in the fire station when he
returned following a short term disability for an unrelated injury. This break with reality was
followed by an abrupt collapse and loss of consciousness. Because two (2) women have
suffered strokes while in the fire station with the towers fully activated, Vascular Spasm
Stroke (VSS) is suspected as a possible cause by Dr. Heuser and myself of having caused not
only the strokes, but it is suspected in the potentially inaccurate diagnoses of the two (2)
“psychiatric” cases among the firefighters. If not treated with rest and supplemental oxygen,
it is possible for some VSS patients to have difficulty regaining speech and full cognitive
abilities. This may be a case of misdiagnosis by the treating physicians who were unfamiliar
with the potential of cell towers to create thermal effects well under the FCC limit of 1,000
uW/cm2, thus heating blood in the brain and inducing VSS. Further study of these men is
imperative.


10. What is particularly germane to the critical decisions the FCC is currently facing
regarding RF safety guidelines is the fact the FCC currently allows 1,000 microwatts per
centimeter squared (uW/cm2) as an emission standard from cell towers. Yet all the
symptoms attributed by the firefighters, as well as measurable brain and central nervous
system abnormalities described above, occurred within close proximity to a cell tower
measured at between 1 - 2 uW/cm2 by Peter Sierck, BBEC, CEO of Environmental Testing
& Technology in Encinitas, CA. Thus the emissions from towers were measured at
approximately 1/1000th to 1/500th of the FCC’s allowable limit. “Hot spots” of reflected
radiation were measured at 15 and 30 uW/cm2, yet these “hot spots” were still a fraction of
what the FCC allows. Therefore, I strongly suggest the FCC is not basing its standards
on biological effects by taking into consideration non-thermal effects, but rather physics
with respect to the belief only thermal effects can be deleterious. The FCC must
recognized the principles of physics do not protect the brains and central nervous systems of
the strongest among us, our firefighters.


11. The failure to protect our populations based on biological effects of exposure to RF
(microwave) radiation at non-thermal levels is an inherent shortcoming of the current FCC
policy with respect to cell tower emissions and cell phone absorption. The adverse biological



                                                4
impact of these exposures are grossly underestimated. The FCC does not have independent
science that can justify the massive exposure to RF radiation that currently exists from cell
towers and cell phones. The story told by our small pilot study of firefighters in California
should be a warning with respect to the current failure to recognize harmful neurological
impact of non-thermal levels of RF radiation.


12. Based on the neurological abnormalities Dr. Heuser and I found in the firefighters,
including hyper-excitability of the neurons which can results in cell death and consequent
neuro-degenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s Disease and ALS, I urge the
FCC to reflect on the gravity of the decision facing you now, and I implore all
Commissioners to reduce the allowable level of RF radiation immediately, and to not only
recognize the adverse health effects from non-thermal levels of RF radiation, but to actively
and aggressively protect and education the general public through policy change and PSAs.


13. Finally, the FCC is not a health agency, yet it is entrusted with making decisions that
impact the health of every American, including the unborn and those who cannot – through
inability or lack of knowledge of the issues and dangers at hand – speak for themselves.
Many consumers are encouraged through industry advertising to believe that their children
will be disadvantaged if they do not have the latest wireless technology. Given the most
recent culling of science in the BioInitiative Report 2012, this reckless promotion without
any proof of safety puts them and their progeny at risk for neurological, immunological and
reproductive harm. Furthermore, the “revolving door”-culture between the FCC and the
telecommunications industry works against the best interest of consumers’ health and safety.
Both the FCC and the industry reach for a common refrain to hang on to their egregiously
high regulatory limits which the FCC tries to pass off as “safety limits”, but clearly they are
not. That refrain tells the public time and again that “there is a lack of scientific consensus
about the adverse health effects” at exposure levels at or below the existing FCC limits. No,
there is not a true lack of consensus. There is a flagrant disregard by the FCC for
excellent, peer review science showing adverse health effects at less than 1% of what the
FCC allows. Even if this were not the case, when have we determined everyone must be on
the same side, the same page, before precautionary approaches are implemented? Did we



                                                5
wait for this 100% accord on the science regarding DDT? No, if we had done that, Dow
Chemical would never have agreed their product was dangerous and the world would be a
less safe place than it is now. The same argument can be used for tobacco. It is past time for
the FCC to lean toward the side of protecting human life rather than telecommunications
industry profits. I contend a true Precautionary Approach would be both efficient and
practical. It would protect human life, the quality of those lives, prevent disease, enhance the
opportunity for human potential by not insidiously eroding our greatest natural resource – the
human brain, and it would keep health care costs down. I implore the FCC to recognize that
six (6) out of six (6) SPECT brain scans were abnormal for the firefighter subjects, and they
are the strongest of the strong among us.


                                              Respectfully submitted by
                                              Susan D. Foster, MSW
                                              15957 Avenida Calma
                                              Rancho Santa Fe, CA 92091
                                              September 2, 2013


                                              Susan D. Foster, MSW
                                                              (Electronically submitted)




                                               6
Susan D. Foster
_____________________________________________________________________________________________
                                                                                  15957 Avenida Calma
                                                                      Rancho Santa Fe, California 92091
                                                                            susan.foster04@gmail.com




March 11, 2018

City Council of Palo Alto

Re: Strongly Oppose Wireless Project 17PLN-00169
City.Council@cityofpaloalto.org
City.Clerk@cityofpaloalto.org
arb@cityofpaloalto.org

Dear City Council Members:

I respectfully oppose Verizon’s proposal for in excess of 90 small cell installations in the public
right of way, known as Wireless Project 17PLN-00169 and scheduled for hearings on March 15,
2018. You will have the opportunity to evaluate the potential costs and benefits to the City of
Palo Alto and its residents. I have great concern about the health and safety of your residents if
this project goes forward. This concern is based on my experience organizing a brain study of
firefighters exposed to a 2G cell tower on their station in Central California for over five (5)
years. This was a pilot study of six (6) firefighters. We found brain damage in all six firefighters
consistent with RF exposure.

As a result of this study, as well as adverse neurological symptoms experienced by a number of
firefighters throughout the state who have lived and worked in the shadow of cell towers, the
firefighters of California were granted an exemption from having these small cells on their fire
stations. This exemption was written into both AB 57 and SB 649, bills designed to bypass local
control with respect to small cell expansion. SB 649 was vetoed by Gov. Brown on October 15,
2017, amidst growing concern from citizens as well as the League of Cities.

BACKGROUND RE. FIREFIGHTER EXEMPTION

In 2001 I was asked by San Diego firefighters to write appeals when cell towers were permitted
for their stations. I began hearing more and more stories of firefighters who literally could not
function in the job that clearly establishes firefighters as the guardians of society. Once cell
towers were activated on or adjacent to their stations, the affected firefighters could no longer
function without severe headaches, inability to sleep, and foggy thinking. These are not
symptoms we wish to see in our First Responders.

In 2004 I organized a SPECT brain scan pilot study of firefighters who has been exposed to a
cell tower on their station for over five years. As stated above, we found brain abnormalities in
all firefighters tested. Attached is my filing with the FCC detailing this study.

In 2004 I co-authored Resolution 15 which was passed overwhelmingly by the International
Association of Firefighters. Res. 15 urging a moratorium on the placement of cell towers on fire
stations in the US and Canada. I then helped the Los Angeles IAFF locals as they aligned with
law enforcement unions to fight FirstNET cell towers on their stations. I am currently aware of a
brain tumor cluster in a California fire station with a wireless hub next door to their station.

There is a solid history of these men and women becoming ill in close proximity to cell towers.
There are human and financial costs associated, and the Palo Alto City Council needs to hear
their story.

The symptoms experienced by the firefighters who participated in the SPECT brain scan study
were similar to firefighters in other stations who live in the shadow of cell towers. Yet specific to
the men we studied, it is important to note all the men had passed rigorous physical and cognitive
exams prior to being hired by the fire department. Their symptoms included:

   •   headaches
   •   extreme fatigue
   •   cognitive impairment
   •   anesthesia-like sleep where the men woke up for 911 calls “as if they were drugged”
   •   inability to sleep
   •   depression
   •   anxiety
   •   unexplained anger
   •   immune-suppression manifest in frequent colds and flu-like symptoms

Real life examples of these symptoms are best briefly characterized by:

   1) Firefighters got lost on 911 calls in the town they grew up on several occasions.
   2) In one instance, four firefighters sat in the rig in a stupor with the alarm sounding in the
      background, unable to remember how to start the engine.
   3) A medic with 20 years of experience who had never made a mistake forgot basic CPR in
      the midst of resuscitating a coronary victim.

The brain scans of these six men revealed both an over-stimulation in some areas of the brain,
and a lack of perfusion, or blood flow, in others. The over-stimulation or “hyper-excitability” of
the neurons suggested the exposure to RF (microwave) radiation was causing the neurons to
continually fire without benefit of rest. When neurons cannot rest, they ultimately die.
Alternately, there were other areas of the brain that should have been active, yet there was
evidence of diminished blood flow suggesting impaired function.

A MESSAGE FROM FIREFIGHTERS FOR LOCALITIES

The firefighters’ most important lesson to us may be that if we allow a buildout of small cell
aimed at facilitating 5G such that they are as commonplace in front of homes and schools as they
are now on fire stations, we may be facing not only an immediate risk of impairment to some
degree, but later a tsunami of Alzheimer’s and dementia. The rate of people dying from
Alzheimer's disease in the United States rose by 55% over a 15-year period according to new
data from the Centers for Disease Control.

Clearly the state legislators honored the sacrifice of California’s firefighters and were
concerned about the health risks they face from cell towers, having granted an exemption
to them from small cells through AB 57 and SB 649. Yet firefighters are the strongest of the
strong. What does that imply for the rest of us?

The firefighters with their fire station exemption from AB 57 and SB 649 are here to remind us
your local decision is not just about cell towers. It is about our future. Are we going to be
persuaded by 5G propelled driverless cars and appliances being connected to our smartphones?
Please understand this is an immense gamble. 5G has never been tested on humans.

Respectfully,

/s/ Susan Foster

SUSAN FOSTER
U.S. Adviser, Radiation Research Trust
Honorary Firefighter, San Diego Fire Department
Medical Writer

Attachment
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 3:27 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           DP Purchases <orders.dp@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Thursday, March 08, 2018 9:47 PM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        Support Bike Blvd and Bike Safety projects - DO NOT CUT funding




Dear Palo Alto City Council,

As you consider financial cuts necessary to balance the budget please stay committed to Palo Alto’s
commitment as a Bike-friendly 🚲 city and continue to prioritize the important bicycle and safety projects we all
hold so dear. Our future depends on cleaner, healthier ways to commute!


I strongly support bike boulevard funding and improvements to bicycle infrastructure.

Thank you for all you do,

Daja Phillips - 450 Sequoia Ave
650.485.3252

Carefully pecked out on my handheld.


This message (including any attachments) may contain confidential and proprietary information and is intended
for a specific purpose for specific recipient(s). If you are not the intended recipient, kindly advise me of the
inadvertent error. In addition, please delete this message. Any unauthorized use, disclosure, copying or
distribution of this message is strictly prohibited.




                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 3:27 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Richard Morse <rsmorse@gmail.com>
Sent:                              Thursday, March 08, 2018 10:57 PM
To:                                Council, City
Cc:                                Ben@bikesiliconvalley.org
Subject:                           Support for Bike Infrastructure


Hello ‐

My name is Richard Morse, I live with my wife and three children (16, 14 and 8 years old) at the southern edge of Palo
Alto. Having moved here 6 years ago, and as an avid cyclist, I have been extremely impressed with the bike
infrastructure here and delighted by the recognition of the city as a Gold Status Bike Friendly Community. As a council
you should be pleased with your efforts!

I am writing to support the 2018 plans for additional build out of bike lanes and improvements for bike (and pedestrian)
safety. Two of my children ride their bikes every day to school (Terman and Gunn). Both also ride all over the city to visit
friends, get to Palo Alto Children’s Theater, shop, and work. I ride at least 100 miles per week for fitness, and my wife
and youngest child ride recreationally. We are situated a block from the Miller/Wilkie bike route, and we enjoy easy
access to all the rest of Palo Alto from our home. Many weekends we rarely use our cars; we bike to eat, to the
California Ave farmer’s market, to the library, and to the pool.

As a family, we all welcome any and all ongoing efforts to continue to improve bike infrastructure and safety. Efforts to
enhance Bryant, East Meadow and Louis Rd in particular will ease our bike travel to some of the places we want to ride
to most. In addition, I urge you to review the Charleston/Arastradero and El Camino intersection. This is a major
intersection on a hugely popular school bike route, and not only do all bike lanes end and dump riders into traffic at the
intersection, but also the road is in terrible condition. This is one place where some additional efforts to improve the
infrastructure would have, I believe, a disproportionate positive impact. Check it out for yourself!

Thank you for your attention.

Richard Morse




                                                             1
                                                                   Please Contact the Clerk’s Office
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/14/2018 8:18 AM            to View Additional Pages,
                                                                   Attachments, or Images Related
                                                                           to this Document
Carnahan, David

From:                            LWV of Palo Alto <lwvpaoffice@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Tuesday, March 13, 2018 1:27 PM
Subject:                         The April issue of the Palo Alto VOTER
Attachments:                     April 2018 VOTER .pdf




The Palo Alto VOTER
The April 2018 issue is attached as a PDF. Please save this to your desktop and enjoy!


--
League of Women Voters of Palo Alto
3921 E. Bayshore Road
Palo Alto, CA 94303
(650) 903-0600




                                                          1
                                        Message from our President
 Our community is fortunate to have such an amazing League of Women Voters. I am constantly being
 inspired by the energy, creativity, thoughtfulness and dedication of the members of your board and off-
 board. They are the ones, with your help, who make our League so strong.
 We do so much because so much needs to be done.
 Voter Services – the core of our League - is busy at the high schools registering teens to vote. They are
 also beginning to gear up for the June primary; getting ready for pros and cons on ballot measures,
 candidates forums, and learning how to use Voters’ Edge. There is a lot to do and your help is always
 appreciated.
 Advocacy – our other important arm – is busy locally following and commenting on the actions of the City Council and
 Planning and Transportation Commission as they review various important proposals and ordinances to help increase the
 supply of affordable housing. We have also been before the Human Relations Commission supporting a proposed
 ordinance to address discrimination against women – inspired by CEDAW (United Nations Convention on the
 Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women).
 Advocacy is also busy helping with the all-important effort to collect signatures for the Prop 13 Reform initiative for the
 Schools and Communities First Campaign. Please see p.6 for info on how you can help.
 Our League also participated in the annual Legislative Interviews with Assemblyman Marc Berman and Senator Jerry
 Hill. See p.4 for a summary of the Marc Berman interview.
 Programs and Events: These are amazing in their scope and impact.
 Recently, Julie Lythcott -Haims gave a most moving talk from her recent book, What it Means to Be Black and American,
 on February 20. Then Chris Field, Director of the Stanford Woods Institute, hosted a fascinating webinar on Food
 Production and Carbon Emissions. (See pictures on p.3) Upcoming is an event with Berkeley Law School Dean
 Chemerinsky on the First Amendment, at the Media Center on March 27 and a not-to-be missed panel, co-sponsored with
 the Palo Alto Council of PTAs at Paly on April 9, titled How Do We Know What Is True Anymore?– put together by our
 Civic Savvy Committee. See front page for more info.
 Thanks to those of you who attended a productive Program Planning event in January. This event helps us plan how to
 focus our energies in the next League year. You will vote on the issues for emphasis recommended by the Board at our
 Annual Meeting on May 12, where you will also vote on next year’s leadership and the budget. Please be sure this is on
 your calendar.
 As our League grows in membership, we are working to ensure that our Board and Off-Board are organized effectively to
 do what needs to be done. We also are dependent on your generosity, so please respond with a donation during our LAT
 campaign.
 Thanks again for all you do, for our community, our nation, and our world.
                                                                                                           Bonnie Packer

   LWV of Palo Alto: Officers, Directors, Off-Board Roster (650) 903-0600, www.lwvpaloalto.org
    OFFICERS                             DIRECTORS                                      OFF-BOARD
                                                                     Diane Rolfe                  Mary Alice Thornton
Bonnie Packer                Jeannie Lythcott Sue Hermsen            Edu. Co-chair and            Fundraising Chair
President                    Voter Services   VOTER Editor           Collaborations Co-Chair
president@lwvpaloalto.org                                                                         Lisa Peschcke-Koedt
                                                                     Sigrid Pinsky                Civic Savvy Chair
Aisha Piracha-Zakariya       Megan Swezey       David Springer       Edu. Co-chair
                             Fogarty &          Voter’s Edge                                      Kathy Miller
1st Vice President                                                   Veronica Tincher             Voter Services Co-Chair
                             Lynne Russell                           New Voices for Youth
Ellen Forbes                                    Ellen Smith                                       Tory Bers
                             Membership
2nd Vice President,                             Board                Valerie Stinger              Publicity/Media
Communications,                                 Development          Budget Chair
                             Lisa Ratner                                                          Paula Collins
Webmaster                                       Chair                Mindy Anderson
                             Advocacy                                                             Auditor
                                                                     Facebook Admin.
Karen Kalinsky                                                                                    Nominating Committee
Secretary, Collaborations    Maureen                                 Mary Jo Levy
                             O’Kicki                                 League Presentations         Chris Logan, Chair
Co-chair                                                                                          Nancy Smith
                             Program/Events                          Liza Taft
Steve Levy                                                                                        Ellen Springer
Treasurer, Housing and       Organizer                               Voter Reg., VOTER            Lynne Russell
Transportation Chair                                                 Distribution                 Ellen Smith

LWVPA                                                         !2                                                  April, 2018
                    Board Meeting Highlights - February, 2018
Your Board
•   Ratified an email vote to approve a letter to City Council in support of the Housing Work
    Plan, sent on 2/5/18
•   Ratified an email vote to approve a letter to Planning & Transportation Commission in support
    of an Affordable Housing zoning overlay, sent on 2/10/18
•   Ratified an email vote to approve a letter to the Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors asking them to support a
    proposal to create and fund a plan to commemorate the 100th Anniversary of the 19th Amendment (women’s right
    to vote), sent via email on 2/22/18
•   Ratified an email vote to have Packer delegate Lisa Ratner read a letter at the Human Relations Commission on
    behalf of LWVPA in support of an ordinance reflecting the intent of CEDAW (UN Convention for the Elimination
    of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women) on 2/8/18
•   Approved a Motion to add additional faith-based organizations to the list of potential “publicity only” co-sponsors
    of our events, which would be vetted by the Collaborations and Community Outreach Committee and contacted as
    appropriate on an event-by-event basis
•   Approved a Motion to refer to County Council the question of what the Santa Clara County Leagues should
    consider doing as an educational event regarding the recall of Judge Persky
•   Approved a Motion to join the LWV of California campaign to gather signatures to get the “California Schools
    and Local Communities Funding Act of 2018” (reform of Prop. 13) on the November ballot
•   Accepted the Program Planning report: i. to be sent to the LWVUS; ii. to be sent to the Bay Area LWV; and iii.
    issues for emphasis to be submitted to the LWVPA membership for approval at the Annual Meeting.
Discussed
•   A reminder from the Board Development Committee about League rules for board members regarding political or
    partisan activity
•   Ideas from the Board Development Committee on reorganizing our board’s structure, which will be presented as a
    proposal at the March board meeting
•   Planning for an LWVPA 80th anniversary event and a social event for new board/old board members after the
    Annual Meeting.
Learned
• About an April 9th event organized by our Civic Savvy Committee and co-sponsored by the Palo Alto PTA Council
  about practical tips on how to evaluate the integrity of information
• That the Education Committee will be looking for volunteers to help gather signatures for the “California Schools
  and Local Communities Funding Act of 2018”
• About the continuing efforts of the Voter Services team to register teens at Palo Alto and Gunn High Schools and
  local independent schools, as well as our unhoused citizens.
                                                                                              Karen Kalinsky, Secretary


 LWVPA Hosts a Variety of Speakers
 LWVPA hosted two more thought-provoking and informative events
 in recent weeks. Author Julie
 Lythcott-Haims spoke to a full room at
 the Palo Alto Art Center in February
 about race in America. In March,
 Director Chris Field of the Stanford
 Woods Insitute spoke on Food
 Production and the Environment at a
 lunchtime event at the PCC. Special
 thanks to Maureen O’Kicki for                                                         Left: Julie Lythcott-Haims at the PA
                                                                                       Art Center
 arranging for such engaging speakers.
                                                                                       Above: Chris Field at the PCC

LWVPA                                                     !3                                                    April, 2018
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 4:00 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com>
Sent:                         Sunday, March 11, 2018 11:49 AM
To:                           paloaltofreepress@gmail.com; Council, City; council@redwoodcity.org;
                              dpine@smcgov.org; dprice@padailypost.com; bos@smcgov.org;
                              cindy.chavez@bos.sccgov.org; wilpf.peninsula.paloalto@gmail.com;
                              roberta.ahlquist@sjsu.edu; stephanie@dslextreme.com; chuckjagoda1@gmail.com;
                              gkirby@redwoodcity.org; dcbertini@menlopark.org; Perron, Zachary; HRC;
                              mdiaz@redwoodcity.org; stevendlee@alumni.duke.edu;
                              stephenedwardjessen@gmail.com; griffinam@sbcglobal.net; dryan@scscourt.org;
                              aflint@scscourt.org; Keene, James; mharris@scscourt.org; sscott@scscourt.org;
                              molly.o'neal@pdo.sccgov.org; jrosen@da.sccgov.org; grchippendale@yahoo.com;
                              seanchiba650@gmail.com; paloaltolife@gmail.com; cbolanos@co.sanmateo.ca.us;
                              dave.cortese@bos.sccgov.org; joe.simitian@bos.sccgov.org; Kniss, Liz (internal);
                              Arcelia.Gutierrez@pdo.sccgov.org; Gary.Goodman@pdo.sccgov.org;
                              bwalsh@scscourt.org; jseybert@redwoodcity.org; jsylva@da.sccgov.org
Subject:                      The Race-Based Mortgage Penalty


https://mobile.nytimes.com/2018/03/07/opinion/mortage-minority-income.html

Shared via the Google app


Sent from my iPhone




                                                      1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/14/2018 7:55 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                               redress.of.grievance@gmail.com
Sent:                               Tuesday, March 13, 2018 9:06 AM
To:                                 Dave Price; allison@padailypost.com; Council, City; Keith, Claudia;
                                    gsheyner@paweekly.com; sdremann@paweekly.com; Stump, Molly; Watson, Ron;
                                    bwelch@dao.sccgov.org; swebby@da.sccgov.org; cindy.chavez@bos.sccgov.org;
                                    timothygray@sbcglobal.net; Gary.Goodman@pdo.sccgov.org; jeramygordon@me.com;
                                    bjohnson@paweekly.com; Keene, James; Reifschneider, James;
                                    molly.o'neal@pdo.sccgov.org; Perron, Zachary; jgreen@dailynewsgroup.com;
                                    michael.gennaco@oirgroup.com; Van Der Zwaag, Minka; HRC;
                                    bjohnson@embarcaderomediagroup.com; Jay Boyarsky; jrosen@da.sccgov.org; James
                                    Aram; Jonsen, Robert
Subject:                            The Russians have landed in Palo Alto


Mr. Price:

Why did you not play by the Federal rules of court conduct when you shut our site down PaloAltoFreePress.com for
alleged copyright infringement under title 17 Digital Millennial Copy Right Act.

You failed by not filing an order of cease and desist.

You proved your false claims by not doing so Mr. Price. It drives the point home and illustrates trueness of your Fake
News Media and your vindictiveness to shut down a minority newspaper..

Mark Petersen‐Perez
Editor: Palo Alto Free Press
Ticuantepe, Nicaragua 🇳🇮

Sent from my iPad

> On Mar 13, 2018, at 8:40 AM, redress.of.grievance@gmail.com wrote:
>
>
> And Putin will be picketing your Fake News Media offices in the near future...
>
> <image1.jpeg>
>
>
>
>
> Sent from my iPhone




                                                            1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 3:21 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Sea <paloaltolife@gmail.com>
Sent:                         Thursday, March 08, 2018 6:37 AM
To:                           vinnyraylarkin@yahoo.com; gsheyner@paweekly.com;
                              bwarchangelmichael@gmail.com; Council, City; edmeko@gmail.com;
                              jspradling@yahoo.com; seelam22@yahoo.com; williamfok86@gmail.com;
                              nravi.desai@gmail.com; leila_reddy@hotmail.com; andrewreddy6@gmail.com; Marshall
                              Childs; skundurs@gmail.com
Subject:                      Tweet by Sea-Seelam Reddy on Twitter




                                                   Sea-Seelam Reddy (@SealamReddy)

 3/8/18, 06:22
 Palo Alto inspiring women Liz Niss Condi Rice Karen Holman Gail Price @cityofpaloalto @SenFeinstein
 @KamalaHarris @ABCPolitics @CNNPolitics @NBCPolitics @SFGate @mercnews @JerryBrownGov
 #WomensDay2018 pic.twitter.com/0xvfuY7Aau


Download the Twitter app


Sent from my iPhone




                                                     1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/14/2018 8:21 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Claudia <claudiaegriffin@gmail.com>
Sent:                             Wednesday, March 14, 2018 8:16 AM
To:                               Architectural Review Board
Cc:                               Council, City; Clerk, City
Subject:                          Verizon




Dear ARB,
I am writing to you to request that you deny approval of the Verizon cell towers in Palo Alto residential neighborhoods ,
due to their appearance, noise and possible harmful effects. Please keep our city a place where we want to live.
Best regards,
Claudia




                                                            1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 3:59 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Francesca <dfkautz@pacbell.net>
Sent:                           Saturday, March 10, 2018 10:07 PM
To:                             Architectural Review Board
Cc:                             Council, City; Clerk, City
Subject:                        Verizon cell nodes



Dear Architectural Review Board,

My name is Francesca Kautz and I have lived for over 50 years in Palo Alto, the last 32 of which have been in
the same house in the cluster 1 neighborhood. I am very concerned about the ugliness of the cell nodes, the
noise, safety and impossibility of under grounding our utilities.

If Verizon wants to increase their network coverage and capacity by locating their wireless communication
facilities closer to the user, they must put their cellular networks underground. Putting them on the telephone
poles will make under grounding our utilities impossible. There is nothing small about the 200 pound small
cells and they do not minimize visual impact to the existing surroundings. They do not blend in the
neighborhood, but stick out like sore thumbs, make noise and may negatively impact public health, safety and
welfare. Once a site is erected, Verizon can go back and increase its size provided that the changes do not
exceed federal standards.

There are many city-owned structures, commercial and industrial buildings in Palo Alto where Verizon can rent
space for their nodes and not destroy our neighborhoods. Verizon has demonstrated a lack of consideration for
the surrounding environment and will make our neighborhoods aesthetically unpleasing. The cell nodes are
visually intrusive and not architecturally compatible in any way with the neighborhood. It is not fair that while
Verizon is generating $60 billion in profit per quarter, we homeowners get to foot the bill to have our
neighborhoods destroyed and are liable should a telephone pole with a cell node on it cause damage or hurt
someone in an earthquake or fire.

I don’t think that Verizon should scare us into believing that we need these small cells in case of an emergency.
The systems we currently have in place work fine and cell phone coverage in our neighborhood is good. Many
of the benefits the wireless industry extols can be obtained using current LTE-based technologies and the
primary use of small cells is mobile video. I am also concerned that in an earthquake the bayonet placed on the
top of the telephone pole may fall down and spear someone. (See photos below.) Has the seismic performance
of these configurations been tested on earthquake shaking tables?

Please deny Verizon’s request to put the cell nodes in our residential neighborhoods, as they are ugly, noisy,
dangerous and threaten under grounding of our utilities in the future.

Thank you,

Francesca Kautz

P.S. Top 10 Things the Wireless Industry Doesn’t Tell You about Small Cells:

http://www.steelintheair.com/Blog/2017/04/top-10-things-the-wireless-industry-doesnt-tell-you-about-small-
cells.html
                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 3:59 PM

Photos taken in front of 179 Lincoln Ave.:




                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 3:59 PM




                                                     3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/14/2018 8:01 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                               Phil Coulson <philcoulson_3@yahoo.com>
Sent:                               Tuesday, March 13, 2018 11:07 AM
To:                                 Architectural Review Board
Cc:                                 Council, City; Clerk, City
Subject:                            Verizon cell tower review by ARB


Dear Architectural Review Board members:

  I am aware of the Architectural Review Board (ARB) upcoming hearing this Thursday morning, March 15th, to
consider Verizon’s latest plans to install its first wave of cell towers in Palo Alto’s residential neighborhoods. It is out of
concern for neighborhood aesthetics, home values and noise in Palo Alto that I am asking you to deny approval to the
proposed cell towers unless Verizon’s designs call for all the equipment except the antenna to be located completely
underground and comply with Palo Alto’s noise ordinances.

Thank you for your consideration.

Regards,

‐Phil Coulson




                                                               1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 4:16 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Gina Craig <gcraigx@gmail.com>
Sent:                         Monday, March 12, 2018 3:56 PM
To:                           Architectural Review Board; Council, City; Clerk, City
Subject:                      Verizon cell towers


To whom it may concern,
I am writing out of concern regarding Verizon's plsn to install cell towers in our neighborhoods.
Please, please deny approval to the proposed cell towers unless Verizon’s design calls for all of the
equipment (except the antenna) to be located completely underground and complies with Palo
Alto’s noise ordinances.

thank you!
Sincerely,
Gina Craig
Old Palo Alto




                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 3:23 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         George Jaquette <jaquette@gmail.com>
Sent:                         Thursday, March 08, 2018 11:10 AM
To:                           Council, City
Subject:                      Video of the type of near-miss happening every day



https://stoprossroadchanges.wordpress.com/


--
George Jaquette
email: jaquette@gmail.com




                                                      1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 3/12/2018 3:52 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         ken3lee@gmail.com
Sent:                         Friday, March 09, 2018 12:45 PM
To:                           Council, City
Subject:                      yes to bicycle boulevards



I am a 30 year resident and homeowner in Midtown. We badly need safer and more direct bicycle
routes across the Caltrain tracks to the California Ave train station and business district and also
across Hwy 101 to the employers near Google. Existing routes are convoluted and often involve
intimidating "no bicycle riding" signs or closures for months every year. Please do everything you can
to make bicycling around town more efficient and convenient so we can rely on bicycling as a safe
and reliable alternative to driving. Surely, bicycle route improvements are much cheaper than new
parking garages or new freeway lanes. Thank you.

K. Lee
Waverley Street




                                                      1
        RETUR N ADDRESS·
          ·~
            ;;: '-'- ..
           -~~"'~            "f~RNll'"'!SC' ~~&9'11:• ~<
                                                      ~ ~~. -               ., _

                      ~o~-                                           -~ --· ·
                                                      r       ·• .   ....                •

                                                                                                             r

                                      ~AR·<;)" - ·AA"i    l          ~                                   ·

        I support Castilleja's proposal to                           ~-
                                                                      =4~
        increase enrollment and modernize its
                                                                                   ~
                                                                                   :Z
                                                                                   ::0       nO
                                                                                             -<
        ~ 'J a.~ o.,IJ"l=!-~ ~~
        campus because...

'                                                                                  J.  !iii
    1   ~ ~ C,.o't..\."""'~            r_                                          ~.. -.,--.
                                                                                   =   ~~    -,,!::'.:
                                                                       N                     c::;P
                                                   Office of the Clerk \0                    rrin .
                                                   Please     distr~bute to all City CDunci~embers
                                                   250 Hamilton Avenue, 7th Floor
                                                   Palo Alto, CA, 94301




    -·---- ·--- --- ---··-- -----------------·

        -~~~~~~~~~"' :CA9'1Q . ~-- ~~~~;;Z
        =-~~~~~001-FM! ·L . ~---
        ~ support Castilleja's proposal to
        increase enrollment and modernize its
        campus because ...
                                                                                   -
                                                                                   CD
                                                                                   §!
                                                                                              (") (")
                                                                                              =i::;
                                                                                              -<-<
                                                                                   ::a       nO
                                                                                             ,--n
                                                                                    I
                                                                                   \0        ~~
                                                                                             ;ir;:r-
                                                                                   ~
                                                                                   :z          ·o
                                                                                             (I)
                                                       .
                                                   Off ice of the Clerk -
                                                               .
                                                   Please distribute
                                                                            -

                                                                     to all u;t
                                                                                   -cl>
                                                                                         ...,-.
                                                                                    ...,,...
                                                                            ••· c0 ~ embers
                                                   250 Hamilton Avenue , 7cn       lrr oor
                                                   Palo Alto, CA, 94301
RETURNADfJRESS:~( ) \,\l\CO/I) 4f,.




                                                                    n~
                                                             m      - ......
                                                             ;!
                                                             ::0
                                                                   ::-<
                                                                   nO
                                                                   r-.,,
                                      Office of the Clerk -           rri:u
                                      Pl       d'                 N   :;ol>
                                           ease istribute to all C~Cou~gembers
                                      250 Hamilton Avena 7t~!B.or
                                      Palo Alto, CA, 94306 971,-
                                                              ••   ..,,
                                                                   -0
                                                                        ....
                                                             -     .,,n
                                                                   n•
                                                                       •
