            DOCUMENTS IN THIS PACKET INCLUDE:


                LETTERS FROM CITIZENS TO THE
                   MAYOR OR CITY COUNCIL


    RESPONSES FROM STAFF TO LETTERS FROM CITIZENS


        ITEMS FROM MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS


      ITEMS FROM OTHER COMMITTEES AND AGENCIES


ITEMS FROM CITY, COUNTY, STATE, AND REGIONAL AGENCIES




        Prepared for:            2/5/2018
       Document dates: 1/17/2018 – 1/24/2018

                                Set 1
 Note: Documents for every category may not have been received for packet
                      reproduction in a given week.




                                                                      701-32
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:30 PM                     COUNCIL MEETING
                                                                                         01/22/2018            13
                                                                                     Received Before Meeting
Carnahan, David
                                                                                 ✔




From:                            Margaret Heath <maggi650@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Friday, January 19, 2018 8:49 PM
To:                              Council, City; CTRAboard@googlegroups.com; Keller, Arthur; Summa, Doria; Fred Balin
Subject:                         Fwd: Stanford GUP



Below is a copy of an email I have sent to Mr. Rader regarding Stanford's proposed GUP:


Date: Fri, Jan 19, 2018 at 8:37 PM
Subject: Stanford GUP
To: david.rader@pln.sccgov.org


Dear Mr. Rader,

I believe Stanford's GUP report regarding the impact of their proposed expansion on Palo Alto's streets is based
on inaccurate assumptions which minimize what the true impact will be. Stanford must be asked to redo their
study to include a more accurate projection of the impact their proposed expansion will have on Palo Alto's
streets, which are already functioning at near capacity during the extended commute hours.

Specifically, the number of employees they claim will commute by train instead of automobile is overestimated.

A) Stanford's study claims there will be longer trains which their employees will be able to use, resulting in less
impact on Palo Alto streets. However, the platforms are not long enough for these longer trains.

Unless, that is, Stanford is planning to pay to extend all the platforms to accommodate the longer trains they
claim will accommodate their additional employees.

B) Stanford's study claims there will be more frequent trains as well as longer trains to accommodate their
additional employees. However, more frequent and longer trains will effectively close the grade crossings
during the extended commute hours at Churchill, E. Meadow, and Charleston. This will result in either long
vehicle back-ups at those grade crossings, or push additional cars to the already at capacity El Camino
intersections with Embarcadero, Page Mill/Oregon, and San Antonio, or both.

Unless, that is, Stanford is planning to pay for grade separation at Churchill, E. Meadow, and Charleston.

C) In addition, Stanford must extend the scope of their study to reflect the projected impact on ALL the train
stations from San Francisco to San Jose. Including the impact on the parking capacity at the stations.

Stanford's proposed expansion will place great pressure on the area's already critical housing shortage. Their
current proposal is inadequate given the amount of additional non-residential expansion proposed. Mitigation
for permission for Stanford to build non-residential development should be tied to:

D) A proportional amount of residential construction, within Stanford's boundary, tied to the rate of non-
residential construction. Housing that will be available to all Stanford employees, not just faculty and senior
administration. Including below market and low income housing.
                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:30 PM

E) A significant area of the Stanford Research Park reassigned for dense housing. With a timeline for building
said housing tied to the rate of Stanford's expansion.

Finally, as part of the required mitigation for the impact that will result from significant construction, Stanford
should be:

F) Required to permanently set aside the "Dish" as open space.

G) Required to permanently set aside the pasture land that is visible to the south of Page Mill Road, between
Highway 280 and Foothill Expressway, as a buffer for the footpath that was built as mitigation for the last
GUP.

Thank you for your consideration in this matter,

Yours faithfully,

Margaret Heath
2140 Cornell Street
Palo Alto, CA 94306




                                                          2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:37 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                            ksabes@aol.com
Sent:                            Sunday, January 21, 2018 3:39 PM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         Stanford Development


I am totally opposed to the development at Stanford. We already can't handle the traffic. How can you consider adding
more and more cars, buildings, and other forms of transportation and housing in our wonderful city. This would be the
final straw that breaks the camels back!!!!!

Kay Sabin
1990 Webster St.




                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:38 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Margaret Feuer <portulaca24@gmail.com>
Sent:                         Sunday, January 21, 2018 4:29 PM
To:                           Council, City
Subject:                      Stanford Expansion



Dear Mayor Kniss and Members of the City Council,

I live on University Avenue between Chaucer and Lincoln and can
assure you that Stanford’s policy of “no new net trips” is not working.
Adding 2.275 million square feet of academic and academic support
space and 3,150 new beds/units will further exacerbate the currently
intolerable traffic on University Avenue and the surrounding streets
of Crescent Park.

The afternoon commute period begins at 2:30pm and ends at 7 or 7:30.
During this time, it is virtually impossible to exit or enter my driveway.
It takes 15 to 20 minutes to go 1/4 of a mile from my house to 101. To
go from Middlefield Road to 101 takes ½ hour to 45 minutes.

Stanford should be obliged to count the “cut‐off” traffic in its totals.
Commuters using Hamilton, Center, Lincoln, Crescent and Southwood
use Waze and Google maps to circumvent University Avenue.

It is the responsibility of the City Council to represent andprotect its citizens.
Telling Stanford that their DEIR is flawed is easy; telling Stanford that they
needto lessen their square footage will be harder but its necessary.

Sincerely,
Margaret R. Feuer
1310 University Avenue




                                                     1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:40 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Jason Matlof <jmatlof@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Monday, January 22, 2018 1:17 PM
To:                             cindy.chavez@bos.sccgov.org; mike.wasserman@bos.sccgov.org;
                                supervisor.simitian@bos.sccgov.org; supervisor.cortese@bos.sccgov.org;
                                supervisor.yeager@bos.sccgov.org; david.rader@pln.sccgov.org; Council, City; Planning
                                Commission
Cc:                             Jason's Gmail
Subject:                        Fwd: Opposition to the Stanford 2018 GUP from Palo Alto Resident


Dear County Supervisors and Staff,

As a 22-year tax-paying Santa Clara County and City of Palo Alto resident (as well as lifelong Northern
Californian), I'm deeply disturbed by the implications of the Stanford 2018 GUP proposal.

While the community recognizes the University's great intellectual and cultural contribution to the broader S.F.
Bay Area community, our small city (Palo Alto) can not be expected to endure the impact and costs of the
dramatic infrastructure requirements that would be required to sustain the proposed growth at acceptable traffic,
environment and safety levels. Stanford must pay for the requisite infrastructure improvements prior to the
approval of the 2018 GUP. The institution is growing well beyond our means. I urge you to stop all further
development by Stanford until infrastructure and impact analysis is completed and requirements are placed
upon Stanford to fund the necessary infrastructure improvements that would make their GUP proposals truly
"no net impact" to our community.

Specifically, I find the following concerns with the 2018 GUP:

       Stanford's proposal should not be considered in isolation of the significant existing transportation and
        traffic congestion problems that the City of Palo Alto is already experiencing given the large
        imbalance between local jobs vs. locally employed residents. This ratio is one of the highest in the
        country, and contributes to an already existing traffic dilemma in our small residential community.
       University growth should not be considered in isolation given that it is tied to the Stanford
        University Medical Center (SUMC), the Stanford Research Park (SRP), Stanford Shopping Mall, SLAC,
        including the development proposed for 500 El Camino Real in Menlo Park (429,000 SF of office, retail
        and housing). Looking at each site in isolation does not provide a full picture of the cumulative impacts
        to Palo Alto.
       The GUP claim of "No Net New Commuter Trips" is naive given the millions of square feet of
        development proposed. [Many reports detail the naive and poorly formed aspects of these claims.]
       The GUP claims that Caltrain usage will offset growth in daily employee road commuting are naive
        given that Caltrain is already at full capacity and can only practically address a fraction of total
        employee commuters.
       The GUP totally disregards the looming and alarming transportation and traffic congestion problems
        that will be created by imminent Caltrain electrification, increased traffic stops, and the likelihood of
        grade separation construction at various intersections, which will only add to the City's financial and
        traffic burdens.
       The GUP is absent any rigorous traffic impact analysis along the impacted main and secondary impacted
        corridors already strained by Stanford-bound traffic, including Embarcadero and University, as well as
        Churchill and Kellogg avenues.
                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:40 PM
We need to stop giving Stanford carte blanche rights to development in our community without making them
carry the fair share of the financial burden needed to fund Palo Alto's transportation infrastructure that their
growth requires. I propose that the County require Stanford to fund the following specific projects to offset their
impact prior to the approval of the Stanford 2018 GUP:

    1. Stanford should be required to work with the City on mutually agreeable traffic mitigation solutions.
    2. Stanford should be required to fund Caltrain grade separation projects at the Churchill and Embarcadero
       intersections with Alma given that they're already at capacity and will become unmanageable with the
       proposed Stanford expansions.
    3. Stanford should be required to fund the construction of pedestrian underpasses at Embarcadero Rd and
       Palo Alto H.S. given the already precarious danger facing students by Stanford-bound traffic, as well as
       the traffic congestion caused by the existing light.
    4. Stanford should be required to fund the expansion from 3-lanes to 4-lanes on the 300 yard stretch of the
       Embarcadero Road underpass, which already causes gridlock at rush hour and will only be further
       exacerbated with more traffic flowing inbound/outbound of Stanford.
    5. Stanford should be required to pay for the addition of left-turn traffic signals at the intersection of the
       Embarcadero Road Underpass and Alma road to facilitate the safe onramp/offramp of inbound/outbound
       traffic to Stanford along the Alma corridor.

Please hold Stanford accountable for these significant infrastructure investments prior to any approval
consideration for the 2018 GUP. The City and County can not endure the proposed growth without holding firm
to that requirement.

Regards

Jason Matlof
118 Churchill Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94301




                                                         2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:40 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Patricia Jones <pkjones1000@icloud.com>
Sent:                            Monday, January 22, 2018 12:09 PM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         Stanford's GUP



In our opinion, it would be irresponsible to allow Stanford to implement its huge expansion without requiring it
to participate SIGNIFICANTLY in mitigating the traffic impacts it will surely have on Palo Alto. Their plan
concedes that Crescent Park will be impacted by additional traffic. However, Crescent Park is already
inundated with traffic, and current levels are already unacceptable. We know, because that’s where we live and
what we experience on a daily basis.

Public safety is a major issue here, because emergency vehicles and other kinds of help will be unable to reach
citizens in need during periods of total gridlock.

PLEASE DO NOT let Stanford off the hook in addressing the traffic issues that their planned expansion will
create.

Thank you.

Patricia Jones and Larry Jones
1407 Hamilton Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94301




Patricia Jones
www.pkjones.com
pkjones1000@icloud.com




                                                        3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:40 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Paul B Goldstein <marmot@stanford.edu>
Sent:                            Monday, January 22, 2018 11:00 AM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         Stanford University GUP



Honorable Council Members,

I support the comments in draft letter enclosed in your packet. I am particularly concerned with the following:

1) The increased traffic generated by the proposed build out. The “no net increase” concept needs to be applied
to a larger window than the current methodology. The peak commute hour is lengthening. Traffic increase all
day long is a problem that must be mitigated.

2) Open space protections need to be extended to the full period of the GUP.

3) The secondary effects of the Stanford build out need to be evaluated. Increased activity on campus will
generate a host of businesses and services off-campus.

In addition, it is only fair that Stanford pay for its impacts to our community infrastructure and services, given
that it is exempt from local taxes.

Sincerely,
Paul Goldstein
Emerson Street
Palo Alto




                                                         4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:44 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Susie Richardson <susiebmc@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Monday, January 22, 2018 1:42 PM
To:                              Council, City
Cc:                              Kniss, Liz (external); Supervisor Joe Simitian; Holman, Karen (external); Greg Scharff;
                                 Adrian Fine
Subject:                         Stanford General Plan



Dear Mayor, Vice Mayor and Council Members,

I want to encourage you to speak out on strictly limiting any new development at Stanford to housing. We
all agree that we have much too much traffic and much too little housing. We talk about limiting commercial
development within the City limits (an appropriate conversation) and search for ways to build more housing,
but I think that we need to do more to quantify Stanford’s roll in the problems and to address them.

I suspect that the back up on University Avenue and Oregon Expressway/Page Mill Road and Embarcadero are
primarily a result of Stanford employees. I suspect the recent increase is attributable to the build out underway
including the opening of the new Children’s Hospital.

I think that Stanford has used new housing as a trading chip. Stanford needs housing in order to accommodate
their faculty and students. This need is not dependent on more academic development. They need to be forced
to acknowledge their self-interest in providing housing and encouraged to provide it.

Stanford is a world class institution of which we are all rightly proud, but and they have many ways to “grow”
through redesign without expanding their physical footprint. We are all being choked by traffic now. I shutter to
think what more jobs at Stanford will do to the current situation.

I suggest a moratorium on expanding Stanford’s footprint (with the exception of new housing) until it can be
proven that Stanford has been effective at substantially reducing car trips. That will both preserve what is left of
our quality of like and encourage real innovation in traffic management.

And please remember that we will all be greatly impacted by Stanford’s planned development in Menlo Park. I
anticipate a true traffic nightmare is on the way.

Respectfully,
Susie Richardson
1322 Martin Ave
Palo Alto 94301




                                                           1
•
CITY OF
PALO
ALTO
                                            CITY OF PALO ALTO
                                             MEMORANDUM
                                                                                     Item #14
                                                                              COUNCIL MEETING
                                                                                l/z:Z./Zdl 6
                                                                              18JReceived Before Meeting
TO:                   HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL                                  OReceived at Meetin


FROM:                 CITY MANAGER                             DEPARTMENT:         UTILITIES

AGENDA DATE:          January 22, 2018                         ID#:                8517

SUBJECT:              AGENDA ITEM NUMBER 14 - Upgrade Downtown

Staff found an error in the funding allocation table shown on page 9 of the City Council Staff Report for the
Upgrade Downtown project. The error is with the funding allocations for PL-15004 (parking wayfinding) and
PL-16001 (Downtown mobility & safety improvements). A portion of the available budget in parking
wayfinding will be used for the Downtown mobility & safety improvement work. Shown below is the table
currently included in the report and the updated table with the corrected funding allocations. This correction
does not change the total contract amount.

Current Table:
The funding allocation is as follows:
         Funding Source          Contract            Contingency          Total Encumbrance
           GS-12001            $8,302,197            $830,220             $9,132,417
           F0-10001            $1,945,822            $194,582             $2,140,404
           PL-15004            $414,400              $41,440              $455,840
           PL-16001            $2,035,900            $203,590             $2,239,490
           P0-89003            $462,895              $46,290              $509,185
           WS-12001            $3,210,372            $321,037             $3,531,409
           Total               $16,371,586           $1,637,159           $18,008,745

At-Place Table:
The funding allocation is as follows:
         Funding Source          Contract            Contingency          Total Encumbrance
      i    GS-12001             $8,302,197           $830,220             $9,132,417
           F0-10001             $1,945,822           $194,582             $2,140,404
      I    PL-15004             $818,182             $81,818              $900,000
           PL-16001             $1,632,118           $163,212             $1,795,330
           P0-89003             $462,895             $46,290              $509,185
           WS-12001             $3,210,372           $321,037             $3,531,409
           Total                $16,371,586          $1,637,159           $18,008,745




Ed Shikada
General Manager of Utilities
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:33 PM                              COUNCIL MEETING
                                                                                                  01/22/2018              14
                                                                                          ✔
                                                                                              Received Before Meeting
Carnahan, David

From:                                Jeff Hoel <jeff_hoel@yahoo.com>
Sent:                                Saturday, January 20, 2018 5:57 PM
To:                                  Council, City
Cc:                                  Hoel, Jeff (external); UAC; CAC-TACC; ConnectedCity
Subject:                             Comments re Q&A for Upgrade Downtown Project


Council members,

At your 01-22-18 meeting, you will consider Item 14, which is about the Upgrade Downtown Project.

Agenda:
https://cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/62863
Staff report:
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/62851
Q&A:
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/62960

Please see (below the "###" line) my comments about the Q&A (paragraphs beginning with "###").

I'd like to thank the Council member(s) who submitted the questions.

Thanks.


Jeff

-------------------
Jeff Hoel
731 Colorado Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94303
-------------------

###########################################################################

### Comments about the Q&A:

https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/62960

Item 14 – Upgrade to Downtown Project

Q. 1. What basis was used to allocate the costs among the Enterprise funds?

A. 1. Each utility will pay for the work directly associated with the installation as described in the bid items. The joint trench
work of $5.7M will be split among the 3 utilities being installed in the trench (water main, gas main, and two fiber
conduits).

### Staff's answer didn't describe the algorithm for deciding how much of the joint trench work cost would be assigned to
each participant. See question Q3.

### Since the project incorporates work on traffic signals, shouldn't the entity responsible for traffic signals participate in
the shared costs? Ditto for wayfinding.

### Do I understand correctly that no electric utility work will be done? (Item #117 is zero.)


                                                                1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:33 PM

Q. 2. Page 3 refers to "dig once" policy ‐ have we adopted an updated dig once policy?

A. 2. Staff developed this project based on a “dig once” policy, though the policy has not yet been officially adopted. Staff
is developing this along with other ordinances, such as String Once, Multi‐unit Housing, and Micro‐trenching, to reduce
construction costs and minimize disruption in the public‐right‐of‐way. Staff plans to bring all the ordinances to Council at
one time as a comprehensive package for approval. Since University Avenue is the main artery for downtown, it makes
sense to install everything at the same time to avoid future excavation/disruption and only pay indirect and overhead costs
once.

Q. 3. As the staff report states, the point of a dig once policy is to "reduce underground construction costs..." . As such
the, laying fiber should be viewed as incremental work and not be assigned any of the cost of the digging.

### I am sympathetic to this point of view. But staff's answer A1 indicates that the fiber utility is expected to share in the
digging costs. What does Council think?

Can you break down the $2.1M expense for fiber on this project? What would be the cost if fiber conduit was laid
separately at a future date? How much is the dig once policy saving us on costs?

A. 3. Water, gas, and two fiber conduits are going to be installed in the joint trench. Bid item #1 includes the labor,
equipment, material costs to excavate and shore the trench, install pipes, backfill/restore the trench, as well as all indirect
and overhead costs such as mobilization/demobilization, traffic control, and construction management by the contractor.

### Could the costs within bid item #1 be split out as follows:
* costs associated with digging the trench, filling the trench, etc.
* costs associated with installing pipes once the trench is dug
  -- water pipe materials
  -- gas pipe materials
  -- fiber conduit materials
  -- water pipe labor
  -- gas pipe labor
  -- fiber conduit labor
  -- water pipe equipment
  -- gas pipe equipment
  -- fiber conduit equipment

The estimated cost to install fibers separately on University Avenue at a future date has not been estimated at this point.

### I think staff meant the cost to install conduit for fiber at a future date.

Such a project would necessarily carry all the indirect and overhead costs by itself, but may be located along a different
alignment within this crowded (with infrastructure) street. As designed, fiber installation requires a deeper trench, with
associated shoring and other constructability costs. Nonetheless, the dig once policy saves the City from paying the
indirect and overhead costs twice and minimizes impact on residents, businesses, and transportation in downtown.

### Incidentally, it's legitimate to ask, once the conduit for fiber is installed, how much it would cost to install fiber in the
conduit. (And presumably that wouldn't involve any digging cost, right?)

Q. 4. In the detailed bid the fiber related costs appear to be only about $35,000 dollars ‐ $15K to install 2 PVC conduits,
$13K to to [sic] install another 4 PVC conduits, and$6K to install a fiber optic pull boxes. Is that correct? Where is the rest
of the fiber
expense coming from?

A. 4.These bid items are the pull boxes and fiber conduits directly allocated to the fiber installation and are in addition to
the fiber utility’s share of the joint trench cost. The primary fiber expense is listed under Bid Item #1 – joint trench and
installation of water pipe, gas pipe, and fiber conduit. Bid item #1 includes the labor, equipment, material costs to
excavate and shore the trench, install pipes, backfill/restore the trench, as well as all indirect and overhead costs such as
mobilization/demobilization, traffic control, and construction management by the contractor.

Q. 5. Is more fiber capacity needed at this location?
                                                                 2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:33 PM

### I'd ask the question in a different way. What would (or might) these conduits be used for in the future? If the answer
were FTTP, then where are the vaults? If the answer were to increase capacity on the dark fiber network, then why is this
location better than the dark fiber network's existing locations? (See the January 2013 dark fiber map on page 45.)
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/42930
Recall that staff has never had to document what it's doing to refurbish the dark fiber network.

A.5. At this time, there are no immediate or forecasted needs for the City. This was included to provide flexibility for future
uses and advance prior council direction to include fiber capacity in conjunction with main replacement projects.

### Now that Council realizes that this kind of "flexibility" might cost $4 million per mile, would Council be willing to
consider designing citywide FTTP, so that it can be implemented without the need for so much "flexibility"?

Q. 6. The staff report on page 4 says "for this specific location, however, the incremental cost to include fiber optic
conduits may be marginal....:" If council decides not to include fiber at this time, how will the $2.1M in cost be allocated to
other enterprise funds?

A.6. It is worth noting that the sentence concludes, “…marginal in comparison to anticipated benefits.”

### However, apparently none of the anticipated benefits are immediate or forecasted needs for the City.

Since the fiber is an integral part of the negotiated contract package, if council prefers not to include fiber, staff would not
recommend awarding the contract. The project will require repackaging and rebidding, to return to council at a future date.
This may encounter the same problem with few or no bidders (high market demand and downtown restrictions) and the
bid prices for other programs (general fund as well as utilities) will be allocated overhead and indirect costs.

Q. 7. East Palo Alto is in the process of a fiber installation to its public buildings. I know some of the ongoing operational
costs maybe subsidized but I believe the actual construction and installation costs are estimated to be much lower, under
$200,000 for more than 8000 ft distance. How are they able to do it so cost effectively?

A. 7. It is difficult to make a comparison of costs since we do not know where East Palo Alto’s conduits are to be installed
or what construction method will be used. The installation on University Avenue is very expensive due to the congestion of
underground utilities in the street (directional drilling method is not feasible because of the potential impact to existing
underground utilities), restricted construction timeframes, extensive outreach and traffic management requirements. The
high cost of water main installation on California Avenue in the Cal Ave Business District around 4 years ago also
indicates that it’s typically more costly to install utilities in downtown or business districts.




                                                               3
                                                                         COUNCIL MEETING
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:18 PM
                                                                                 01/22/2018            15
                                                                         ✔
                                                                             Received Before Meeting
Carnahan, David

From:                         Jeralyn Moran <jeralyn.moran@gmail.com>
Sent:                         Thursday, January 18, 2018 5:04 PM
To:                           Council, City
Subject:                      Please re-consider the 2 parking garages



Dear Mayor Kniss and City Council members,



In the spirit of moving Palo Alto forward toward its important goal of getting our GHG
emissions down by 80% by the year 2030, I add my name to the long list of residents
who are troubled by the currently questionable justification for two new parking garages
in the City’s infrastructure plans. Times are changing quickly, and I encourage you, as a
Council, to re-visit these previously agreed-upon projects accordingly.



  In terms of Community health into the future, accommodating even more cars takes us
backward - away from our Climate Change & traffic mitigation commitments. Financially,
the large expense to build these garages is very hard to fit into the City’s budget without
losses elsewhere. They will become obsolete long before their physical life span, as
more people push for a carbon-free future.



The Palo Alto Weekly is highlighting 2018 as our City’s year of housing – please consider
the alternative of investing in the design/construction of housing on these two sites.
Desperately needed housing to help reduce car commutes into Palo Alto by workers
forced to do so. Future residents & leaders will thank you.




Sincerely,



Jeralyn Moran




--
                                                     1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:18 PM

jeralyn.moran@gmail.com

..... the Time for Climate Action Is Now.




                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:18 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           David Coale <david@evcl.com>
Sent:                           Friday, January 19, 2018 7:30 AM
To:                             Council, City; Keene, James; Friend, Gil
Cc:                             Hodge, Bruce; Bret Andersen; Sandra Slater; lvandusen@mac.com; James Tuleya;
                                Jeralyn Moran; Jennifer Thompson; Stew Plock; Sven Thesen; Steve Schmidt; Debbie
                                Mytels; Robert Neff; Robinson, William; Robyn Duby; Serene Ang; David Alan Foster;
                                Lynnie Melena; Nordman, Eric; Amie Ashton; John Woodfill; Rothstein, Jane
Subject:                        Parking garages



Dear Mayor and City Council,

As you are reviewing capital projects for this coming year, there is one project that needs serious re-
consideration and that is the parking garages for the downtown and Cal Ave areas. These projects are in direct
conflict with the Sustainability Implementation Plan (SIP) and also are not sustainable from a fiscal point of
view. We just don’t have the money to pay for these and the problems they will incur. What’s more, we really
don’t need them as other solutions are much less expensive and are working.

Environmental/Sustainability/Climate Change issues

The city did a study of the parking downtown. Staff worked with a parking consultant and got a parking
solution. At no time were the garages viewed through the greater lens of sustainability.

While the SIP did try to address the parking garages in the FAQ part of the report (Appendix D, copied below),
this was by no means a comprehensive analysis of the impacts of the parking garages on our goal of 80% GHG
reductions by 2030. In fact the first part of the FAQ answer to why are we building parking garages are all the
reasons why we should not build them; they are in direct conflict and moving us in the opposite direction of the
main parts of the SIP. We should not be encouraging more cars, traffic and the GHG produced by the
construction of garages and the induced increase in auto use with these projects.

For each pound of concrete used in the parking garages, a pound of CO2 is produced and for each pound of
steel, 4 to 7 pounds of CO2 are produced (depending on the source1), so building the garages will have a large
GHG footprint.

The even larger environmental impact is the increased traffic, congestion and other impacts that will happen
with these projects. With 338 parking spaces for the downtown garage, if we assume the parking garage is 80%
full, and that each space turns over 4 times in a day we get 1082 car trips. If each car drives 6 miles to get
downtown (this is conservative as most of the traffic in Palo Alto is from outside of Palo Alto) we get 6490
miles each day or about 5,200 pound of CO2 per day or 2.6 tons/day. This conservative estimate does not
include the GHG of the added congestion caused by this additional traffic. So each year this amounts to about
650 tons of CO2 from cars.

The largest part of the SIP is the reduction of auto use in Palo Alto. The garages are in direct conflict with
this. How can we accept awards for our work on addressing climate change from the League of Cities and then
turn around and build two huge parking garages? The parking garages need to be revisited with a greater eye on
sustainability.

                                                         3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:18 PM
Water is also an area that is addressed in the SIP. With the proposed project downtown, there will parking
below ground. A huge dewatering effort may be required to realize this project. I don’t think this has been
adequately addressed and certainly not with respect to the SIP or the recent dewatering ordinance which
everyone agrees needs to be strengthened to be really protective of our ground water.

Fiscally not viable.

The projected cost of these projects is $68.5 million. Where is this coming from? As of yet, we don’t
know. We also know that the price of any project will be more then projected. This has never come out any
other way.

The more fiscally responsible approach would be to see how the lower cost fixes to our parking problems are
working before building the most expensive, most environmentally damaging solutions possible.

From the latest Transportation Management Association (TMA) survey2 we see that Signal Occupancy Vehicle
(SOV) trips have been reduced with their efforts. This is great news! The TMA efforts are working even
though the TMA is under funded.

The Residential Parking Permit program is also helping to ease the parking issues downtown and this continues
to be refined. Parking pricing will also help to reduce SOV and create revenue for the city.

As use of various ridesharing services increases, the need for parking will be reduced. And with the advent of
self-driving cars, this will further reduce the need for parking.

The continued build-out of the Bike-Ped network will also help to reduce the parking need for downtown and
Cal Ave along with other transit improvements such as the electrification of CalTrain and other transit options
such as the bike sharing program.

Right now we are at the peak of our parking need and due to that, with all the possible solutions coming into
play, we just need some time to let these efforts play out and work.

Building parking garages now where they would only be obsolete in a few years just does not make good sense,
environmentally or fiscally. Besides with all the money we are saving, we could fully fund the TMA, the Bike-
Ped plans, the SIP and more and still have money left over to address other shortfalls the city is facing.

Conclusion

Anytime the council spends money you have an opportunity to vote for or against sustainability, and anytime a
project of this size is being considered, it is even more imperative to look at the project through the greater lens
of sustainability. In this case, there is a win-win solution by letting the less expensive solutions work before
committing to a very expensive solution that will likely be obsolete in 5 to 10 years and have a large
environmental impact. Use the money saved from delaying this project to fund the other solutions that will
decrease the need for parking and get us closer to the goal of 80% GHG reductions by 2030. If you should
decide to proceed with building the garages, a much larger, comprehensive study should be done that looks at
all the impacts on the environment, the SIP and the budget. This study should also include the possibility of
building affordable housing at these garage sites instead and the funding to expand the successful TMA effort to
the California Ave area.

Thanks for your consideration,

                                                         4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:18 PM
Sincerely,

David Coale     \

Bruce Hodge         |

Bret Andersen | Carbon Free Palo Alto

Sandra Slater       |

Lisa Van Dusen /

James Tuleya, Carbon Free Silicon Valley

Green Sanctuary Committee, Unitarian Universalist Congregation of Palo Alto

Silicon Valley Climate Action Alliance

Jennifer Thompson, Executive Director Sustainable Silicon Valley

Stew Plock, board member 350 Silicon Valley

Sven Thesen, Project Green Home

Steve Schmidt, ex Mayor of Menlo Park

Debbie Mytels

Robert Neff

William M Robinson

Robyn Duby

Serene Ang

David Alan Foster

Lynnie Melena

Eric Nordman

Amie Ashton

John Woodfill

Jane Rosten



                                                     5
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:18 PM
From Appendix D, SIP FAQs

Why is the City of Palo Alto building more parking garages? Won't that encourage people to drive instead
of using other means to get downtown?

The City Manager and staff (as well as the 1998 Comp Plan and the ongoing update) envision a future in which
the use of single occupant vehicles will decline, reducing the need for parking. We are actively nurturing this
vision with policies and actions in

Downtown and elsewhere (including establishment of the TMA, introduction of parking pricing, more effective
management of the parking we already have, and development of Mobility As A Service solutions through our
Federal Transit Administration grant and other programs). This future will also be advanced by changes in the
marketplace, such as the expansion of ridesharing companies and the development and deployment of
autonomous vehicles.

Meanwhile, we need to address today’s challenges, including current parking demand, without precluding or
discouraging future progress, and without wasting resources. We’ll also need to anticipate how current
parking lots could be redeveloped with other uses as parking demand declines in the future.



1 Amounts of CO2 Released when Making & Using Products http://www.co2list.org/files/carbon.htm

2 TMA Commute Survey Results

www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/56092

rafic




                                                       6
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:19 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Rosenblums(pol1) <pol1@rosenblums.us>
Sent:                            Friday, January 19, 2018 12:57 PM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         Agenda item 15, Meeting of January 22nd



In all its future plans, the City Council has committed to reducing single vehicle miles travelled in Palo Alto. I
find the idea of constructing 2 new parking garages , one in the downtown and one in the California Avenue
neighborhood to be in direct contradiction to that aim. Why waste almost $70 million on two structures
whose purpose we are trying to work against? The money could be better spent on Mobility as a Service in
Palo Alto. This would eliminate the need for many parking spaces as well as fighting climate change .
Stephen Rosenblum




                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:19 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Diane Bailey <diane@menlospark.org>
Sent:                              Friday, January 19, 2018 1:14 PM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           Please Reconsider the Need for New Parking Garages - those funds could cover
                                   parking in a smarter way with plenty leftover
Attachments:                       C421302D-8C87-4C6E-9C4A-456168B4C399.png


Dear City Council Members,
I’m writing on behalf of Menlo Spark, a neighboring environmental group working towards a zero carbon, sustainable city, to
urge you to reconsider spending valuable city funds on a parking garage. For all the reasons stated in the December 11th,
2017 comments below, and described in detail by David Coale of Carbon Free Palo Alto, I urge you to consider a smarter
approach to managing parking. Instead of building a new garage, the city could institute dynamic managed parking, which will
make parking more convenient and free up city revenue for other more necessary projects (affordable housing, public transit,
beautiful streetscapes & parks, climate actions such as natural gas replacement, etc.).

Thanks very much for considering these comments and for the important service that you provide leading the City of Palo
Alto.
Sincerely,
Diane Bailey, Executive Director
Menlo Spark

From: Diane Bailey <diane@menlospark.org>
Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 at 4:58 PM
To: "city.council@cityofpaloalto.org" <city.council@cityofpaloalto.org>
Subject: Support SIP Moving Ahead & Please Reconsider the Need for New Parking Garages

Dear City Council Members,
I’m writing on behalf of Menlo Spark, working in neighboring Menlo Park, towards a zero carbon city. We support the
updated Sustainability Implementation Plan and welcome the City’s efforts to move forward on its ambitious “80 by 30”
greenhouse gas reduction goal. The key measures highlighted in the SIP are smart strategies to advance carbon reductions in
the most meaningful way.

One separate but related policy that we are concerned about is the proposal to build additional parking garages. We
appreciate that current parking needs are a significant issue but recommend alternative approaches to meeting these needs
without locking in car‐centric and expensive infrastructure that runs counter to a key SIP measure: Parking management
strategies to support transportation and sustainability goals.

Please find our sustainability guide for city mobility planning attached (see p. 4-6 for dynamic parking). We recommend a
parking program that includes dynamic pricing similar to that employed successfully by the City of Santa Monica. Other
nearby cities, such as Redwood City, are moving towards this model more slowly with higher parking prices a the center
of the city, decreasing with distance from the core pedestrian and shopping zones. We recommend an emphasis on
managing existing parking to maximize convenience, while parking revenues could be channeled into programs that
support alternatives to driving, such as subsidized transit passes. Avoided costs of new parking garage infrastructure
could also be used to support important mobility and housing programs.

Residents and downtown visitors are likely to appreciate an ap-based parking system that allows easy location of
available parking spots and payment. This can be implemented more quickly and at a lower cost than constructing new
garages. It also supports a lively, walkable, and sustainable city.

Thank you for considering these comments.
                                                             1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:19 PM
Sincerely,
Diane Bailey




Diane Bailey | Executive Director

MENLO SPARK

diane@menlospark.org | 650‐281‐7073

Visit us: www.MenloSpark.org

Find us on Facebook

Follow us on Twitter




Climate Neutral for a Healthy, Prosperous Menlo Park


EV, PV & Fossil Free: Guides for Electric Cars, solar & Fossil Free Homes at: http://menlospark.org/what‐we‐do/




                                                                       2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:29 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Judy Ohki <judy@lpetal.com>
Sent:                             Friday, January 19, 2018 5:01 PM
To:                               Council, City
Subject:                          Message from the City Council Home Page regarding Cal Ave parking


To Palo Alto City Council,

As a business owner on California Avenue in Palo Alto, we desperately need to maximize the parking spaces in the
construction of the new garages. This area continues to grow and parking will only get worse if you decide to cut back
on the spaces. As it is, employees and customers are struggling to find adequate parking. Please consider the needs of
the businesses in this area as you make your decisions.

Best regards,

Judy Ohki
Leaf & Petal




                                                           1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:29 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                             jack <jack@mortoncpa.com>
Sent:                             Friday, January 19, 2018 6:34 PM
To:                               Council, City
Subject:                          11th hour Staff Betrayal of the Cal Ave Community
Attachments:                      CAL AVE PARKING STRUCTURE PROTEST.pdf


CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS: As the attached letter from Cal Ave businesses outlines, the community has once again been
sabotaged by City staff.
This time staff is attempting to have Council remove 100 parking spaces from the yet‐to‐be built garage that Council only
approved last spring.
Former Vice Mayor, JACK MORTON




                                                            1
January 18, 2018

Mayor Kniss, Vice Mayor Filseth and Council Members,
The members of the California Avenue Area Business Association (CAABA) listed
below have reviewed the staff report before you on Monday, January 22, 2018 that
proposes a reduction in the size of the new California Avenue garage. The proposed
reduction to only one sub-level rather than two is ill-advised and we ask that the Council
approve the original proposal that includes two sub-levels .

We understand the reduction is proposed as a cost-saving measure to help meet other
City infrastructure and transportation needs. We believe this is a short-sighted mistake
and strongly encourage the Council to approve the original design with two sub-levels
fo r the following reasons:

•   City representatives, from mayors to City staff, have been discussing a new garage
    with the Cal Ave business community for nearly 15 years . Over that entire time , the
    stated intention of the City was to build as large a garage as possible to
    accommodate the increased needs of the area .
•   It has been an ongoing discussion among both City and Cal Ave area businesses
    that the area should become a more vibrant commercial district serving more retail
    and residential needs. Based on that goal, the City encouraged area development,
    made multiple new enhancements to the avenue and approved multiple new
    developments with added customers and local workers that have brought increased
    business to the area , and, with it, increased need for parking (e .g. Visa's new office
    building , 3 active developments on Park Boulevard, new buildings proposed for
    Cambridge and Sherman Avenues, and several new restaurants). Older businesses
    expanded or upgraded, and new businesses located in the area based on the
    improved business climate for the district and in reliance on the understanding that
    parking deficits created by this intensification would be addressed with the largest
     new parking garage possible.
•    If there is a financial shortfall for the infrastructure needs of the City, we ask the
     Council to find other projects that may be deferred and authorize the original
     capacity Cal Ave garage which the City Council approved last Spring . For example,
    the $6 .?M upgrade of Fire Station #3 could be deferred without violating any
     deadline and would pay for the second level, or portions of the bike/pedestrian plan
     could be delayed for a period of time without any significant cost impact.

This 11th-hour change caught area businesses by surprise with almost no time for
review and response. The garage design and capacity have been reviewed several
times with area businesses and residents and the proposal with two sub-levels was
approved by the City Council last Spring The proposal to significantly reduce the
capacity of the new parking facility is nothing less than a breach of faith with the
business community that has worked collaboratively with the City for so many years on
th is project.
This is the last possible garage development for the California Avenue commercial
district. No other garage is planned or, even if envisioned, would be unlikely for the next
several decades. This is an opportunity that should not be short-changed or diminished
when there are viable options to build the garage the area needs and still meet other
infrastructure needs of the City. This priority has not changed and in fact th~ need has
intensified over the 15 years of review and discussion .

If the Council cannot approve the garage with two sub-levels, the matter should be put
over for a review of City infrastructure priorities , with time for the area businesses to
work with staff on an acceptable garage proposal.

Respectfully,


Jessica Roth: The Cobblery

Peter Katz: Managing Partner, Counter Intelligence LLC , The Counter

Robert Martinez: Palo Alto Eyeworks

Maxime Roucoule: Pastis

John Garcia: Mollie Stone's Market

Israel Rind: Izzy's Bagels

Abraham Khalil : Med Wraps

Terr-Y Shuchat: California Avenue Property Owner (Keeble & Shuchat Photography)

Jack Morton: President, CAABA

Mora Oommen: Blossom Birth

Mike Meffert: Meffert Investment, LLC and California Avenue Property Owner

Philippe Lehot: Villerousse Properties , LLC

Malek Kaci : La Boheme

Galen Fletcher: Sundance The Steakhouse

Lynn and Bob Davidson : California Avenue Property Owners

Hai To: Campus Barbershop

 Elena Silverman : Country Sun Natural Foods

 Jennifer Allen and Mike Maystead : PIP Printing

 Don Lundell and Gillian Robinson: Zombie Runner
Lara and Michael Ekwall : La Bodeguita del Media

Dino Tekdemir: Anatolian Kitchen

Franco Campilongo: Terun & ltalico

Margot Goldberg: Palo Alto Central

Peter Brewer: Law Offices of Peter Brewer N. Brewer

Zareen Khan : Zareen 's Restaurant

Aaron Ryan: Amity Cross Fit

Lori Villareal: True Salon & Calave Wine Bar

Jeff Davidson: California Paint

Chris Gaines: Performance Gaines

A nthony Secviar: Protege

Al Ghafouri : Printers Cafe

Rory Shannon: Summit Bicycles

Kyle Talbott: Grey Matters

A nn Vuong: La Jolie Nail Spa



~~
California Avenue Area Business Association
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:32 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                                Eric Rosenblum <mitericr@gmail.com>
Sent:                                Saturday, January 20, 2018 5:04 PM
To:                                  Council, City
Cc:                                  board@paloaltoforward.com
Subject:                             Palo Alto Forward: Considerations before approving downtown garage
Attachments:                         PAF letter on downtown garages 2017.1.19.pdf


Dear Mayor and City Council

On behalf of Palo Alto Forward, I would like to express our general agreement with the attached letter from Carbon Free Palo
Alto et al (expressing reservations concerning the proposed downtown parking garage). I have also attached the below as a .pdf
file in case there are email formatting issues.

In addition to that letter’s concern about the sustainability and environmental issues that argue against another garage, we
would like to raise several practical considerations:

    1.   We should use our existing parking capacity more effectively: the PTC has started the process of discussing paid
         parking (potentially with dynamic pricing) for our downtown areas, This has been successfully used in neighboring
         communities to effectively manage capacity utilization. In addition, even without paid parking, the city has presented
         evidence that our garages are not currently filled to capacity (and that better way finding could help guide people to the
         right garages). In short, there are several critical steps-- including implementation of paid parking, enforcement,
         and better way finding-- that should be rolled out before embarking on an expensive and permanent
         infrastructure project like a garage.
    2.   Financial considerations: Since the adoption of the city infrastructure plan, costs have risen substantially as noted in
         the staff report. Currently the approved projects face a funding shortfall of over $50 million. Before moving forward on
         one piece of the package (the garages), it would be prudent to consider how the funding shortfall affects project timing
         and priorities. For the parking garages it would be helpful and prudent to see how the current RPP and growing GoPass
         programs are affecting parking demand and availability since conditions may have changed since the origi9nal garages
         were suggested by the infrastructure commission and adopted by the city.

In short, we thank Carbon Free Palo Alto et al for eloquently arguing for a more environmentally friendly policy. We would
additionally like you to consider other capacity measures and financial considerations before approving the garage.

On behalf of Palo Alto Forward,


Eric Rosenblum


Below is the letter from Carbon Free Palo Alto
Dear Mayor and City Council,
As you are reviewing capital projects for this coming year, there is one project that needs serious re-consideration and that is the
parking garages for the downtown and Cal Ave areas. These projects are in direct conflict with the Sustainability
Implementation Plan (SIP) and also are not sustainable from a fiscal point of view. We just don’t have the money to pay for
these and the problems they will incur. What’s more, we really don’t need them as other solutions are much less expensive and
are working.
Environmental/Sustainability/Climate Change issues
The city did a study of the parking downtown. Staff worked with a parking consultant and got a parking solution. At no time were
the garages viewed through the greater lens of sustainability.
While the SIP did try to address the parking garages in the FAQ part of the report (Appendix D, copied below), this was by no
means a comprehensive analysis of the impacts of the parking garages on our goal of 80% GHG reductions by 2030. In fact the
first part of the FAQ answer to why are we building parking garages are all the reasons why we should not build them; they are
in direct conflict and moving us in the opposite direction of the main parts of the SIP. We should not be encouraging more cars,
traffic and the GHG produced by the construction of garages and the induced increase in auto use with these projects.

                                                                 1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:32 PM
For each pound of concrete used in the parking garages, a pound of CO2 is produced and for each pound of steel, 4 to 7
pounds of CO2 are produced (depending on the source ), so building the garages will have a large GHG footprint.
                                                         1


The even larger environmental impact is the increased traffic, congestion and other impacts that will happen with these
projects. With 338 parking spaces for the downtown garage, if we assume the parking garage is 80% full, and that each space
turns over 4 times in a day we get 1082 car trips. If each car drives 6 miles to get downtown (this is conservative as most of the
traffic in Palo Alto is from outside of Palo Alto) we get 6490 miles each day or about 5,200 pound of CO2 per day or 2.6
tons/day. This conservative estimate does not include the GHG of the added congestion caused by this additional traffic. So
each year this amounts to about 650 tons of CO2 from cars.
The largest part of the SIP is the reduction of auto use in Palo Alto. The garages are in direct conflict with this. How can we
accept awards for our work on addressing climate change from the League of Cities and then turn around and build two huge
parking garages? The parking garages need to be revisited with a greater eye on sustainability.
Water is also an area that is addressed in the SIP. With the proposed project downtown, there will parking below ground. A
huge dewatering effort may be required to realize this project. I don’t think this has been adequately addressed and certainly not
with respect to the SIP or the recent dewatering ordinance which everyone agrees needs to be strengthened to be really
protective of our ground water.
Fiscally not viable.
The projected cost of these projects is $68.5 million. Where is this coming from? As of yet, we don’t know. We also know that
the price of any project will be more then projected. This has never come out any other way.
The more fiscally responsible approach would be to see how the lower cost fixes to our parking problems are working before
building the most expensive, most environmentally damaging solutions possible.
From the latest Transportation Management Association (TMA) survey we see that Signal Occupancy Vehicle (SOV) trips have
                                                                        2


been reduced with their efforts. This is great news! The TMA efforts are working even though the TMA is under funded.
The Residential Parking Permit program is also helping to ease the parking issues downtown and this continues to be
refined. Parking pricing will also help to reduce SOV and create revenue for the city.
As use of various ridesharing services increases, the need for parking will be reduced. And with the advent of self-driving cars,
this will further reduce the need for parking.
The continued build-out of the Bike-Ped network will also help to reduce the parking need for downtown and Cal Ave along with
other transit improvements such as the electrification of CalTrain and other transit options such as the bike sharing program.
Right now we are at the peak of our parking need and due to that, with all the possible solutions coming into play, we just need
some time to let these efforts play out and work.
Building parking garages now where they would only be obsolete in a few years just does not make good sense,
environmentally or fiscally. Besides with all the money we are saving, we could fully fund the TMA, the Bike-Ped plans, the SIP
and more and still have money left over to address other shortfalls the city is facing.
Conclusion
Anytime the council spends money you have an opportunity to vote for or against sustainability, and anytime a project of this
size is being considered, it is even more imperative to look at the project through the greater lens of sustainability. In this case,
there is a win-win solution by letting the less expensive solutions work before committing to a very expensive solution that will
likely be obsolete in 5 to 10 years and have a large environmental impact. Use the money saved from delaying this project to
fund the other solutions that will decrease the need for parking and get us closer to the goal of 80% GHG reductions by 2030. If
you should decide to proceed with building the garages, a much larger, comprehensive study should be done that looks at all the
impacts on the environment, the SIP and the budget. This study should also include the possibility of building affordable
housing at these garage sites instead and the funding to expand the successful TMA effort to the California Ave area.
Thanks for your consideration,
Sincerely,
David Coale        \
Bruce Hodge          |
Bret Andersen | Carbon Free Palo Alto
Sandra Slater |
Lisa Van Dusen /
James Tuleya, Carbon Free Silicon Valley
Green Sanctuary Committee, Unitarian Universalist Congregation of Palo Alto
Silicon Valley Climate Action Alliance
Jennifer Thompson, Executive Director Sustainable Silicon Valley
Stew Plock, board member 350 Silicon Valley
Sven Thesen, Project Green Home
Steve Schmidt, ex Mayor of Menlo Park
Debbie Mytels
Robert Neff
William M Robinson
Robyn Duby
Serene Ang
David Alan Foster
Lynnie Melena
                                                                 2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:32 PM
Eric Nordman
Amie Ashton
John Woodfill
Jane Rosten
From Appendix D, SIP FAQs
Why is the City of Palo Alto building more parking garages? Won't that encourage people to drive instead of using other means to get
downtown?
The City Manager and staff (as well as the 1998 Comp Plan and the ongoing update) envision a future in which the use of single occupant
vehicles will decline, reducing the need for parking. We are actively nurturing this vision with policies and actions in
Downtown and elsewhere (including establishment of the TMA, introduction of parking pricing, more effective management of the parking
we already have, and development of Mobility As A Service solutions through our Federal Transit Administration grant and other
programs). This future will also be advanced by changes in the marketplace, such as the expansion of ridesharing companies and the
development and deployment of autonomous vehicles.
Meanwhile, we need to address today’s challenges, including current parking demand, without precluding or discouraging future progress,
and without wasting resources. We’ll also need to anticipate how current parking lots could be redeveloped with other uses as parking
demand declines in the future.
1 Amounts of CO Released when Making & Using Products http://www.co2list.org/files/carbon.htm
                  2


2 TMA Commute Survey Results
www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/56092



--
Eric Rosenblum
206 604 0443




                                                                   3
Dear Mayor and City Council

On behalf of Palo Alto Forward, I would like to express our general agreement with the attached letter from
Carbon Free Palo Alto et al(expressing reservations concerning the proposed downtown parking garage).

In addition to that letter’s concern about the sustainability and environmental issues that argue against another
garage, we would like to raise several practical considerations:

    1.   We should use our existing parking capacity more effectively:​ the PTC has started the process of
         discussing paid parking (potentially with dynamic pricing) for our downtown areas, This has been
         successfully used in neighboring communities to effectively manage capacity utilization. In addition,
         even without paid parking, the city has presented evidence that our garages are not currently filled to
         capacity (and that better way finding could help guide people to the right garages). ​In short, there are
         several critical steps-- including implementation of paid parking, enforcement, and better way
         finding-- that should be rolled out before embarking on an expensive and permanent
         infrastructure project like a garage.
    2.   Financial considerations: ​Since the adoption of the city infrastructure plan, costs have risen
         substantially as noted in the staff report. Currently the approved projects face a funding shortfall of
         over $50 million. Before moving forward on one piece of the package (the garages), it would be
         prudent to consider how the funding shortfall affects project timing and priorities. For the parking
         garages it would be helpful and prudent to see how the current RPP and growing GoPass programs
         are affecting parking demand and availability since conditions may have changed since the origi9nal
         garages were suggested by the infrastructure commission and adopted by the city.

In short, we thank Carbon Free Palo Alto et al for eloquently arguing for a more environmentally friendly policy.
We would additionally like you to consider other capacity measures and financial considerations before
approving the garage.

On behalf of Palo Alto Forward,



Eric Rosenblum



Below is the letter from Carbon Free Palo Alto
Dear Mayor and City Council,
As you are reviewing capital projects for this coming year, there is one project that needs serious
re-consideration and that is the parking garages for the downtown and Cal Ave areas. These projects are in
direct conflict with the Sustainability Implementation Plan (SIP) and also are not sustainable from a fiscal point
of view. We just don’t have the money to pay for these and the problems they will incur. What’s more, we really
don’t need them as other solutions are much less expensive and are working.
Environmental/Sustainability/Climate Change issues
The city did a study of the parking downtown. Staff worked with a parking consultant and got a parking solution.
At no time were the garages viewed through the greater lens of sustainability.
While the SIP did try to address the parking garages in the FAQ part of the report (Appendix D, copied below),
this was by no means a comprehensive analysis of the impacts of the parking garages on our goal of 80%
GHG reductions by 2030. In fact the first part of the FAQ answer to why are we building parking garages are
all the reasons why we should not build them; they are in direct conflict and moving us in the opposite direction
of the main parts of the SIP. We should not be encouraging more cars, traffic and the GHG produced by the
construction of garages and the induced increase in auto use with these projects.
For each pound of concrete used in the parking garages, a pound of CO2 is produced and for each pound of
steel, 4 to 7 pounds of CO2 are produced (depending on the source​1​), so building the garages will have a large
GHG footprint.
The even larger environmental impact is the increased traffic, congestion and other impacts that will happen
with these projects. With 338 parking spaces for the downtown garage, if we assume the parking garage is
80% full, and that each space turns over 4 times in a day we get 1082 car trips. If each car drives 6 miles to
get downtown (this is conservative as most of the traffic in Palo Alto is from outside of Palo Alto) we get 6490
miles each day or about 5,200 pound of CO2 per day or 2.6 tons/day. This conservative estimate does not
include the GHG of the added congestion caused by this additional traffic. So each year this amounts to about
650 tons of CO2 from cars.
The largest part of the SIP is the reduction of auto use in Palo Alto. The garages are in direct conflict with this.
How can we accept awards for our work on addressing climate change from the League of Cities and then turn
around and build two huge parking garages? The parking garages need to be revisited with a greater eye on
sustainability.
Water is also an area that is addressed in the SIP. With the proposed project downtown, there will parking
below ground. A huge dewatering effort may be required to realize this project. I don’t think this has been
adequately addressed and certainly not with respect to the SIP or the recent dewatering ordinance which
everyone agrees needs to be strengthened to be really protective of our ground water.
Fiscally not viable.
The projected cost of these projects is $68.5 million. Where is this coming from? As of yet, we don’t know.
We also know that the price of any project will be more then projected. This has never come out any other
way.
The more fiscally responsible approach would be to see how the lower cost fixes to our parking problems are
working before building the most expensive, most environmentally damaging solutions possible.
From the latest Transportation Management Association (TMA) survey​2​ we see that Signal Occupancy Vehicle
(SOV) trips have been reduced with their efforts. This is great news! The TMA efforts are working even though
the TMA is under funded.
The Residential Parking Permit program is also helping to ease the parking issues downtown and this
continues to be refined. Parking pricing will also help to reduce SOV and create revenue for the city.
As use of various ridesharing services increases, the need for parking will be reduced. And with the advent of
self-driving cars, this will further reduce the need for parking.
The continued build-out of the Bike-Ped network will also help to reduce the parking need for downtown and
Cal Ave along with other transit improvements such as the electrification of CalTrain and other transit options
such as the bike sharing program.
Right now we are at the peak of our parking need and due to that, with all the possible solutions coming into
play, we just need some time to let these efforts play out and work.
Building parking garages now where they would only be obsolete in a few years just does not make good
sense, environmentally or fiscally. Besides with all the money we are saving, we could fully fund the TMA, the
Bike-Ped plans, the SIP and more and still have money left over to address other shortfalls the city is facing.
Conclusion
Anytime the council spends money you have an opportunity to vote for or against sustainability, and anytime a
project of this size is being considered, it is even more imperative to look at the project through the greater lens
of sustainability. In this case, there is a win-win solution by letting the less expensive solutions work before
committing to a very expensive solution that will likely be obsolete in 5 to 10 years and have a large
environmental impact. Use the money saved from delaying this project to fund the other solutions that will
decrease the need for parking and get us closer to the goal of 80% GHG reductions by 2030. If you should
decide to proceed with building the garages, a much larger, comprehensive study should be done that looks at
all the impacts on the environment, the SIP and the budget. This study should also include the possibility of
building affordable housing at these garage sites instead and the funding to expand the successful TMA effort
to the California Ave area.
Thanks for your consideration,
Sincerely,
David Coale      \
Bruce Hodge        |
Bret Andersen | Carbon Free Palo Alto
Sandra Slater |
Lisa Van Dusen /
James Tuleya, Carbon Free Silicon Valley
Green Sanctuary Committee, Unitarian Universalist Congregation of Palo Alto
Silicon Valley Climate Action Alliance
Jennifer Thompson, Executive Director Sustainable Silicon Valley
Stew Plock, board member 350 Silicon Valley
Sven Thesen, Project Green Home
Steve Schmidt, ex Mayor of Menlo Park
Debbie Mytels
Robert Neff
William M Robinson
Robyn Duby
Serene Ang
David Alan Foster
Lynnie Melena
Eric Nordman
Amie Ashton
John Woodfill
Jane Rosten

From Appendix D, SIP FAQs
 ​Why is the City of Palo Alto building more parking garages? Won't that encourage people to drive instead of using
other means to get downtown?
The City Manager and staff (as well as the 1998 Comp Plan and the ongoing update) envision a future in which the use of
single occupant vehicles will decline, reducing the need for parking. We are actively nurturing this vision with policies and
actions in
Downtown and elsewhere (including establishment of the TMA, introduction of parking pricing, more effective
management of the parking we already have, and development of Mobility As A Service solutions through our Federal
Transit Administration grant and other programs). This future will also be advanced by changes in the marketplace, such
as the expansion of ridesharing companies and the development and deployment of autonomous vehicles.
Meanwhile, we need to address today’s challenges, including current parking demand, without precluding or
discouraging future progress, and without wasting resources. We’ll also need to anticipate how current parking lots
could be redeveloped with other uses as parking demand declines in the future.

1 ​Amounts of CO​2​ Released when Making & Using Products ​http://www.co2list.org/files/carbon.htm
2 ​TMA Commute ​Survey​ Results
www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/56092
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:37 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Peter Brewer <peter@brewerfirm.com>
Sent:                          Sunday, January 21, 2018 11:17 AM
To:                            Council, City
Subject:                       Cal Ave Garage - Do Not Reduce



I am unable to attend the City Council Meeting on Monday, January 22, 18 at 8:30pm, but
that is not because I do not care about the Cal. Ave. business district. I do care deeply.

The proposed garage on Sherman Avenue, between Birch and Ash (which was approved last
spring by the city council) is now planned to be reduced by one level, resulting in a loss of
90+ spaces.

This reduction is ill-advised and as a building owner and business owner in the Cal. Ave. area
I ask that the Council approve the original proposal that includes two subterranean levels.

Please do not sacrifice the future for a proportionally small savings now.

Peter Brewer

 Peter N. Brewer, Esq.
 Law Offices of Peter N. Brewer
 2501 Park Blvd, 2nd Flr.
 Palo Alto, CA 94306
 (650) 327‐2900 x 12
 www.BrewerFirm.com
 BayAreaRealEstateLawyers.com
 Real Estate Law – From the Ground Up®




                                                     1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:39 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Margaret Heath <maggi650@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Sunday, January 21, 2018 7:08 PM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         California Avenue gararage



Dear Council Members,

While I realize that Palo Alto has budget constraints, I believe that a decision to reduce the size of the proposed
California Avenue Business District parking garage is short sighted and a real disservice to both local
merchants and neighborhood serving businesses.

I am writing to request that you fully fund the new California Avenue parking structure as originally approved,
even if that means delaying or reducing the scope of projects such as the Ross Road and Loma Verde
hardscapes. Council's policy of encouraging and approving dense office construction with insufficient parking
in the California Avenue area is resulting in the parking lots intended for the local businesses, merchants, and
residents, turned into de facto all day parking lots to accommodate new office construction.

As a result, our local merchants and small businesses struggle more than ever in today's environment and
desperately need to replace their lost parking. Residents need the lost parking.

A large part of Palo Alto's livability has been the presence of our merchants and other local businesses. In
today's difficult retail climate and high rents, we need to support the small businesses that serve us in every way
we can, and for as long as we can. And more often than not we need to be able to park to do so. Over the years
we develop friendships and loyalty with the owners and employees of the local businesses we patronize. But, as
is becoming increasingly often, for lack of parking we end up driving further to neighboring towns.

As each merchant or small business is forced to close down or move away, partly as a result of council's actions
or lack of action in the past, it is likely they will be replaced by businesses that do not serve residents nearly as
well.

Please, listen to the merchants and small business owners, and fully fund the parking garage.

Sincerely,
Margaret Heath
2140 Cornell Street
Palo Alto




                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:39 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Bret Andersen <bretande@pacbell.net>
Sent:                          Sunday, January 21, 2018 7:02 PM
To:                            Council, City
Subject:                       Re. Delay the Parking Garage Projects / Spending



Dear Mayor and City Council,

I would like to reinforce the key points from David Coale’s letter recommending that you move to delay further
spending on the parking garage projects for the time being. These projects represent a huge capital commitment
to a long-term (decades), inflexible solution to the evolving problem of parking demand and traffic congestion.
As David’s letter described, we have several other approaches that reduce demand for publicly subsidized
parking, that are much less expensive, seem to be working, and align with our city’s established sustainability
plan. But we also see technology changing rapidly including car sharing services and autonomous vehicle
technologies. For example, Uber and Lyft increasingly reduce parking demand and self-driving shuttle pilots are
already beginning in U.S. cities (see article below). We will no doubt have very different needs for parking
within 10 years.

I hope we can use the money saved from delaying the garage projects to fund the other solutions that both
decrease the need for parking and address our long term sustainable transportation goals.

Sincerely,

Bret Andersen


https://www.wired.com/story/las-vegas-shuttle-crash-self-driving-autonomous/




                                                        2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:39 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Einar Sunde <einarsunde@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Sunday, January 21, 2018 10:26 PM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         Agenda item 15 Meeting 1/11 - Parking structures



I have been a Palo Alto resident since 1971 and have witnessed first hand the exponential growth in office
buildings and traffic and the glaring lack of action (i.e. lack of concern) for reducing traffic and parking issues.

Your professed goal is to reduce single vehicle miles, particularly into downtown and the California Avenue
district. If you really mean it you would not spend $60M or more on new parking structures in the commercial
districts that will, given present trends and lack of effective counter-measures, be inadequate before they open.

You would instead build out a serious (widespread and fast) local shuttle system that would connect the two
Caltrain stations, office parks, commercial districts and the residential zones (and possibly a major parking
facility east of 101). I suspect a decent system (say 40 to 50 new shuttle buses) could be operating within a
relatively short time for less than one tenth of the cost of these garages.

It should be obvious - if you want to reduce traffic, don't add new incentives to drive. Instead, spend taxpayer's
money for effective long-term solutions that will actually work.

Thank you.

Einar Sunde
675 Channing Avenue




                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:43 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Shannon McEntee <shannonrmcentee@gmail.com>
Sent:                          Monday, January 22, 2018 12:04 PM
To:                            Council, City
Subject:                       Request to Council



     Dear City Council,


     I know costs are skyrocketing, but Palo Alto should not reduce the planned size or scope of the new
     parking garage on Sherman. This garage is vitally needed for the small businesses, service providers, and
     residents who need to park when they visit this area. We don’t want visitors and business employees to be
     forced out into the streets and into our neighborhoods.


     Also, we must bite the bullet and build all the below-ground levels of the garage. No matter how
     expensive, we can’t throw away this opportunity. If we don’t build it now, the opportunity is lost!

     Regarding the PSB: this is where we can economize or postpone! We should consider a full re-evaluation
     of the PSB project and its escalating costs. Why couldn’t an efficient, effective, and possibly smaller
     project be built? One option is to put the police in temporary space while we build their new facility on
     Hamilton, where they are now and where ingress and egress is much easier and more suitable. Sherman
     Avenue was never a suitable location.

     Sincerely,

     Shannon Rose McEntee
     410 Sheridan Avenue




                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:44 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Lori Villarreal <calavelori@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Monday, January 22, 2018 12:17 PM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        Message from the City Council Home Page
Attachments:                    PastedGraphic-8.tiff



Hello council members,

My name is Lori and I have been a business owner on California Avenue for 13 years. I have two business on
the corner of California and Birch street Calave wine bar and True salon. Both my businesses will be in very
close proximity and be directly affected by the new safety building and parking structure.

I attended the last city council meeting on the project and was pleased with the decision that the parking would
have the most levels of parking possible. Unfortunately I am unable to attend the meeting tonight but wanted
another opportunity to speak to you all.

Our businesses will suffer during this process but I am okay with this as it is for the greater good for our
community. My partners and I see the benefits of adding parking to this area. I have seen this area grow
immensely within the last few years and know how vital it is to plan ahead for patrons to be able to access our
businesses easily. I already hear how difficult it is for customers to find parking during lunch times. I see
multiple larger buidings being built and can only imagine more in the future. I know they have their own
parking but it also just brings more people to the area. More apartments being built at the end of California Ave
near Hanover. I know most of those wont be walking to our area. Why would we not plan for as much parking
as possible? We need to ahead of the game and not behind the times with old views. Growth is inevitable and
hope you all plan for this area to continue to grow and plan for it. Why would you not approve the most amount
of parking? You can’t go back and add more later at this location. We need to keep the big long term picture in
mind and not the short term. I know your job is not easy and I understand the challenges. However, please hear
me when I say parking is an issue already. I have built many relationships with residence and neighboring
residence that come to visit my businesses and the common concern is PARKING!! I have not met one person
from fellow business owners to patrons that is not in favor of the most parking as possible. Please keep to the
plan that was agreed upon previously for 2 levels below and 4 levels above. Please do not reduce the parking
spaces!

Thank you for taking the time to read my response.


Cheers,
Lori Romero Villarreal
Managing Partner
C: 408-887-5155
calavelori@gmail.com
www.calave.com




                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:44 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Art Liberman <art_liberman@yahoo.com>
Sent:                         Monday, January 22, 2018 1:28 PM
To:                           Council, City
Subject:                      slow capital spending on Arastradero - Charleston reconstruction



At this evening's meeting, you will be reviewing capital spending projects and their budgets. Recent
estimates show inflated costs for projects and you must make some hard choices. I have reviewed
the City Manager's report and would like to make a suggestion.

Instead of reducing the capacity and cost of the CalAve parking garage, as proposed by Staff, I
suggest to slow - or stop for the time being - the reconstruction of the Arastradero-Charleston
roadway corridor. The roadway is functioning and rebuilding it now, when funds are short, is an
expenditure that Palo Alto cannot afford. It is not going to measurably improve traffic and safety on
the corridor, for bicyclists, has largely been addressed by the roadway configurations that reduced
traffic lanes and widened bike lanes. Many in the city would view its reconstruction now as a solution
in search of a problem - and a very expensive solution and certainly of much lesser importance than
others in the list

In particular, the project for the new Public Safety building and the nearby parking garage should be
the top priority and no changes to those plans ought to be adopted.

Sincerely,

Arthur Liberman
751 Chimalus Drive




                                                       1
    City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 2:48 PM

    Carnahan, David

    From:                                 Sharon C <sharonchin@msn.com>
    Sent:                                 Monday, January 22, 2018 2:07 PM
    To:                                   Council, City
    Subject:                              EPPP Permits & Cal Ave Parking Garage


    Dear Palo Alto City Council,

    https://www.paloaltoonline.com/news/2018/01/19/as-costs-grow-city-may-scale-back-garage-plan

    This is just infuriating.

    The City Council needs to take a giant step back and assess. Whether you are a 'residentialist' or 'pro-housing', remove those
    labels. Please do two things. Look at the situation from two different perspectives 1) Pretend you are a resident and live in either
    Evergreen Park or Mayfield neighborhoods and think how you would feel. And 2) As an elected official, think about what is
    best for Palo Alto almost as if this city were a person. Don't think about who donated to your campaign or the politics of any of
    it. Just think purely about Palo Alto and what will make this city thrive for the next several decades - remembering that Palo
    Alto residents are an important cog of what makes this city vibrant and interesting.

    Whether you are an advocate of slow-growth or pro-development, you cannot build without planning for impact this
    development will have on residents, businesses and existing infrastructure. What is the strategic growth plan here for Palo
    Alto? Even the most thoughtful development creates impact -- and it is your duty to ensure various components that are
    impacted - residents, infrastructure, businesses are kept in balance.

    If you continue to allow development along Park Boulevard and other locations not just in Mayfield, Evergreen Park, but also
    other city neighborhoods without planning for what impact this will have on the streets - traffic, safety, commute of pedestrians,
    bicyclists, vehicles + adequate parking not just for commuters but for residents and guests to frequent our city and business
    districts -- you simply will continue to have negative impacts and threaten the livelihood of Palo Alto.

    The city is playing catch up from all the construction that was allowed to happen without adequate parking and thought to the
    impact this development would have on our infrastructure, city streets and neighborhoods. To reduce the size of this parking
    garage and 'solve' the problem by approving more parking permits to be sold so cars here on business can park on residential
    streets is putting a bandaid on the problem - and it's unfair to put the burden solely on the residents of Evergreen Park and
    Mayfield. If any of you lived here, how would you feel? If any of you commuted on Park Boulevard near the Alma/Oregon
    overpass on a regular basis between 3-6pm, how would you feel? If any of you frequent Cal Ave on a regular basis between 11-
    2pm, how long does it take you to find a parking spot?

    What hasn't been mentioned yet is the impact all this traffic congestion has on safety of pedestrians and bicyclists/foot traffic of
    all ages.

    You all need to take a long view here and consider all perspectives of what these decisions mean for our city and for its
    inhabitants. I am just exasperated with your thought process and feel suspect of what is influencing your decisions.




1) Do not reduce the planned size or scope of the new parking garage. This garage is vitally needed for the small businesses, service
    providers, and residents who needs somewhere to park when they visit this area. We don’t want visitors and business employees
    to be forced out into the streets and into our neighborhoods.



                                                                     1
    City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 2:48 PM
    2) Adding more commercial parking permits is the exact opposite or purpose of having an RPPP in our neighborhoods. The
    goal of these programs is to actually find ways to “reduce” the need for commercial permits over time and hopefully make
    neighborhood parking open for residents.

    Therefore:




    A) Do not increase the current 250 commercial permits limit in the Evergreen Park/Mayfield neighborhood. Adding more
    permits for commercial use will continue to add to an already congested parking problem in this area. Instead, we need to find a
    way to “reduce” commercial permits by at least 10% each year.




     B) No commercial permits should be issued to new buildings that have Traffic Development Management programs (TDMs).



    C) Make commercial permit parking available along El Camino Real (both sides of the street), from Stanford Avenue to Park
    Blvd./Serra for local businesses.


Don't let shortsighted decisions continue to plague the vibrancy of this town.

    Sharon Chin
    Resident of Evergreen Park




                                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 2:50 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                            aldeivnian@gmail.com on behalf of Adina Levin <adina.levin@friendsofcaltrain.com>
Sent:                            Monday, January 22, 2018 2:43 PM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         Agenda #15 - Infrastructure Plan and Projects - Cost-effective parking and access


Honorable Council Members,

Friends of Caltrain would like to support the concerns raised by Carbon Free Palo Alto regarding the status of
the proposed parking garages, given the $50 million shortfall for the city’s infrastructure projects.

After City Council made decisions early in 2017 to move forward with two parking garages, Palo Alto's
Downtown Transportation Management Association, created with a goal of reducing solo driving by 30%,
reported strong take-up from its initial pilot programs. Based on the strong pilot results, the city decided to fund
TMA expansion, and with this funding, the TMA plans to shift up to 750 people to non-SOV modes by the end
of calendar year 2018.

As a major employer, the City of Palo Alto’s Go Pass participation is showing strong results, with an uptake
that has increased from 51 in 2015 to 172 in 2016, to 200 in 2017.

The PATMA survey, and the results from the programs from the TMA and the city, both suggest that there may
be about 400 fewer workers driving to and parking in downtown Palo Alto over the last year.

In short, Palo Alto has already reduced more car trips with its downtown TDM programs than the number of
spaces proposed in the downtown garage; and TDM activity in the Cal Ave area has not even been
commissioned.

Also, since Council approved the garages in April, the federal funding for Caltrain electrification, which was
hung up in DC earlier in the year, was finally confirmed, construction is under way, and expected to be
complete in 2022. Electric Caltrain will have the ability to carry more passengers and provide better service to
underserved stations such as Cal Ave.

One staff recommendation is to downsize the Cal Ave parking garage, eliminating the second underground
level and reducing the number of net new spaces from 335 to 241. Staff's recommendation to prune the Cal
Ave parking garage is based on recent data-collection showing that the demand crunch is largely during
weekday lunchtime hours; and anticipating upcoming initiatives to shift travel from single occupancy vehicle
trips.

Given Palo Alto's initial success at reducing downtown car commuting, and the progress on Caltrain
electrification, we would recommend holding off on costly and permanent expenditures in parking supply,
while:
* continuing to invest in and assess the results of the TDM programs to reduce driving
* using business registry and other data to verify that Palo Alto is able to reduce driving faster than
employment growth in areas targeted by TDM programs
* continuing to advance wayfinding and paid parking as strategies to better manage existing parking supply
* experimenting with programs such as being piloted in Mountain View, providing Lyft/Uber discounts for
people coming to Cal Ave from other parts of Palo Alto at times of high parking occupancy

As Carbon Free Palo Alto points out, reducing solo driving is an essential strategy to achieve the city’s climate
goals. Given recent data on the progress of these initiatives, pausing the garage projects, while focusing on
                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 2:50 PM
investments in reducing driving and managing supply would be a prudent strategy to address the funding
shortfall.

A future decision to move forward with the garages should depend on clear evidence that growth of employees
and visitors in the Downtown and/or Cal Ave areas will outstrip the ability of TDM, parking management, and
transit improvements to reduce parking demand.

Thank you for your consideration,

Adina
Adina Levin
Friends of Caltrain
http://greencaltrain.com
650-646-4344




                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 3:39 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                               Elani Gitterman <elani.gitterman@gmail.com>
Sent:                               Monday, January 22, 2018 3:28 PM
To:                                 Council, City
Subject:                            California Avenue parking


Hello,

I'm a Palo Alto resident and visit cal ave regularly. I've always found it difficult to park ‐ I understand the proposal is to
make the parking garage smaller and highly recommend against that due to the traffic this street gets. It is especially
helpful for small businesses to have parking available here for their customers.

Thanks,
Elani Gitterman




                                                                1
                                                                     COUNCIL MEETING
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/18/2018 4:50 PM
                                                                     ✔
                                                                              1/22/2018
                                                                         Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                    5   11 14
Brettle, Jessica

From:                               Svendsen, Janice
Sent:                               Thursday, January 18, 2018 4:48 PM
To:                                 Council Members; Council Agenda Email; ORG - Clerk's Office
Cc:                                 Keene, James; Shikada, Ed; De Geus, Robert; Flaherty, Michelle; Yuan, Dave;
                                    Ghaemmaghami, Hamid; Gitelman, Hillary; Reichental, Jonathan; Dauler, Heather
Subject:                            1/22 Council Agenda Questions for Items 5,11 & 14




 Dear Mayor and Council Members:

 On behalf of City Manager Jim Keene, please find below in bold staff responses to inquiries
 made by Council Members DuBois and Kou in regard to the January 22, 2018 council meeting
 agenda.

 Item 5 – Adoption of 2018 Legislative Policy & Priorities – CM Kou
 Item 11 – Verizon Wireless placement of communication equipment – CM Kou
 Item 14 – Upgrade to Downtown Project ‐ CM DuBois


 Item 5 – Adoption of 2018 Legislative Policy & Priorities

           Q.1. In the Technology category "Authorizing Palo Alto as a place for autonomous
           vehicle testing." The priority of reducing the congestion on Palo Alto street seems to
           conflict with this authorization. There is a safety factor as well.

           In the Other category "Supporting reasonable state action to update, implement, and
           refine processes, services, and programs affecting the city." With the State proposing
           and passing legislation taking away a municipality's governing controls and imposing
           blanket mandates is not something I want to encourage especially with our City
           budgets thinning. Why are we allowing for the State to continue deregulating our
           local controls and impose unreasonable chaos and financial burden?

           A. 1. The authorization of autonomous vehicle testing would not limit the City’s
           ability to set standards and requirements on any entity allowed to operate. If
           authorized, subsequent City Council action would be required.

           With regard to the question about “Supporting reasonable state action to update,
           implement, and refine processes, services, and programs affecting the city,” this
           allows staff the ability to support and encourage state action that would positively
           impact the City. For example, the City may wish to support bills that allow us to
           streamline duplicative reporting requirements, or regulations that provide
           flexibility in implementing mandated programs. This would not in any way
           diminish the City’s position regarding local control and unfunded mandates, as
           stated in the “Foundational Principles”.
                                                              1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/18/2018 4:50 PM



 Item 11 – Verizon Wireless placement of communication equipment

         Q.1. Was notification provided to the residents in the townhome complex at
         Colorado Place?

         A. 1. After the approval of the lease and ratification by both parties, Verizon will
         start the planning review and approval with our Planning Department. Please refer
         to Palo Alto Municipal Code listed below for more information. The property
         currently houses two other cellular carriers. The current site was used previously
         by Metro PCS.


         The muni code (18.42.110 Wireless Communication Facilities) can be accessed
         here: http://library.amlegal.com/nxt/gateway.dll/California/paloalto
         _ca/paloaltomunicipalcode?f=templates$fn=default.htm$3.0$vid
         =amlegal:paloalto_ca **

         **Instructions: Upon opening the above link, go to Title 18 (Zoning) on the left side
         bar. Scroll down to 18.42 (Standards and Special Uses). Locate 18.42.110 (Wireless
         Communication Facilities.) Scroll down to Section C (Types of WCF Permits Required.)




 Item 14 – Upgrade to Downtown Project

         Q. 1. What basis was used to allocate the costs among the Enterprise funds?

         A. 1. Each utility will pay for the work directly associated with the installation as
         described in the bid items. The joint trench work of $5.7M will be split among the
         3 utilities being installed in the trench (water main, gas main, and two fiber
         conduits).


         Q. 2. Page 3 refers to "dig once" policy ‐ have we adopted an updated dig once
         policy?

         A. 2. Staff developed this project based on a “dig once” policy, though the policy
         has not yet been officially adopted. Staff is developing this along with other
         ordinances, such as String Once, Multi‐unit Housing, and Micro‐trenching, to
         reduce construction costs and minimize disruption in the public‐right‐of‐way. Staff
         plans to bring all the ordinances to Council at one time as a comprehensive package
         for approval. Since University Avenue is the main artery for downtown, it makes
         sense to install everything at the same time to avoid future excavation/disruption
         and only pay indirect and overhead costs once.


         Q. 3. As the staff report states, the point of a dig once policy is to "reduce
         underground construction costs..." . As such the, laying fiber should be viewed as
         incremental work and not be assigned any of the cost of the digging. Can you break
         down the $2.1M expense for fiber on this project? What would be the cost if fiber
                                                              2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/18/2018 4:50 PM
         conduit was laid separately at a future date? How much is the dig once policy saving
         us on costs?

         A. 3.Water, gas, and two fiber conduits are going to be installed in the joint
         trench. Bid item #1 includes the labor, equipment, material costs to excavate and
         shore the trench, install pipes, backfill/restore the trench, as well as all indirect and
         overhead costs such as mobilization/demobilization, traffic control, and
         construction management by the contractor. The estimated cost to install fibers
         separately on University Avenue at a future date has not been estimated at this
         point. Such a project would necessarily carry all the indirect and overhead costs by
         itself, but may be located along a different alignment within this crowded (with
         infrastructure) street. As designed, fiber installation requires a deeper trench, with
         associated shoring and other constructability costs. Nonetheless, the dig once
         policy saves the City from paying the indirect and overhead costs twice and
         minimizes impact on residents, businesses, and transportation in downtown.


         Q. 4. In the detailed bid the fiber related costs appear to be only about $35,000
         dollars ‐ $15K to install 2 PVC conduits, $13K to to install another 4 PVC conduits, and
         $6K to install a fiber optic pull boxes. Is that correct? Where is the rest of the fiber
         expense coming from?

         A. 4.These bid items are the pull boxes and fiber conduits directly allocated to the
         fiber installation and are in addition to the fiber utility’s share of the joint trench
         cost. The primary fiber expense is listed under Bid Item #1 – joint trench and
         installation of water pipe, gas pipe, and fiber conduit. Bid item #1 includes the
         labor, equipment, material costs to excavate and shore the trench, install pipes,
         backfill/restore the trench, as well as all indirect and overhead costs such as
         mobilization/demobilization, traffic control, and construction management by the
         contractor.


         Q. 5. Is more fiber capacity needed at this location?

         A.5. At this time, there are no immediate or forecasted needs for the City. This was
         included to provide flexibility for future uses and advance prior council direction to
         include fiber capacity in conjunction with main replacement projects.


         Q. 6. The staff report on page 4 says "for this specific location, however, the
         incremental cost to include fiber optic conduits may be marginal....:" If council
         decides not to include fiber at this time, how will the $2.1M in cost be allocated to
         other enterprise funds?

         A.6. It is worth noting that the sentence concludes,
                  “…marginal in comparison to anticipated benefits.” Since the fiber is an
                  integral part of the negotiated contract package, if council prefers not to
                  include fiber, staff would not recommend awarding the contract. The
                  project will require repackaging and rebidding, to return to council at a
                  future date.


                                                              3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/18/2018 4:50 PM
         This may encounter the same problem with few or no bidders (high market demand
         and downtown restrictions) and the bid prices for other programs (general fund as
         well as utilities) will be allocated overhead and indirect costs.


         Q. 7. East Palo Alto is in the process of a fiber installation to its public buildings. I
         know some of the ongoing operational costs maybe subsidized but I believe the
         actual construction and installation costs are estimated to be much lower, under
         $200,000 for more than 8000 ft distance. How are they able to do it so cost
         effectively?

         A. 7. It is difficult to make a comparison of costs since we do not know where East
         Palo Alto’s conduits are to be installed or what construction method will be
         used. The installation on University Avenue is very expensive due to the congestion
         of underground utilities in the street (directional drilling method is not feasible
         because of the potential impact to existing underground utilities), restricted
         construction timeframes, extensive outreach and traffic management
         requirements. The high cost of water main installation on California Avenue in the
         Cal Ave Business District around 4 years ago also indicates that it’s typically more
         costly to install utilities in downtown or business districts.


Thank you,
Janice Svendsen


             Janice Svendsen | Executive Assistant to James Keene, City Manager
             250 Hamilton Avenue | Palo Alto, CA 94301
             D: 650.329.2105 | E: janice.svendsen@cityofpaloalto.org




                                                              4
                                                                         COUNCIL MEETING

                                                                          ✔
                                                                                  01/22/2018
                                                                              Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                            5        13 15
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:43 PM
Carnahan, David

From:                                 Suzanne Keehn <skeehn2012@gmail.com>
Sent:                                 Monday, January 22, 2018 11:48 AM
To:                                   Council, City
Subject:                              Council meeting Jan. 22nd, Grand Blvd Meeting Jan 23rd, GUP meeting Jan 23rd



To the Palo Alto City Council,

I read the proposed letter that will go to Stanford, and thought it did cover many issues. However,
the same
issues apply to all the development that Palo Alto proposes, and the same considerations should be
applied.

From what I understand, the update for the Cal Ave. Parking structure, would change two floors
underground and three above
ground. Which would result in a structure way over the limit of 50 feet presently allowed. I would
be totally out of of place on Cal Ave
and become a model for other such building exceptions in our city. For the residents in the area the
current plan of two underground
floors should stand. The residents cannot and should not absorb the overflow traffic. Business
corporations and developers need to
pay for the additional expense of the underground floors.

The Legislative Priorities, Utilities document is much clearer, and I appreciate Councilwoman
Lydia Kou's addition. I like the word
emmisions added to the airplane noise. I am sure many are flying much lower than allowed, at
night I think they could land in my
house. And, yes we need to be aware of the sea level rise, and take steps, and acount for that in all
our development decisions.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The city council is supposed to represent the residents and citizens of Palo Alto, the two meetings
on January 23rd, says to me
that you do not really want to inform us about the 'Grand Blvd' plans. I never heard about the first
two, and one at Country Sun
makes no sense, no room. This one tomorrow is at the Cal Train Station, outside, no seating,cold,
and conflicts with the GUP meeting
at City Council. I urge you to have a Grand Blvd information and discussion meeting at a
reasonable place, as you did with the
train discussion at the library.


                                                                   1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:43 PM
I won't go nursing a cold, but hardly anyone will. I urge you to have another one with a large room
at another time. The current
meeting will not be conducive to either information or discussion.. Please Reprensent ALL of us.

Sincerely,
Suzanne Keehn
4076 Orme St.
94306




                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:29 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Keith Ferrell <ferrell.keith@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Friday, January 19, 2018 6:18 PM
To:                             Kamhi, Philip
Cc:                             Council, City; Planning Commission; City Mgr; Shikada, Ed
Subject:                        Re: Clarification on Report #8763



Philip,
What was the method used to calculate the 581 parking spaces in Southgate? We hand measured the
neighborhood prior to the RPP and came up with 470 usable parking spaces. Our method used a 21' parking
space, per the city, and took into account no parking zones, curb cuts, etc... As an example, if there was 35 feet
on one side of a driveway and 28 feet on the other, that would be only two usable spaces, as you could only
feasibly park one car on each side of the driveway. However, if you merely added those measurements and
divided by 21', you could come up with 63 feet total and three 21' spaces. The former method is an accurate
reflection of parking availability while the latter method overcounts spaces by 50%. Can you provide me with
the method used and also the supporting documentation? If you would like, I can walk you through our
measurements and you can confirm our counts. I would hate for more misinformation to go to council. I am
starting to realize that one reason why residents could be constantly frustrated with some of the decisions made
by council is due to the poor quality of information given to them. As the saying goes, "garbage in, garbage
out".

Please provide me with this information as soon as you can given the January 28th meeting date.

Thanks
Keith

On Fri, Jan 19, 2018 at 12:00 PM, Keith Ferrell <ferrell.keith@gmail.com> wrote:
 Phllip,
 In your report to council, there's a footnote on 1515 and 1681 El Camino Real which states, "The two
 commercial properties at 1515 and 1681 El Camino Real we rezoned RM-15 (multifamily housing) in the
 1980s and the Council’s action at that time allowed medical office uses to remain on the sites as long as they
 did not expand."

 Do you have 1) the document stating this action and 2) the number of employees working at the offices at that
 time?

 If not, how did you get this information and what is the method to check to see if the offices are expanding? Is
 it based on employees, square footage, customer base? What is meant by "expand"?

 Two other quick points, which I will expand on in a more detailed email, 1) You continue to quote 70
 employees. I understand you qualify that with "many" are part-time, but the report still throws out a number
 that has no meaning. It's irresponsible to say there are 70 employees as a way to sway council into thinking
 there's a huge need for permits, when in fact, there are only 25 -30 employees at both addresses on a consistent
 basis. I know this, because I counted cars for 2 weeks and took down license plate numbers. So, I have a
 record of all cars that showed up more than once over that span. 2) You also continue to tout a 30 - 40% show
 rate of employee permits. A quick walk around the offices and you'll find all 10 employee permits every day,
 that's 100% a show rate.
                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:29 PM

Now that you are presenting false information to council, I find it necessary to attend the council meeting on
January 29th. I had hoped to travel to visit my father for his birthday during that time, but that will have to
wait.

I find it frustrating and still can't get my head around the fact that this type of misinformation is allowed to pass
through staff and onto council where they are to make an informed decision. In order to make an informed
decision, there must be an accurate representation of the facts, and this report does not have that. Even worse,
you are more than aware that you are presenting false information and yet you continue to do so.

Keith Ferrell




                                                         2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/25/2018 6:54 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                Christopher Wong <christopher.wong76@yahoo.com>
Sent:                                Tuesday, January 23, 2018 5:19 PM
To:                                  Council, City; Wolfgang Dueregger wolfgang.dueregger@alumni.stanford.edu
                                     [evergreen-park-discuss]
Subject:                             Re: [evergreen-park-discuss] new 7 floor parking garage in Cal Ave Business District (on
                                     tonight's agenda)


Hi City Council,
I am in agreement with Wolfgang. The compromise of removing an underground floor from the project doesn't seem
logical, given the future impact of several buildings ongoing in various phases of construction in the Cal Ave business
area. The utilization studies from November 2017 don't take into account the traffic and parking activity these businesses
will account for when they come online this year and next, for example.

If I understand correctly, the net parking space increase was to be a total of 158 spaces, at an updated schematic cost
which exceeds 4x the original estimate. Staff recommendation suggestion to remove a subfloor will reduce the net parking
increase down to 64 net spaces, at a cost of 3x the original estimate (assuming the ~$8m is saved). At nearly $40m using
the schematic estimate, this seems like an awful lot of money to spend and it's a little alarming that the cost estimate from
4 years ago is so far off today (I would understand a 2x cost increase for improving economy, demand, but this doesn't
seem logical). Are we doing due diligence in correctly measuring building cost, or is the city getting fleeced a bit here by
the assumptions that construction costs have gone up this much (everyone loves PA money).

Ultimately, you've got to account for future growth as well. I think this is short sighted at the expense of meeting the
budget. This move will push people back into Evergreen RPP, and we'll be back in the same position again a year or two
from now. Don't give Cal Ave businesses and surrounding neighborhoods the short stick for this.

Regards,
Christopher


On Tuesday, January 23, 2018, 1:06:34 PM PST, Wolfgang Dueregger wolfgang.dueregger@alumni.stanford.edu
[evergreen-park-discuss] <evergreen-park-discuss-noreply@yahoogroups.com> wrote:



Dear City Council,

as a resident of Evergreen Park I am writing to you today to stick to your own promise last year to go "big" on the new parking
garage, i.e. 2 floors underground and 5 floors above ground. There should be no violation of the existing height limit either.

You know very well that the whole parking situation around Cal Ave is very dire, and local businesses have urged you together
with us residents to build a new garage so that some relief will be possible,

We are talking about to keep the current parking situation (without any reduction in floors of the planned garage) somewhat
under control since numerous new developments are starting and the whole parking situation will get worse. A few years back,
downtown got 3 big garages, and the "2nd" downtown does not "qualify" for at least a SINGLE ONE?

we hope that you stick to your promise and words and build the garage with 7 floors (2 underground and 5 above ground).

To cut away a whole floor is slap into the face of the whole Cal Ave Business District, its merchants, patrons and neighbors
alike.

if you need the money for the police station, then rethink the design of the police station. But you cannot cannibalize instead an
approved project like the new garage building that was presented to businesses and neighbors as a "done" and "great deal" for
everybody.

                                                                 1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/25/2018 6:54 AM
thanks

Wolfgang Dueregger

__._,_.___


Posted by: Wolfgang Dueregger <wolfgang.dueregger@alumni.stanford.edu>


    Reply via web post                                                                                                                                      •   Reply to sender   •   Reply to group   •   Start a New Topic   •   Messages in this topic (1)


       Right-click here to download pictures. To help p ro tect y our priv acy , Outlook prev ented automatic download of this picture from the Internet.




Have you tried the highest rated email app?
With 4.5 stars in iTunes, the Yahoo Mail app is the highest rated email app on the market. What are you waiting for? Now
you can access all your inboxes (Gmail, Outlook, AOL and more) in one place. Never delete an email again with 1000GB
of free cloud storage.


Join Nextdoor to connect and communicate with neighbors in Evergreen Park and Palo
Alto. https://evergreenparkpaloalto.nextdoor.com
VISIT YOUR GROUP

       Right-click here to download pictures. To help p ro tect y our priv acy , Outlook prev ented automatic download of this picture from the Internet.
       Yahoo! Groups




• Privacy • Unsubscribe • Terms of Use
.




__,_._,___




                                                                                                                                                                                                             2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/23/2018 4:31 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Arlene Goetze <photowrite67@yahoo.com>
Sent:                          Tuesday, January 23, 2018 12:25 PM
To:                            Sara Cody; Ro Khanna
Subject:                       6 Steps to Vaccine Safety--Robt. F. Kennedy, Jr. World Mercury Project




World Mercury Project

Help Us Restore Children's Health

    by Ensuring Vaccines are Safe for Everyone
See World Mercury Project led by Atty. Robert F. Kennedy, Jr for video in reference.

  American children’s ability to develop and thrive is being sabotaged by an avalanche of chronic health
conditions, with rates among the highest in the world. And, American children are also the most vaccinated.
Since 1990, the number of vaccines required for school entry has increased by approximately 260% which is in
lockstep with all of the childhood epidemics. Counting vaccines administered during pregnancy and yearly flu
shots, by the time our children are 18 years old they have received up to 73 doses of vaccines!

Here are the facts:

       One in every 2 American children (54%) is chronically ill
       One in every 6 American children (15%) has a developmental disorder
       One in every 8 American children (13%) requires special education services
       One in every 10 American children (11%) has ADHD
       One in every 13 American children has eczema and food allergies including deadly peanut allergies
       One in every 68 American children has autism
       Infant mortality (SIDS, etc.) in America is much higher than in other high-income countries
   Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. (from the video): “We want to make sure that the conflicts are removed from
the regulators who are making decisions over our vaccines and that the vaccines that our children get are
as safe as they can possibly be, that the science is strong and robust. None of that is possible unless we
first accomplish World Mercury Project’s 6 steps to vaccine safety.”

RFK, Jr: Our ‘6 Steps to Vaccine Safety’ Will Create
Scientific Integrity & a Robust, Transparent Regulatory Process
1. Subject vaccines to same rigorous approval process as other drugs.
2. Mandatory reporting of adverse vaccine effects; automate VAERS* and VSD• databases.
3. Ensure that all involved with Federal vaccine approvals and recommendations are free
from
   conflicts of interest.
4. Reevaluate all vaccines recommended by ACIP* prior to adoption of evidence-based
guidelines.
5. Study what makes some individuals more susceptible to vaccine injury.
                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/23/2018 4:31 PM
6. Support fully informed consent and individual rights to refuse vaccination.

Let the Science Speak
  Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. (from the video): “We all want the best for America’s children. We need to start with
good science and a clean regulatory process.”

  Here are just a few of the many federal and regulatory publications admitting the deficiencies in the system.
The government is asking healthy children to be vaccinated with shots that have not undergone a rigorous safety
process. Vaccine injuries can and do happen. Our children deserve better.
Children’s Health, The Nation’s Wealth: Assessing and Improving Child HealthElectronic Support for Public Health

Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS)Adverse Effects of Vaccines, Evidence and Causality. Institute of
Medicine, August 2011; Report Brief
The Childhood Immunization Schedule and Safety: Stakeholder Concerns, Scientific Evidence, and Future Studies. Committee on the
Assessment of Studies of Health Outcomes Related to the Recommended Childhood Immunization Schedule; Board on Population
Health and Public Health Practice; Institute of Medicine.* National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program

Neurobehavioural effects of developmental toxicity

 and 16 more...

We are not anti-vaccine. We are pro vaccine safety. It's
time to bring scientific integrity to our vaccine
program. Robert F. Kennedy, Jr.
  Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. and the World Mercury Project want vaccines to go through the same rigorous
approval process and testing as all drugs. The government admits that only 1% of vaccine injuries are reported.
That would translate to as many as 6 million Americans possibly injured by vaccines each year. Our children
deserve better.


   Robert F. Kennedy, Jr, (from the video): "I don't know anything more important that this issue.
All of the environmental issues that I have worked on are absolutely critical to the future of our country and
planet. But we can't solve those environmental problems if we don't have children with
functioning brains and good health. We need a generation of kids that are ready to grapple
with big problems."

Neurotoxins don’t belong in vaccines. Our children deserve better. Donations accepted
at igg.me/at/vaccinesafetyproject.

An Educational Email forwarded by Arlene Goetze, No Toxins for
Children,              photowrite67@yahoo.com




                                                                2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/23/2018 4:32 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Rebecca Altamirano <rebecca@altamirano.org>
Sent:                            Tuesday, January 23, 2018 2:07 PM
To:                              Michael Callagy; Don Horsley; WSlocum@smcgov.org; smonowitz@smcgov.org;
                                 Council, City; supervisor.simitian@bos.sccgov.org; Janet Davis; Antonio Altamirano
Subject:                         Alpine Road Concerns



To Whom It May Concern,

Our family has lived on Alpine Road in the Stanford Weekend Acres neighborhood for over 10 years. We have
seen an incredible increase in traffic in the past few years and it has become unbearable. We have 4 children, 3
are school age, and we feel like we are taking our lives into our hands twice a day when we make the walk
along Alpine Road to the bus stop on Bishop Lane. On at least 4 different occasions, our family has had to
literally jump out of the way of a car that was driving too fast and distracted by a cell phone and almost rear-
ended the car in front, and instead veered into the path, right where we were walking. This could have been
catastrophic.

Cars and trucks are almost always driving at high speeds, often veering into the bike lane and pedestrian
path. The school bus often has to wait several minutes for cars to slow down in order to merge back onto the
road. At one time, the CHP and school district entertained the idea of eliminating this bus stop altogether since
no one was following the laws of stopping for the bus. It was mindblowing to me that the powers that be would
consider doing this instead of enforcing the laws of having cars STOP for the school bus STOP sign and making
it a safe stop for students. The only time when the traffic is moving at a safe pace is when there is a police
presence. Since we are in unincorporated San Mateo County, we have to rely on the already stretched thin high
way patrol. Recently, there has been collaboration across other patrol areas to have additional patrol cars out,
but the county must pay these officers overtime and the police chief has explained to me that this is
unsustainable with the current budget.

Stanford claims that there will be no new net trips, but I do not think they are taking into account the uber, lyft,
and taxi rides, the delivery trucks from Amazon, frequent visitors, the maintenance and repair teams that have to
come out to support the ever-growing university.

It is incredibly important that we maintain this unique neighborhood for ALL to enjoy.

We are asking for:

       Slower speeds
       Traffic lights and other things to slow traffic down so that we can actually exit our neighborhood safely
        that Stanford will pay for
       Daily police monitoring during school bus times
       Make Alpine a no truck route
       Barriers put up to protect the pedestrians and bikers from the vehicle traffic

Please be proactive and listen to our concerns. We fear that a catastrophe-- like a child being hit or killed-- is a
real possibility and only then will our concerns be addressed.

Sincerely,
                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:31 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Kathy Riley <ksr94306@hotmail.com>
Sent:                           Saturday, January 20, 2018 9:07 AM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        Anti-Idle Ordinance



Dear Council Members,

Last summer there was talk of an anti‐idle ordinance but I cannot find it when I search the city code. I would
like to encourage you to move forward with the concept.

I am living with a situation where the employees of the Tesla showroom on El Camino park in front of my
condominium unit. At noon time there was the man who was napping in his car at lunch time with the engine
running for over half an hour until I became so exasperated with the sound that I knocked on the window and
woke him up. Then there is the woman who eats her lunch in the car with the engine running and the radio
blaring. And there is the man who works a night shift detailing the Tesla cars. He drives a large, old black
truck with a loud rumbling muffler. He leaves work around 1 a.m. in the morning and runs his engine for as
long as 20 to 30 minutes. Finally my husband went out at 1 a.m. to talk to him. He was sitting in the truck
reading on his cell phone. He said that the engine of the old truck needed to warm up. I have talked to one of
the managers at Tesla but feel that my complaints were dismissed when I was asked, "it's a public street isn't
it?"

Please put an anti‐idle ordinance in place!

It would also be helpful if Tesla provided more parking for their employees or at least asked them to park on El
Camino rather than in our little neighborhood where they take up all our street parking.

Thanks and regards,

Kathy Riley




                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/23/2018 4:31 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Bill Miller <rightcobmiller@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Tuesday, January 23, 2018 1:34 PM
To:                             david.rader@pln.sccgov.org; Council, City
Subject:                        Comment regarding Stanford proposed expansion and GUP



For an institution with a worldwide reputation as a citadel of enlightenment, I’m surprised by how little
creative, innovative thinking is applied when deciding what to do with Stanford’s obscenely large endowment.
Another billion dollars? Let’s build more buildings! The result is a relentlessly metastasizing campus that
cannot help but eventually overtax and degrade the surrounding community and environment.

With the gift of such funding, why not consider additional options? Offer more scholarships for underprivileged
youth. How about funding more field research to transfer innovative medical and other technologies in the
Third World? And if you simply must build, why not satellite campuses in disadvantaged communities? Or how
about a demonstration city showcasing the latest in sustainability?

With all the current chaos in the world, do we really need yet another art museum with a billionaire’s name on
it?

Bill Miller

Palo Alto, CA




                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/23/2018 4:28 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Suzanne Keehn <skeehn2012@gmail.com>
Sent:                          Monday, January 22, 2018 4:36 PM
To:                            Council, City
Subject:                       Elizabeth Goldstein Alexis



From:
Elizabeth Goldstein Alexis [
mailto:eal
exis@gmail.com
]
Sent:
Monday, December 04, 2017 5:41 PM
To:
Council, City
Cc:
Nadia Naik
Subject:
Comments on Stanford GUP EIR process
I am writing to request that the city use the 60 day extension for the Stanford
GUP EIR
to continue public outreach a
nd incorporate additional data into the analysis before
submitting a letter.
I do have some specific suggestions and ideas which are outlined below

I have read this letter, and here suggestions and totally agree we need another 60 days, the GUP is
overly huge and impacts our whole city and surrounding cities.
Suzanne Keehn
4076 Orme St.
94306




                                                      1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/23/2018 4:29 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Nadia Naik <nadianaik@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Monday, January 22, 2018 8:40 PM
To:                             Council, City
Cc:                             Gitelman, Hillary; Keene, James; Shikada, Ed; Mello, Joshuah; info
Subject:                        Examples of Stanford using land outside the cordon for Academic purposes (Stanford
                                at Porter Road and Hoover Parking garage)
Attachments:                    detailed cordon map.pdf



Dear City Council Members,

Tonight at the City Council meeting, I mentioned the Stanford at Porter Road area (in the Stanford Research
Park). As was also mentioned by Pat Burt, this is an example of academic functions being moved into the
Stanford Research Park.

The CEQA process and segmentation of the EIRs (Academic vs. Research Park vs. Medical Center) prevents
us from really seeing cumulative impacts or potentially developing holistic solutions to transportation and
congestion issues.

Below is a description of the Stanford at Porter from Stanford's website, as well as their parking policy.

In addition, below is more information about the Hoover Parking Garage that was built recently. Commuters to
campus jobs who park in the new parking lot would be outside the cordon, thus they would not be counted
under the No Net New Trips counts. Beyond that, if they ride the Marguerite bus, then my understanding is they
then get a credit for reducing a trip in the impacted area. This seems counter to the goal.

If you have any additional questions, please let me know.

Nadia

SoM Technology & Innovation Park
Introduction

A total of seven buildings in the Porter Drive vicinity will be occupied by the School of Medicine (SoM) and
Stanford University (SU) administrative units. Together this neighborhood will be referred to as Stanford @
Porter Drive. Four of the buildings are SoM facilities and make up the Technology and Innovation Park at
Porter Drive; the other three University facilities. The Technology and Innovation (TnI) Park will continue to
support the long standing commitment to the bio-medical research enterprise within the Stanford Research
Park.

Many hours have been spent on planning the operations associated with these facilities to ensure that the
activities conducted there are well coordinated with activities on campus. The successful organization starts
with proper planning, coordination and preparation in advance of the first occupant moving into the facilities.


Stanford University Administrative Groups

                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/23/2018 4:29 PM
The three buildings that the university will occupy include 3160 and 3145 Porter Drive and 1841 Page Mill
Road. These buildings will house administrative groups that support operations on the main campus including
LBRE, Human Resources, Purchasing, etc. The University’s current plan is to occupy the facilities on Porter
Drive for five to ten years, before permanently relocating these administrative groups to Redwood City. In that
the SoM intends to occupy its facilities at Porter Drive for a significantly longer time horizon, the School may
make fundamentally different infrastructure investment decisions than those made by the University. Areas
where cooperation is appropriate and the School and University interests align are highlighted throughout the
Stanford@Porter Drive website.



SoM Technology and Innovation Park
The Technology and Innovation (TnI) Park at Porter Drive is comprised of four buildings along Porter Drive
and Page Mill Road. Three buildings are research facilities, and one building houses School of Medicine
administrative support services. The research programs include the Human Genome Program, the Early
Cancer Detection program and the Stanford Sleep Center. Additional research programs will be identified and
evaluated in 2013/2014 for inclusion in the third research building at 1651 Page Mill Rd. The administrative
groups include Dean’s Office support functions currently located at Stanford Menlo Park and the Medical
Center Development group currently located on Sand Hill Road.

Combined Campus
At peak projections, it is anticipated that there will be 1,500 or more Stanford employees occupying the seven
buildings that comprise the Porter Drive neighborhood. Of the 1,500 staff members, approximately 40% are
expected to be Stanford University staff and 60%, Stanford School of Medicine faculty, staff and students.


     Here is their stated parking policy (bolding mine) - which seems to include contradictory statements.

     https://porterdrive.stanford.edu/som/parking



     Parking in the Porter Drive Neighborhood
     For Spring 2013, or until the construction in the 3155 and 3165 Porter Drive buildings is complete,
     3172 Porter Drive occupants should park in the 3172 Porter Drive parking lot or as overflow in the
     1651 Page Mill Road parking lot.

     Questions remain regarding parking capacity and policies within the Porter Drive
     neighborhood. A parking study of the Porter Drive area was conducted and concluded that while
     there may be oversubscription in one or two building lots, that there is a sufficient total number of
     parking spaces for the people who will need them.




                                    It is anticipated that no-cost parking permits will be issued next
     year to all Porter Drive residents for use in the lots associated with the Stanford
     buildings. This type of no-cost parking permit program will ensure that the available parking spaces
     are used by the occupants of the Porter Drive neighborhood. It is important to preserve “free
                                                               2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/23/2018 4:29 PM
    parking” as it is currently an important benefit for employees who move off
    campus. Additionally, a no-cost permit program will prevent the upgraded shuttle service from
    being used by individuals on campus to connect them to free parking, as well as preventing
    neighboring non-Stanford entities from using the limited parking spaces available.

     In the meantime, a tight parking environment will however, encourage individuals to use the shuttle,
    departmental and zip cars and other forms of transportation to facilitate movement back and forth to
    campus during the work day. Purchase of a limited number of departmental parking permits for use
    in personal vehicles will also work to support, but limit, the number of trips to/from campus during
    the workday. The very real problem with driving your own car to campus will be the difficulty in
    finding a parking place both on campus and possibly when you return to Porter Drive.



    -----


     Hoover Pavilion garage opens for parking Sept. 2


     A new parking garage is expected to open the week of Sept. 2 at 211 Quarry Road at the Hoover Pavilion, across from the Stanford

     In light of increasingly limited parking capacity on campus, all Stanford commuters are encouraged to consider the Hoover Pavilio

     The Hoover garage will offer more than 1,000 parking spaces, including 300 patient/visitor spaces and approximately 700 commut

     The Marguerite shuttle will provide service between Hoover Pavilion and Stanford Medical Center via a revised Line MC route an
     the building, facing Palo Road.

     New Marguerite schedules, including Line H and revised Line MC, will be available the week of Aug. 26 on all buses, the Margue

     http://med.stanford.edu/news/all-news/2013/08/hoover-pavilion-garage-opens-for-parking-sept-2.html

     If you need assistance with parking, please contact transportation@stanford.edu or (650) 723-9362. If you have questions about M




                                                             3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/23/2018 4:29 PM




                        Stanford Lands

                                         City of Menlo Park
                                         City of Palo Alto
                                         Town of Portola Valley
                                         Town of Woodside
                                         Unincorporated San Mateo County
                                         Unincorporated Santa Clara County                                              -,..._..~·....... /
                                                                                                                                               '·'l
                                                                                                                                                   .I                          MENLO PAI



                                                                                                                                          ~

                                         Government Jurisdiction
                                                                                                   r             /•
                                                                                                                    ·       WEST
                                                                                                                         MENLO PARK
                                                                                                                                              '~)
                                                                (                                                   (    (Unln'-. -SM CA>       •
                                                                   ., • -··~ ATHERTON / r-·..._              0                                 '
                                                                           r              r            .·                     (.

                                                                                                                                   . . . •,/). .,/ . . . . . .
                                                                                                                                                      \   • ...,.




                         \         wooo•1oe,.,.                         ., /              / .. y                                                          '\
                        }\ :                                        -=-, /                                  \. ._
                                       ,.. ~ ..,. /
                                            I~ \
                                                               ~
                                                                               ...
                                                                       .. ' • ....
                                                                                     ,,                                  MENLOPARK

                                                                                                                                              -~'--                       '··I      c;.,11
                                                                                                                                                                          ,. ..I: Covr ••
                                        (o;i. x                                                                                    St.AC J.l•tioNol
                                                                                                                               Acc•lfrator l•boraior-y                    \   ..)
                                                    \                                                                                                                .- ··_.,;
                                                                                                                                                                _;
                                              /                                                                                                               )
                                        t
                                                                                                                                                             \.
                                                                                                                                                                \   ..
                                                                                                                                                                     '
                                                                                                                                                                     I

                                                                                                                                                                     \.

                                              /
                                                     /         The 2018 General Use
                                                               Permit applies only to the                                                                                           \''
                                                                                                                                                                                          .,,,,,..   -
                             0                     o.s         unincorporated Santa Clara
                             .____....._           _, Ml ...
                             SLot•loid lf!.RL LUI P      \     County lands as shown in green.
                              l.>11\lllfy- ll. 10l7      ~
                             SU   Jl.11uihd~1n1d         N




                                                                       4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/23/2018 4:29 PM



      Here's what where the Parking lot is (don't be confused as map already shows a parking lot - this is a NEW one lo




                                                      5
                                                                                                                                                                                            K
                                                                                                                                                                                          EE
                                                                                                                                                                                        CR
                                                                                                                                                             ITO
                                                                                                                                                            QU
                                                                                                                                                         CIS
                                                                                                                                                        AN
                                                                                                                                                       FR
   W:\San Jose N Drive\Projects\_SJ15_Projects\SJ15_1585_Stanford_GUP_EIR\Graphics\ADOBE\Fig04_1_Gateways.ai




                                                                                                                                        SAN




                                                                                                                                                                 STANFORD
                                                                                                                                                                 UNIVERSITY




                                                                                                                                280




                                                                                                               06/15/12
                                                                                                                                                                         STANFORD UNIVERSITY TRAFFIC MONITORING REPORT
                                                                                                               Source:Stanford
                                                                                                                       AECOM      Stanford
                                                                                                                               2018          University
                                                                                                                                    General Use           Traffic Monitoring
                                                                                                                                                Permit Boundary              Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Figure 2
                                                                                                                                                                                        Stanford 2018 General Use Permit . 160531
SOURCE: AECOM Stanford University Traffic Monitoring Report; Fehr & Peers
                                                                                                                                                 DAILY MACHINE CORDON COUNT LOCATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                               Figure 5.15-2
                                                                                                                                                                                   Stanford University Campus Gateways



                                                                                                                                                                   5.15-7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Figure 4-1
                                                                                                                                                                              Stanford University Campus Gateways
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:15 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Sent:                           Wednesday, January 17, 2018 1:48 PM
To:                             Mark Standriff; esmeralda.soria@fresno.gov; paul.caprioglio; steve.brandau;
                                oliver.baines; Mayor; Mark Kreutzer; dennisbalakian; David Balakian; beachrides;
                                bearwithme1016@att.net; midge@thebarretts.com; info@superide1.com; nick yovino;
                                robert.andersen; Leodies Buchanan; Council, City; Raymond Rivas;
                                fmerlo@wildelectric.net; Greg.Gatzka; huidentalsanmateo; steve.hogg; hennessy; Joel
                                Stiner; jboren; jerry ruopoli; Jason Tarvin; kfsndesk; Cathy Lewis; lxcastro93
                                @yahoo.com; leager; nchase@bayareanewsgroup.com; newsdesk;
                                pavenjitdhillon@yahoo.com; rosenheim@kpix.cbs.com; russ@topperjewelers.com;
                                Steve Wayte; terry; thomas.esqueda@fresno.gov; Daniel Zack; Doug Vagim
Subject:                        Fwd: Some considerations when a city awards even medical MJ permits




---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Wed, Jan 17, 2018 at 1:29 PM
Subject: Some considerations when a city awards even medical MJ permits
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>




   Wed. Jan. 17, 2018

   Here are some things that Hanford, Ca. considered in awarding medical MJ permits in Nov., 2017:

    http://hanfordsentinel.com/news/local/cannabis-permits-officially-awarded-at-council-
meeting/article_43b224f7-1fb7-58a7-89b6-76dad793eb2c.html#tncms-source=infinity-scroll-summary-siderail-
latest

   More will have to be considered in awarding recreational MJ permits, no doubt.

   But the MJ industry is unstoppable, in my opinion. Fresno might want to join the trend and get some revenue
from it. Someone on KCBS said that the MJ industry is like a huge freight train coming down the track. Jeff
Sessions jumps of the woods and sticks his leg across the tracks.

   51% of Americans support MJ sales, 75% favor medical MJ, and 99% support States rights, said
KCBS. Given that, an issue for federal prosecutors will be, "Can we find jurors who will convict when we
bring cases against MJ dealers who are following Calif. State law". After they lose 5 or 6 big crim. cases in
Calif, Congress will ask them why they are spending limited resources on this when real crimes are out there.

  The issue of getting jurors to convict will rapidly become a consideration for federal prosecutors in states
where MJ has been legalized.

    In cases where organized crime is involved, if MJ is being sold to minors, or if they are selling MJ smuggled
in from Mexico along with cocaine or heroin, they might get convictions.
                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/25/2018 6:54 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                 Yuko Tanaka <yukotanaka_ca@yahoo.com>
Sent:                                 Tuesday, January 23, 2018 10:38 PM
To:                                   Council, City
Cc:                                   Yuko Tanaka
Subject:                              Input to the tentative plan for the Mitchell Park Tennis Courts


I am a Palo Alto resident for over 15 years, and I am a tennis player. I use Mitchell Park library.

I am very much concerned about the current tentative plan for several reasons.


(1) Lit tennis courts are hard to find in Palo Alto. Many tennis players work or go to school, and we can play tennis on
weekends and evenings only. When I play tennis at Mitchell Park, there are always other tennis players waiting for us to
get off the courts - particularly in evenings. Please do not remove lit tennis courts.


(2) The city's tentative plan includes building one new unlit tennis court. If that is within a budget, I think it is better to build
four pickleball courts from scratch where the city plans to build a new tennis court, and convert small courts adjacent to
the tennis courts to pickleball courts. I don't know the purpose of these small courts, but I know they are under utilized
compared to tennis courts. That would make six designated pickleball courts without removing any tennis courts with the
same or less budget.

Alternatively, pickleball courts can be built at lower used unlit tennis courts, such as Peers Park with less impact to the
Palo Alto tennis community, or keep the Mitchell Park back tennis courts to be dual-purpose courts.


(3) Mitchell Park is already crowded. I am concerned that the current city's tentative plan would make it far worse. I have
been experiencing difficulties in parking at Mitchell Park. I like visiting Mitchell Park library on weekends, but it is common
for me to have to circle entire parking area three to five times just to find one parking spot. It sometimes prevent me from
using the library altogether. I learned that about hundred pickleball players from across the Silicon Valley area are using
Mitchell Park tennis courts on Saturdays and Sundays every week. It is a significant contributor of the parking difficulty. It
is also a safety concern because I see many kids are wondering in the parking area while parents are looking for a
parking space.

The city's current tentative plan will practically make Mitchell Park as a main hub of pickleball for the entire Silicon Valley.

I think one of the beauties of Mitchell Park is that it supports diversified needs including library, community meetings,
sports, concerts, kids play, baby strolling, dog walking, etc. It is truly a community park. By adding a few designated
pickleball courts would be fine, but making ten or more pickleball courts would change the nature of the park significantly.


Thank you for reading a long message.


Best Regards,
Yuko Tanaka




                                                                  1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/23/2018 4:30 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                                   Nadia Naik <nadianaik@gmail.com>
Sent:                                   Monday, January 22, 2018 8:49 PM
To:                                     Council, City
Cc:                                     Keene, James; Gitelman, Hillary; Shikada, Ed; info
Subject:                                Jobs Multiplier for Stanford Project



Dear Council Members,

As I mentioned in my comments, the Bay Area Council estimates the job multiplier as 4.3 instead of the 0.73 as
used by Stanford in the GUP.

Below is the article I referenced.

Nadia

http://www.bayareacouncil.org/community_engagement/new-study-for-every-new-high-tech-job-four-more-
created/

NEW STUDY: FOR EVERY NEW HIGH-TECH JOB, FOUR MORE CREATED
When it comes to creating jobs in California across a wide range of income levels and employment sectors, a new report by the Bay
Area Council Economic Institute and commissioned by Engine Advocacy concludes it pays to play to your strengths. For much of the
Bay Area and other regions in the state, high-tech jobs are where the action is. The report – Technology Works: High-Tech
Employment and Wages in the United States – shows that high-tech jobs have been more resilient over the past 10 years to economic
downturns than other private sector industries, pay more, create more indirect jobs by far than any other industry and hold the most
promise for continued growth. We were pleased to hand Governor Brown a copy of the report yesterday fresh off the presses.

Among the key findings:
– Employment growth in tech jobs — defined as those most closely related to science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) —
outpaced gains in all other occupations by a ratio of 27 to 1 from 2001 to 2011.
– For each job created in the high-tech sector, approximately 4.3 jobs are created (multiplier effect) in other local goods and services
sectors across all income groups, including lawyers, dentists, schoolteachers, cooks and retail clerks, among many others.
– The jobs multiplier effect in the high-tech sector is significantly higher than for almost any other sector. By comparison, traditional
manufacturing has a multiplier effect of 1.4 jobs.
Demand for high tech occupations will be considerably stronger than demand for other workers at least through 2020.

Using federal labor statistics, the report also shows that while California continues to dominate in high-tech jobs the Golden State is not
the only game in town. There was sobering news for Silicon Valley, which didn’t crack the top 25 among high-tech regions with the
biggest percentage job gains. High-tech jobs are increasingly popping up in states and regions that historically have not been
associated with high tech, including in the Rust Belt and South. This has important implications at a federal level for how jobs and
economic policy is shaped. But the study’s findings don’t suggest that California should necessarily engage in hand-to-hand combat
with other states for these jobs. According to another recent study by the Economic Institute, how the vast majority of jobs get created
or destroyed in the Bay Area has little to do with companies moving in or out of the region and more to with the survival rate of start-ups
across all sectors. The availability of high-skilled workers, inadequate housing supply that drives up costs and burdensome regulation
have a bigger role in deciding the survival of new firms and job growth than what other states might be doing to lure away companies.




                                                                     1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:22 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         M. Gallagher <writing2win@gmail.com>
Sent:                         Friday, January 19, 2018 3:41 PM
To:                           Council, City
Subject:                      Letter to Council Re: Housing Crisis
Attachments:                  2018 WILPF 1 Jan 19.pdf



Dear Mayor Kniss and Members of the Council:

Thank you for rising to address the affordable housing crisis in Palo Alto,
CA.

To join your efforts, I write on behalf of and with the Women's International
League of Peace and Freedom to ask questions about variables that impact
the availability of affordable housing in Palo Alto, CA.

The signed letter is attached to this letter. I recently observed an outreach
worker in front of the BMW repair shop (corner of Homer and Alma) asking
a street dweller and his small pup to take refuge in shelter. I hope she was
able to convince him being indoors in a shelter is better than not being
indoors in a shelter.

With mercy and hope for the homeless,

Mary Gallagher, B.S.
Content Strategist
650-683-7102

Copyright 2018


Security Alert Notice
The information contained in this e-mail is confidential information, presumed to be virus free, and
intended only for use by the individual or entity named above. Virus protection is the responsibility of
the recipient. If the reader of this email is not the intended recipient, dissemination or distribution is
prohibited. If you have received this email in error, please delete the material from your computer.
Thank you.

                                                     1
  Friday, Ja.nuary 19, 2018




  From        the      desk   of MS.   MARY GALLAGHER

  650-683-7102 * writing2win@gmail.com
  753 Alma St., #226, Palo Alto, CA 94301

 Re: WILPF Low Income Sub-Committee Data Request

 Dear Members of the Palo Alto City Council and others whom it may concern:
 I write this letter on behalf of and with the affordable housing subcommittee of the
 Women's International League of Peace and Freedom (WILPF).

We are pleased Mayor Liz Kniss, Vice Mayor Eric Filseth, and Council member Cory
Wolbach are committed to addressing the affordable housing crisis in Palo Alto, CA.
The availability of ajfordab!e housing depends on the availability of space or vacancies.
Therefore, our questions seek to: (1) Know the availability or supply of living space in
conventional rental housing, commercial buildings, and land and (2) Explore new
models for housing residents in shared-equity housing communities, similar to the
HIP Program in San Mateo, but with residents having an ownership interest.

To this end, we seek the following data from the City Staff:
      1. \Vhat is the current 2016-2017 and projected ratio of housing-to-jobs?
      2. What is the residential and commercial (hotels/motels/inns) vacancy rate for
         long- and short-term rentals?
      3. What land as well as buildings is available for affordable housing?

  In addition, we seek to:
      1. Downzone the City's downtown or--prohibit PC zoning--to protect existing
         housing from commercial development until affordable housing is built.
      2. Have a moratorium of office/ commercial development until there is equity
         between housing and jobs.
      3. Mandate employers provide employee housing as is done in Mountain View.
We appreciate your consideration of our questions and look forward to your reply. If
additional information is needed, please ask.

Respectfully,
~~ ,"(LU«-j''-VL.-
Mary 't1at agher, B.S.
Affordable Housing Advocate
WILPF Sub-committee on Affordable Housing
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/23/2018 4:29 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                                    wolfgangdueregger@gmail.com on behalf of Wolfgang Dueregger
                                         <wolfgang.dueregger@alumni.stanford.edu>
Sent:                                    Monday, January 22, 2018 6:03 PM
To:                                      Council, City
Cc:                                      evergreen-park-discuss@yahoogroups.com; Paul & Karen Machado; Christian Pease;
                                         Tommy Derrick; Carol Scott; David Schrom; DuBois, Tom; Filseth, Eric (external); Lydia
                                         Kou; Neilson Buchanan; Arthur Keller; Patrick Slattery; Irene Au
Subject:                                 new 7 floor parking garage in Cal Ave Business District (on tonight's agenda)


Dear City Council,

as a resident of Evergreen Park I am writing to you today to stick to your own promise last year to go "big" on the new parking garage, i.e. 2
floors underground and 5 floors above ground. There should be no violation of the existing height limit either.

You know very well that the whole parking situation around Cal Ave is very dire, and local businesses have urged you together with us
residents to build a new garage so that some relief will be possible,

We are talking about to keep the current parking situation (without any reduction in floors of the planned garage) somewhat under control
since numerous new developments are starting and the whole parking situation will get worse. A few years back, downtown got 3 big
garages, and the "2nd" downtown does not "qualify" for at least a SINGLE ONE?

we hope that you stick to your promise and words and build the garage with 7 floors (2 underground and 5 above ground).

To cut away a whole floor is slap into the face of the whole Cal Ave Business District, its merchants, patrons and neighbors alike.

if you need the money for the police station, then rethink the design of the police station. But you cannot cannibalize instead an approved
project like the new garage building that was presented to businesses and neighbors as a "done" and "great deal" for everybody.

thanks

Wolfgang Dueregger




                                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/25/2018 6:53 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                             ROBERT HALLEWELL <hallewell@icloud.com>
Sent:                             Wednesday, January 24, 2018 11:56 AM
To:                               Library, Pa
Cc:                               Council, City
Subject:                          NEW WEBSITE WORSE FOR LINK PLUS?



Puzzled by what seems a less good PA library website.

For example previously if I searched for a book and it was not available within the PA libraries then there was a
direct link to Link Plus.

Now it seems you have to start all over again, or am I missing something?

Surely this is a case where the library has gone against the if it ain't broke... rule.

And presumably the redo cost us all quite a lot of $.

sincerely, Robert Hallewell


Dr. Robert Hallewell
Community Center District




                                                           1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/23/2018 4:30 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Diane Schiano <dianejschiano@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Tuesday, January 23, 2018 11:18 AM
To:                             Michael Callagy; Don Horsley; Steve Monowitz; Diana Shu; Joe Lo Coco; Warren
                                Slocum; Raymond Mueller; Kirsten Keith; potahki@menlopark.org; Catherine Carlton; R.
                                CLINE; supervisor.simitian@bos.sccgov.org; Council, City
Subject:                        Objections to Stanford's GUP; implications for SWA and Alpine Road x Piers Lane
                                traffic, congestion, parking
Attachments:                    IMG-1197.JPG; IMG-1198.JPG



Hello,
   I am writing for myself, my husband, Rick Voreck, and my son, Christopher Voreck (age 19). We live at 2673
Alpine Road, which is located directly at the Piers Lane x Alpine Road intersection in unincorporated San Mateo
County. We are part of the neighborhood known as Stanford Weekend Acres. We experience intense traffic
congestion and speeding problems (depending on the time of day and day of week) every day, just trying to get out
of our driveway. The "informal parking" of so many cars right above our property (as part of an easement, in fact)
so that people can walk in the Stanford Open Space magnifies the problem, adding congestion and chaos. There
are times when a left turn--and sometimes even a right turn--from Piers onto Alpine will take 10 minutes!
  We have read summaries and reviews of the proposed Stanford GUP and are extremely concerned about its
impact on us, on our neighborhood, and on other neighborhoods in the area surrounding Stanford.
  We are discouraged by Stanford's inclusion of 2.275 million square of feet of academic and
academic support space and 3,150 housing units, translating to a population expansion of
over 9,600 people in this area.
   The traffic situation on Alpine Road after 280 and up to Junipero Serra is already nearly untenable,
and this will only make it worse. We have complained and asked for mitigations in various ways and
to various agencies...when we were notified (which has not always been the case). Our concern is
especially great after Stanford's previous GUP, which was supposed to have no net increase in
traffic. BULLSHIT! And the misleading way in which mitigation clauses were interpreted so as to
push for expansion of public roads near the Stanford Open Space--in San Mateo as well as Santa
Clara counties--rather than the "paths" in the Open Space, which was clearly the intent. BULLSHIT
ON TOP OF BULLSHIT!
   More generally, we agree with Peter Drekmeier that Stanford should be required to specify a
maximum build-out, which should be debated by the public.
   We agree with the Objections to the GUP that have been presented by many before us, including,
most notably, Janet Davis, also of Stanford Weekend Acres./
I've pasted some of her messages, including a very compelling video of what goes on at our
intersection regularly, below. I've also attached some photos I've taken, but unfortunately, the
congestion that makes turning so difficult is hard to photograph, especially now that "Keep Open"
notices have been painted on the street. (These are somewhat helpful, but not enough). But the fact
that cars are stacked up onto 280 at our exit, which is common knowledge, should be compelling
enough.
    The untenable parking and congestion problems we experience are directly due to Stanford.
Parking should not be permitted, or should be highly regulared, iat this intersection. We'd love to
have a stop light or stop sign, and have requested this many times. Anything else that could be done
to mitigate these problems would be appreciated.
                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/23/2018 4:30 PM




...


Janet Davis <jadjadjad@sbcglobal.net

Re: Alpine Road problems by Piers Lane
Jan 18 (5 days ago)
.
 to Diana, Michael, Don, Rick, me, Dave, John, Christina, Jim, Rebecca, Robert, Susie

Gunter took some pictures of the problems caused by parking for the Dish back entrance last weekend (Piers
and Ansel Lanes). My observation has been that this happens in the early mornings and is especially bad when
the weather is good. What you do not see in his pictures (see below) are all the cars parked on Ansel Lane, the
occupants of which also race across the road. Note all the cyclists that have to venture out into the vehicle lanes
and the (one of many) cars doing a U-turn from the Dish to head back towards I-280. I think that it would be
safer if there were to be NO PARKING zone along the Webb Ranch side of Alpine, and (if possible) some
means to prevent U-turns across traffic from Piers Lane. Diana Shu suggested that I ask Stanford to initiate a
NO PARKING request which I will do. It would be helpful to get input from cyclists since this problem is just
before the I-280 on and off ramps where a cyclist was killed a couple of years ago, and where the traffic headed
towards Menlo Park is often going at freeway speed - despite the 35 mph limit! It would also be helpful if the
CHP and Sheriff could focus on this area periodically.

Produce1.mp4




                                             Produce1.mp4
                                             MP4 File




>>>>>>>>>

      Janet Davis


      to David, Don, Michael, Warren, Christina, Diana, Peter, Kirsten, Raymond, Catherine, CLINE, Jim, supervisor.sim


                                                         2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/23/2018 4:30 PM
                                               STANFORD UNIVERSITY GUP
                                          FURTHER OBJECTION TO TRAFFIC IMPACT
                                              ON ALPINE AND NEARBY ROADS

    Recent Events:
    Stanford Weekend Acres [SWA] is an old subdivision in San Mateo County, adjacent to Stanford University and sq
    between San Francisquito Creek and Alpine Road; home to several hundred people. These residents have been desp
    to get some improvements with respect to the traffic congestion and dangers caused largely by Stanford commuters
    suppliers. The same is true for the many people residing along Santa Cruz Ave, Alameda and side streets, both with
    county jurisdiction and the City of Menlo Park. The data presented by the GUP as to traffic and purported public tr
    inaccurate and completely misrepresents the situation.

    What the County and City Have Been Doing:

    Santa Cruz/Alameda: A task force has been set up that meets to discuss potential mitigations. This involves consid
    manpower by the agencies concerned as well as community effort. There is a combined Enforcement Unit for the A
    Cruz Area which adds to the person power burden. The sheriff and the CHP installed portable radar trackers. The s
    reduced to 25 mph to reduce accidents, and this also involves extra person power to monitor. There have been seve
    misses” with respect to children on the route to La Entrada. The senior residents of Menlo Commons have experien
    incidents of vehicles bound for Stanford using the middle access lane outside their building as an additional means
    turn to get to the Hospitals. To resolve this it is going to take engineering time and equipment to mitigate. The sen
    also experiencing dangers with respect to their crosswalk in front of the Menlo Commons because of all the traffic g
    from the hospitals. The only way this can be remedied is by a pedestrian activated crossing light and restriping, wh
    expensive.

    Alpine Road: Residents of SWA are virtual prisoners in their homes at various times of the day owing to Stanford
    suppliers. Traffic ignores the STOP signs for the school buses and drivers overtake in the oncoming lane in their ha
    Stanford. Cars have been using the bike lane and the pedestrian path as a secondary vehicular lane, and parents are
    lives when walking their kids to the school bus stop. There have been several accidents in the vicinity of Wildwood
    least a few of those were caused by documented SU employees.

    What the county has done recently to help with the traffic situation along Alpine:
    There have been several county sponsored community meetings
    The STOP signs were replaced with larger ones at I-280 and “Botts'-dots” added to reduce speed
    Engineering studies were undertaken of Alpine traffic
    The speed limit was reduced to 35 mph
    They have deployed extra sheriff patrols (assisted by the CHP) involving several vehicles and motor cycle units on
    Solar powered radar equipment has been installed
    Solar powered speed checking devices have also been installed along the road
    Extra white lines have been installed to delineate the bike and pedestrian lanes
    “Bots” have been installed to emphasize bike lanes
    Some plastic “Stanchions” have been installed (in lieu of steel barricades) to better mark the bike lanes in places. M
    especially near Wildwood, and a better solution is needed to protect cars going in and out of the frontage road.
    Traffic chaos recently occurred at Webb Ranch (a Stanford lessee) because of their Christmas Tree lot and the coun
    Enforcement unit issued a violation because there was no permit, and traffic was making a U-turn across Alpine by
    ramp.
    The bizarre parking at the Dish back entrance at Piers Lane requires both traffic enforcement and sheriff monitoring
    proliferation of thefts from those parked vehicles.

    FINANCIAL IMPACT OF THE ABOVE ON SAN MATEO COUNTY TAX PAYERS:
                                                       3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/23/2018 4:30 PM
    All of the above costs money that could be used by the county for other improvements. Obviously Stanford is not t
    generator of traffic, but in this area of San Mateo it is the dominant cause of problems for San Mateo county residen
    constant flow of large trucks must have a significant detrimental impact on Alpine road, which is just not suitable fo
    and type of traffic to and from Stanford facilities.

    Attached are a few pictures of the engineering improvements that San Mateo County Public works has financed. A
    cannot support any additional traffic to and from Stanford facilities, and given the complete dearth of public transp
    area apart from school buses, the “No New Net Trips” mantra is totally meaningless with respect to San Mateo Cou
    addition to the above, there are huge problems within the City of Menlo Park’s jurisdiction along Alpine, Santa Cru
    and Alameda: all of which are presently, and will in the future, cost that City a lot of money to remedy.

    CONCLUSION:
    The massive expansion planned by the GUP is unwarranted and cannot be supported by the present infrastru
    Mateo County and the City of Menlo Park. Even with a more moderate rate of growth, some large infusions
    engineering talent are needed to make any quality of life sustainable for local residents.

    6 Attachments



>>>>>
From: Janet Davis <jadjadjad@sbcglobal.net>
To: David Rader <david.rader@pln.sccgov.org>
Sent: Saturday, November 18, 2017 1:04 PM
Subject: OPPOSITION TO STANFORD'S 2018 GUP

                            MY PERSONAL EXPERIENCE RELATED TO STANFORD DEVELOPMENTS
                                         RELATIVE TO ITS PROPOSED 2018 GUP

BASIC PROBLEMS WITH THE GUP:
It only deals with the specifically and narrowly defined core academic boundary, totally ignoring the cumulative impac
surrounding area, of Stanford build out and proposed projects at, for example:
       The massive Hospitals rebuilding,
       Ronald McDonald expanded housing,
       The Shopping Center additions,
       The Page Mill industrial park rebuilding,
       The developments along El Camino Real in Menlo Park,
       The athletic facilities that attract thousands of fans,
       The Golf Course and its catering operation,
       2131 Sand Hill and other leasehold facilities along Sand Hill (including the Rosewood Hotel),
       The Quarry Road project,
       The huge developments in the Arastradero/Coyote Hills area,
       The various satellite functions such as the Eye Center on Embarcadero East, the Imaging Center on Sherman Ave,
       The huge Redwood City Campus, or
       The expansion at SLAC (including the Guest House).
All but two of the above are either in San Mateo county and/or require I-280 or San Mateo Road access.
This GUP also focuses almost exclusively on Santa Clara County impact, ignoring the consequences in Menlo Park, L
Valley, Atherton, and Redwood City: all in San Mateo County, which is going to bear the brunt of the consequences from
development.

This defeats the entire purpose of CEQA under Section 15064.3 which seeks to examine the cumulative effect of a proje
impact on the surrounding communities. The GUP is also flawed in that it uses the discredited “No New Net Trips” fi
not deal with issues area by area. For example, a commute credit may be assessed in one area, leading to added traffic in
                                                                 4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/23/2018 4:30 PM
fact that under the GUP Stanford is proposing to build 2000 parking spots in the core academic boundary belies the u
assertion that there will be no new net trips!. Mr. Girard of the Santa Clara Planning Dept. at the Menlo Park meeting
15 attempted to explain this away by saying that the parking spaces might be used for storage. This is just not credible.
2,275,000 extra sq. ft. of facilities and at least 10,577 additional workers, adding that there will be more vendors, deliver
conferences and tours only adds to the lack of credibility of the assertion. An early summary of the GUP stated that the c
currently has around 500,000 visitors annually.

The traffic data is also tabulated via the VMT method [Vehicle Miles traveled] (rather than the locally applied LOS me
the patently obvious fact that traffic in the vicinity of the university is over-capacity. This is largely due to the university
expansion, and the fact that the housing/jobs imbalance (also accentuated by the university’s constant construction) is c
of its lower income employees and other local workers who cannot afford local housing prices, to commute long distanc
the traffic woes.

Santa Clara County is not going to get much in the way of property taxes from all this development and San Mateo Coun
bear the brunt of much of the resulting impact.

BASIS FOR MY OBSERVATIONS:
I have lived at 2455 Alpine, Menlo Park, for 50+ years (before the 280 freeway was built, before Sand Hill was widened
the right turn lane was added to the Alpine/Junipero Serra intersection). I drive back and forth along Santa Cruz and Ala
times a day and often drive down Junipero Serra to Los Altos, as well as down Alpine to Ladera and Portola Valley. I a
drive up and down Sand Hill Road and many of the streets that cross Santa Cruz and Alameda, and along Avy and Mont
Hill. Therefore I have extensive personal knowledge, over many years, of the traffic conditions that have existed, and p
in the entire area around West Menlo Park, into Redwood City and south to Los Altos. I am also part of a County of San
Force that is addressing the safety aspects of all modes of traffic (cars/bikes/pedestrian/public transportation) in the vicin
Hill/Santa Cruz intersection. Considerable research has been done by local residents and the county in this area and it ca
at: https://publicworks.smcgov.org/santa-cruz-avenue-corridor-study.
Particular attention should be paid to the resident-drafted documents at Univ.park.org which list the problems and pote
mitigations for the drastically increased traffic being experienced in the area of the Sand Hill intersection. That site cont
photographs and documents 21 accidents in the last year. There have been multiple meetings with County and City offic
Sheriff, MPPD, CHP and the Fire District in the search for solutions.

However, the basic problem is that all the roads surrounding the Stanford Campus are overloaded to beyond saturation p
fact that there is virtually no public transportation apart from school day bus service for the local high school. Also, I ha
traffic at various times of day and know that the vast majority of it goes to, or comes from, Stanford facilities.

WHAT HAS HAPPENED TO TRAFFIC, PARTICULARLY SINCE 2000:
Alpine Road background:
Alpine Road is a narrow, two lane road with several blind curves that has speed limit of 35 mph. Back in 2000 it was est
carried over 20,000 vehicles/day. This number has increased very significantly. It is bounded on the west side by very s
subject to erosion. On the east side, below the level of the road is the Stanford Weekend subdivision with around 150 ho
the San Francisquito Creek, which frequently floods. Also, late in the evening and at night, deer frequently cross Alpine
lands on the east to SLAC on the west side. On the West side (owned by Stanford) there are grazing fields, an equine ho
horse barn. These facilities frequently have slow moving agricultural vehicles such as tractors, or trailers with 12-16 hor
and going. There are no traffic lights.

On the East side there are several cul de sacs as well as individual driveways exiting directly onto Alpine. Currently the
substantial remedial bank construction to fix drastic subsidence of the banks endangering major gas and water lines. In t
have been several accidents involving vehicles going over the creek embankment. There is no drainage system in this ar
flows off the westerly hills towards the creek making winter driving especially hazardous during inclement weather. Ot

                                                          5
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/23/2018 4:30 PM
include the back entrance to the Stanford dish which attracts numerous vehicles that park (legally and illegally) on both
road, the back entrance to the Hewlett Foundation and the back entrance to SLAC: all of which cause significant safety p

Law enforcement along Alpine is virtually nonexistent because it is the responsibility of the understaffed CHP. Becaus
of enforcement and nonexistence of traffic lights, commercial vehicles especially, opt for Alpine over Sand Hill, even so
their destination is Sand Hill Road. During Stanford’s recent hospital construction neighbors counted double semi dump
rate of one every 17 seconds for a period of time.

There are no traffic lights that would allow vehicles to platoon along Alpine, affording residents an opportunity egress/
from their property. The traffic into Piers and Ansel Lanes (Stanford lands) is sufficient to fit the State’s warrant require
light, but absent costly reconfiguration of the 280 on/off ramps, this would be counterproductive for throughput.

When Alpine is not gridlocked, it is a speedway, despite law enforcement’s best efforts. San Mateo County has recently
installing KEEP CLEAR signs and radar speed signs to try and control the traffic, which has had a less than stellar resul

Changes in Traffic Patterns Near Campus and Results Thereof:
My observation has been that in the last 10-17 years, the volume of vehicles has probably doubled between 280 and J
and that there has been a significant increase in construction and service vehicles such as flatbeds, double semi dump tru
trucks, delivery vans, etc., much of which comes and goes to University sites.

Morning Problems on Alpine/Sand Hill/Santa Cruz Heading Towards Stanford :
(I know that the majority of vehicles in the morning head towards Campus Drive West, the Golf Course, or the Hospital
have frequently followed them and, with respect to construction vehicles, have even taken some of their license no’s and
them to Stanford.) Alpine never used to be a truck route and was not so indicated on Stanford’s website. Around the tim
Hill widening it was so designated, despite the fact that the entire length of Junipero Serra (even between Alpine and Ca
West) is signed, banning all trucks over 7 tons.

In the morning the vehicular onslaught on Alpine now starts around 5 a.m. By around 7:15 a.m. cars are bumper to bump
along the freeway from both the north and south, and this gridlock continues all the way down Alpine, thence down Juni
Campus Drive West and beyond, and down Sand Hill to the Hospital. Motorcyclists, trying to avoid the back-up, freque
bike lane. Some drivers even try to overtake in the bike lane and, sometimes, even on the path.

The two far right lanes at the Alpine/Junipero Serra intersection stretch back the full length of the turn lane, and traffic, w
bumper to bumper, goes all the way back to 280. I have great difficulty getting out of my driveway to turn right until ar
a.m. A left turn is almost impossible, requiring me to drive to Sand Hill to make a U-turn. Because of this back up, driv
wishing to go to Santa Cruz or Alameda opt for the left hand lane to get through the Alpine light (otherwise one has to w
iterations to go through this light).

Once in the area between the Alpine and the Sand Hill lights, the entire right hand lane and bike lane is frequently bloc
vehicles trying to get to the hospital. This has a number of consequences:

      The bike lane is totally blocked, so many cyclists from Alpine heading towards Santa Cruz Ave, race down the tra
cantilevered section making it too dangerous for pedestrians and less proficient cyclists. There have been several accide
has become too dangerous for Stanford Weekend Acres (SWA) children to walk to La Entrada school, so their parents d
creating more traffic.
      Other cyclists heading towards Santa Cruz, Alameda or upper Sand Hill weave in and out of the lanes of traffic jo
position, resulting in many near misses
      Cars waiting at the Sand Hill intersection to make a right turn towards the hospital, block cyclists coming from up
road because they are parked over the entrance to the trail going along the golf course and the actual bike lane on the roa

                                                          6
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/23/2018 4:30 PM

       Vehicles coming north from Junipero Serra hoping to cross the two lanes of traffic between the two intersections
left turn towards SLAC, are totally blocked by the queueing vehicles in the right hand lane, and traffic backs up along J
       When the light is RED at Sand Hill, those drivers wanting to make a right turn from the area between the intersec
the hospital, rarely stop which has resulted in many near misses. (The same is true with respect to the red light at the op
of Santa Cruz and Sand Hill where drivers going from Santa Cruz to upper Sand Hill, breeze through the red light)
       Drivers aiming for Downtown Menlo Park after crossing Sand Hill then have to change lanes within the one block
Sand Hill and the juncture of Santa Cruz and Alameda. I have seen as many as 7 lane changes in that one block. This is
dangerous (especially for cyclists because there is no bike lane) since the east side of that block of Santa Cruz is lined w
driveways, many of which are well below street level. In the past year there have been 21 accidents in the immediate vic
       Since there are no Stanford signs indicating the route to the hospitals, many drivers are confused and end up in th
lanes instead of the right hand lanes. Many of them subsequently veer across all the lanes to make the right turn lane, cr
more hazards.
       The vehicle lane changes in the first block of Santa Cruz after the Sand Hill intersection, make it virtually imposs
homeowners along that block to exit or enter their driveways.
       Another problem with the jammed Sand Hill intersection is that many commuters try to avoid it by cutting throug
Way which is a very narrow residential street.

In the early morning, because of the increase in traffic, it sometimes takes me 45-50 mins. to get to the Menlo Park Burg
Center instead of the 10 mins it should take me. If I try to come home before 10:30 a.m., I am stuck in the middle of Alp
vehicles careening around me to the right, until some kindly soul allows me to make a left turn into my driveway. This i
every other SWA resident along Alpine.

Vehicles Heading South towards Campus Drive West from Sand Hill or from Alameda:
In the morning there is heavy traffic. There is a problem with the merge lane immediately south of the Sand Hill/Santa C
intersection in that vehicles try to overtake on the inside because of congestion. This occurs mornings and evenings.

Morning Problems with Alameda
Because of the access problems with respect to 280, Alameda becomes jammed with traffic, much of which is trying to g
Stanford. This creates a major problem for example, for those 174 residents of Menlo Commons trying to exit or enter t
condominium development or for other University Park residents to access Alameda/Santa Cruz. Traffic is often so hea
drivers intent on getting to the hospital use the middle turn lane to overtake traffic on the inside to get ahead in the line t
to the hospital. This endangers residents of Menlo Commons trying to make a left turn to get to downtown Menlo Park.

Evening Problems with Alameda
Because it is so difficult to access I-280, traffic (mostly from Stanford facilities) jams Alameda from Sand Hill, through
Woodside Road in Redwood City.

Evening Problems on Alpine/Santa Cruz/Sand Hill
“Rush Hour” now starts around 3:15 p.m. which seems to coincide with some kind of shift change at the hospital since
pouring out of Pasteur Drive and head towards Sand Hill or Alpine. Sand Hill becomes a virtual parking lot from Pasteu
280. Alpine Road is also jammed from the Sand Hill/Alpine intersections to 280. This makes it almost impossible for S
to make a left turn onto Alpine.
Another problem involves vehicles exiting the back entrance of the Hewlett Foundation and making a highly perilous an
left U-turn to get to Junipero Serra. Some of these vehicles have the Stanford logo on their side.

Alameda is the location of a MPFD station. They are the first responders to any emergency in the West MP area, SWA
accidents on 280. The fire engine and ambulances are often blocked by the traffic jamming the intersections and the roa
Alameda to 280. Sometimes they have to use the residential Avy, Monte Rosa and Sharon Park roads to get better acces

Morning Problems on Junipero Serra
                                                          7
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/23/2018 4:30 PM

Traffic is usually solidly blocked from Alpine to Campus Drive West and heavy all the way to Page Mill.
Evening Problems on Junipero Serra
Traffic heading south to the Page Mill 280 entrance is very heavy from Campus Drive West and is virtually a parking lo
Stanford Ave to Page Mill. Traffic heading north to the Alpine 280 entrance or towards Alameda, is also frequently a vi
lot from Campus Drive East.

Problems on Avy/Monte Rosa
This has become a cut through route to and from 280 for traffic trying to avoid some of the back-up problems. This traf
exceptionally fast and is a danger to local residents and to students at Philipps Brooks School.

Traffic on ECR in San Mateo County
In the morning it is bumper to bumper from Woodside road to the university. In the evening, the reverse is true.

Cyclist/Pedestrian Problems Coming or going to Stanford
There is no pedestrian crossing on Junipero Serra or at the Alpine intersection. This means that people walking to and fr
Drive West have no safe way to cross Junipero Serra to get to SWA because of traffic. If they want to go from Junipero
Menlo Park they have to walk in the bike lane over the creek, which is often blocked by cars. If cyclist commuters want
Campus Drive West to SWA homes there is no safe way to cross Alpine Road because of the increased traffic causing m
speed bikers to use the footpath along SWA which is extremely perilous for residents.
The brick surface surrounding the Buck Estate is blocked by metal rails for pedestrian travel, yet this is used by people c
the Hewlett Foundation trying to walk around the corner to Safeway on Sand Hill road. If there were a pedestrian crossi
Alpine/Junipero Serra intersection this would mean that this path could be used by local residents to avoid the dangers o
and non ADA compliant “trail” under the cantilevered section between the two intersections.

HOUSING ISSUES IN THE VICINITY OF THE UNIVERSITY:
Housing affordability is an issue throughout the State. However, in the vicinity of the university this is particularly evid
many visiting scholars requiring short term rentals and postgraduates seeking leased accommodations. Demand has driv
increased the number of “doubled up” lessees, and created a burgeoning AirBnB industry which will only add to traffic w
future. It has altered the character of SWA from an almost exclusively owner occupied residential neighborhood to a mo
rental market.

HOW THE UNIVERSITY’S GROWTH AFFECTS MY & OTHER RESIDENTS’ QUALITY OF LIFE
I appreciate the great medical facilities and the increased diversity in my neighborhood, but it has come at the expense o
of the quality of life, especially related to traffic issues, a summary of which entails:
       Inability to get in and out of my driveway because of traffic, most of which is Stanford based
       Danger on the road because of traffic congestion and constant fear of an accident
       The neighborhood path in SWA has become too dangerous to use because of cars veering onto it, and because cy
both directions
       The “trail” put in by Stanford that runs under the cantilevered section of Junipero Serra/Santa Cruz is non ADA c
that together with the excessive use by high speed cyclists has made it too dangerous for safe pedestrian travel.
       Closing down of Webb Ranch Fruit Stand because of dangerous traffic means that fresh produce is no longer so e
       Removal of bus stop from Alpine because it was too dangerous to use because of added traffic
       Failure of traffic to stop for school bus at Stowe and Bishop which means that commuters cross the yellow line in
traffic to get to their destination. This also happens on Garbage days, which is extremely perilous for local residents and
commuters. When cars do stop for these vehicles they back up and block the KEEP CLEAR zones making it impossible
out of my driveway
       Necessity of traveling out of my way to make a safe U-turn at Sand Hill in order to drive to Portola Valley
       Enormous amount of noise from the increased traffic most of which is destined for Stanford
                                                        8
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/23/2018 4:30 PM

       Oily storm water residue from excessive number of vehicles on Alpine, most going to or from Stanford
       Heavy odor of diesel from the many construction trucks going to and from Stanford and other locations
       Increase in number of student renters who often are very noisy compared to average families
       Increase in amount of time it takes to get anywhere because of traffic in West Menlo Park
       Increase in number of accidents and the associated noise from sirens
       Massive increase in construction trucks, many going to Stanford
       Difficulty in negotiating route to the hospital, especially to the ER when it has become necessary because of lack
traffic back ups
       Increase in tour buses using Alpine to get to and from campus
       Increase in vehicles on Alpine carrying fans to athletic events, some of whom are careless drivers
       Being verbally abused or flipped off by commuters angry that I am trying to enter or exit my driveway
       Increase in noise from horns, and angry commuter/cyclist interactions on Alpine
       Observed increase in number of killed wildlife and domestic pets along Alpine because of increased traffic
       The enormous amount of time and effort it has taken me and other neighbors to work with the county (and Stanfo
get some traffic mitigations.

POSSIBLE MITIGATIONS:
Traffic
Physical mitigations to deal with traffic have limited potential. What is needed is better mass transit options from 280 to
Campus. This could take the form of:
       a park and ride lot near 280
       Commuter buses from San Jose via I-280
       Shuttle extensions from Ladera, Portola Valley and Woodside
       Better coordination with Samtrans to provide effective service in the San Mateo county area
       Given the huge increase in traffic to and from campus and the hospitals from I-280, eventually there will have to
dedicated tunnel from 280 to Campus
There are some “low hanging fruit” safety mitigations that could be undertaken. Many are listed in the UnivPark.org
document. Below are some other suggestions that would make travel safer for all:
       Crosswalks on Junipero Serra and Alpine
       Removal of the bulb out between the Alpine and Sand Hill intersections that prevents more than one vehicle at a t
from Junipero Serra to the left turn lane at Sand Hill
       Addressing the ADA compliance problems of the “trail” from Alpine to Sand Hill and install speed limit signs for
that trail
       Engineering erosion and storm water solutions for the trail under the cantilevered section of the trail, making it sa
pedestrians and cyclists. Also investigate the possibility of engineering a way for pedestrians coming from Junipero Ser
get down the incline at the start of the bike lane, so that they do not have to walk in the bike lane and get hit by cars.
       Work with San Mateo County and Caltrans to better engineer the 280 on/off ramps to avoid the mass confusion a
       Provide pullover setbacks and shelters for the school bus stops at Stowe and Bishop so that the parents are not fea
safety
       Put some barricades along Alpine by Wildwood Lane to protect pedestrians from the constant problem of cars, tru
motorbikes from driving in the bike lane and on the path
       Put some barrier at the Hewlett Foundation back gate to prevent cars making U-turns there
       Install legible illuminated signs indicating routes to hospitals, especially the ER.
       Work with Samtrans to get better public transit in West Menlo Park. There is a special need to better organize w
Atherton H.S. kids to get home instead of the bus dropping them off at Safeway so that their parents have to drive over t
       Investigate feasibility of a park and ride near I-280
       Provide shuttle service in W. Menlo Park, Ladera and Portola Valley where many Stanford community live, and w
numerous Stanford associated facilities
                                                         9
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/23/2018 4:30 PM

      Investigate the possibility of commute vehicles along the 280 corridor
      Eliminate double semi dump trucks from Alpine Road since these vehicles cannot stop easily in a short distance a
several blind corners. Also, the driver has little control over the back semi and it strays into the bike lane. These vehicle
trouble negotiating the traffic light at the Alpine intersection and the back trailer runs over the brick base to the light, nar
cars waiting in the left hand lane. They also are too big to safely negotiate the turn from Alpine to Junipero Serra withou
the bike lane.
      Have some kind of monitoring/permitting system for construction trucks. Many of them speed because apparentl
by the number of loads.
      Install some arrows at the junction of Sand Hill where the lane turns under the Buck Estate. When traffic is heav
much lane jockeying here and cars do not realize that the merge lane is not a separate traffic lane. This causes them to in
lane which is hazardous for cyclists
      Enlarge the merge lane at the beginning of Alpine Road by the Buck Estate since this is a huge hazard for cars an
hour
      Enlarge the bike lane heading towards Portola Valley on the West side of Alpine within the jurisdiction of Menlo
unduly narrow and at one point there is a slotted lane that takes up most of the bike lane. Also provide better maintenan
trimming foliage that hits taller cyclists.
      Restrict access/parking to the back entrance to the Dish on Alpine road since it causes major traffic safety problem
since it is right next to the 280 off ramp.
      Engineer some way to deal with the extreme dangers to cyclists in between the Sand Hill and Alpine intersections
coming from Santa Cruz or upper Sand Hill trying to get to Junipero Serra swerve in between cars in an ultrahazardous f
major danger exists because the middle lane at the Alpine traffic light allows cars to go straight or make a left hand turn.
numerous near fatalities where the cyclist is turning left, but the car behind him accelerates forward. The middle lane
should ONLY BE LEFT TURN. This should not affect throughput since there is only a short space between the two i
that accommodates only a few vehicles.

Housing:
Additional housing opportunities for lower income staff need to be provided on or near the core campus or other comme
to lessen the need for lengthy commutes via I-280 from San Jose, Daly City and other less expensive housing areas. The
additional opportunities, and desperate need for low income housing (not necessarily restricted to the Stanford communi
provided in North Fair Oaks. The site at 2131 Sand Hill would be better used as housing even if it is low density as curr
the county.

CONCLUSION
This GUP ignores blatant significant negative impacts of the proposed developments with respect to the housing/jobs imbalance an
impact. It also fails to provide accurate information as to bicycle, pedestrian and public transportation available on the San Mateo C
of area. In recent years most of the commercial development on Stanford lands has occurred either in San Mateo County or at sites
I-280 which has created an undue burden on West Menlo Park in particular, negatively affecting many aspects of our quality of life

--



Diane J. Schiano
https://sites.google.com/site/dianejschiano/




                                                             10
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/23/2018 4:29 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Barry M Katz <bkatz@stanford.edu>
Sent:                              Monday, January 22, 2018 6:26 PM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           Parking Garage, California Ave. district



To the City Council):

My two cents: I was horrified to read reports of the demands of local merchants for more parking spaces and
fewer human (mixed use amenities. As a resident of the Ventura neighborhood for whom Caliofrnia Avenue
has been a regular destination for three decades, I would respectufully remind proprietors that NOT ONE
AUTOMOBILE has even shopped in your stores, engaged your services, or dined in your restaurants. NOT
ONE. EVER. To the best of my knowledge, it is PEOPLE who support these business, without exception.
Making the Cal. Ave. district more car-friendly and less people-friendly is exactly the wrong approach. Aside
from flying in the face of progressive efforts worldwide to humanize our cities, it is bad for business.

Barry Katz
Consulting Professor, Design Group
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Stanford University
m: 650.644-8697




                                                             1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/23/2018 4:33 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Lucinda Lenicheck <lblenicheck@yahoo.com>
Sent:                              Tuesday, January 23, 2018 2:15 PM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           Parking garage/CA Ave. proposal on agenda TONIGHT




Dear City Council,

Please do nothing to change the plans for the prospective parking garage serving the California Ave. Business district
AND thereby serving all the residential neighborhoods abutting that district.

To quote from a neighbor: as a resident of Evergreen Park I am writing to you today to stick to your own promise last
year to go "big" on the new parking garage, i.e. 2 floors underground and 5 floors above ground. There should be no
violation of the existing height limit either.

You know very well that the whole parking situation around Cal Ave is very dire, and local businesses have urged you
together with us residents to build a new garage so that some relief will be possible,

We are talking about to keep the current parking situation (without any reduction in floors of the planned garage)
somewhat under control since numerous new developments are starting and the whole parking situation will get worse.
A few years back, downtown got 3 big garages, and the "2nd" downtown does not "qualify" for at least a SINGLE ONE?

We hope that you stick to your promise and words and build the garage with 7 floors (2 underground and 5 above
ground).

To cut away a whole floor is slap into the face of the whole Cal Ave Business District, its merchants, patrons and
neighbors alike.

If you need the money for the police station, then the design of the police station. But you cannot cannibalize instead an
approved project like the new garage building that was presented to businesses and neighbors as a "done" and "great
deal" for everybody.

Please do not alter the parking garage plans! Find your cost savings elsewhere!

Thank you,
Lucinda Breed Lenicheck
342 Oxford Ave.




                                                             1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/23/2018 4:32 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                               J <jtseng88@gmail.com>
Sent:                               Tuesday, January 23, 2018 2:11 PM
To:                                 Howard, Adam; Council, City; ParkRec Commission
Subject:                            Parks and Rec Master Plan comment


Hi City Council and Parks and Recreation Commission Members,

We wanted to write in support of the plan to add permanent pickleball courts to Mitchell Park.

Since starting our first pickleball game at the volunteer run, drop‐in temporary courts on weekends at Mitchell Park a
couple of years ago, we’ve experienced the fun and camaraderie of the sport of pickleball and witnessed the enormous
numbers of people gathering to play whenever the temporary nets are put up.

Pickleball will increasingly grow in popularity in the future. The reality, more importantly, is that it is an exceedingly
popular sport today.

My husband and two children (high school and elementary aged students) have been long‐time users of the tennis
courts and outdoor racquetball courts at Mitchell Park. We’ve taken a lot of tennis lessons for many years through the
City of Palo Alto’s Enjoy program. We are by no means weighing tennis against pickleball, or vice versa. That is a very
unfortunately and unnecessarily adversarial pairing. We are blessed in this city to have plenty of public space for tennis,
pickleball and other enjoyable sports.

In our opinions, there are plenty of tennis court options throughout the city parks and on public school campuses. But
there are very few pickleball opportunities and none that are financially supported by the city of Palo Alto. The fact that
a group of volunteers are willing to purchase, maintain and put up pickleball nets every week is a wonderful example of
community members making the game possible for others. The city has benefitted from the efforts of these volunteers
by virtue of their monetary and time contributions.

Now, it’s time for the city to step up. Palo Alto should support the sport that its residents desire. I would like to see
taxpayer dollars fund public courts, so that the courts are open and available to all and are not a persistent burden on a
group of volunteers. Our family would play outdoors more frequently if the city were to erect permanent pickleball
courts in lighted areas (allowing for after work play).

Please make permanent pickleball courts at Mitchell Park, and at other city parks, a reality for the City of Palo Alto and
its residents.

Best regards,

Jocelyn and Ben Tseng
Wilkie Ct.
Palo Alto




                                                               1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 4:30 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                             mwilliams <moniwilliams@yahoo.com>
Sent:                             Monday, January 22, 2018 4:01 PM
To:                               Council, City; ParkRec Commission; Howard, Adam
Subject:                          Photos of Pickleball on Sunday at Mitchell Park


A total of 92 people played drop-in pickleball at Mitchell Park yesterday, Sunday. These photos were taken when all 11
courts were filled with 4 to a court (44), and 27 players were waiting.

Monica Engel Williams




                                                           1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 4:30 PM




                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:41 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Mark Nadim <marknadim@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Monday, January 22, 2018 11:25 AM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         proposed SB-827




Honorable Council Members,

SB-827, a bill recently sponsored by Senator Wiener (D-SF), poses a serious threat to local control of zoning
and planning that is beyond anything we have ever seen before. This proposal to address the affordable housing
crisis, by building 5-8 story buildings, by right, within a quarter or half mile of transit, disregards our General
Plan, specific plans and zoning ordinances, and would result in unsustainable impacts on our environment, town
character, schools, traffic, public services, infrastructure and quality of life.
At a time when Palo Alto communities are working diligently to increase affordable housing options, this is not
the time to allow local zoning and planning control to succumb to overly simplistic and counter-productive state
legislation.
As our elected representatives, we count on you to act in the best interests of our community. Will you show
leadership to address the threats of SB-827 and the over-reach by Sacramento to remove local control of zoning
and planning? We ask that you rise to the occasion and use your status as elected officials to voice our
objections to this draconian legislation.
You have the opportunity, and in fact the responsibility, to protect our city’s constitutional right to plan for our
future and address our growth and housing affordability challenges.
As a member of your community, I am writing to respectfully request and strongly suggest that you take the
following actions.
       1 Place the public discussion of SB-827 on the City Council’s public hearings agenda, within the next 30
       days.
       2 Issue a public comment and rebuttal to Senator Wiener and Sacramento lawmaker’s, regarding the
       proposals found in SB-827.
We trust that you value Palo Alto's right to local control of planning and zoning for our future, as we do. We are
ready to work with you to educate, engage, and empower residents to have their opinions on this issue heard.

Mark Nadim
Alexis Dr.
Palo Alto




                                                         1
    City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 2:50 PM

    Carnahan, David

    From:                                 Sharon C <sharonchin@msn.com>
    Sent:                                 Monday, January 22, 2018 2:07 PM
    To:                                   Council, City
    Subject:                              EPPP Permits & Cal Ave Parking Garage


    Dear Palo Alto City Council,

    https://www.paloaltoonline.com/news/2018/01/19/as-costs-grow-city-may-scale-back-garage-plan

    This is just infuriating.

    The City Council needs to take a giant step back and assess. Whether you are a 'residentialist' or 'pro-housing', remove those
    labels. Please do two things. Look at the situation from two different perspectives 1) Pretend you are a resident and live in either
    Evergreen Park or Mayfield neighborhoods and think how you would feel. And 2) As an elected official, think about what is
    best for Palo Alto almost as if this city were a person. Don't think about who donated to your campaign or the politics of any of
    it. Just think purely about Palo Alto and what will make this city thrive for the next several decades - remembering that Palo
    Alto residents are an important cog of what makes this city vibrant and interesting.

    Whether you are an advocate of slow-growth or pro-development, you cannot build without planning for impact this
    development will have on residents, businesses and existing infrastructure. What is the strategic growth plan here for Palo
    Alto? Even the most thoughtful development creates impact -- and it is your duty to ensure various components that are
    impacted - residents, infrastructure, businesses are kept in balance.

    If you continue to allow development along Park Boulevard and other locations not just in Mayfield, Evergreen Park, but also
    other city neighborhoods without planning for what impact this will have on the streets - traffic, safety, commute of pedestrians,
    bicyclists, vehicles + adequate parking not just for commuters but for residents and guests to frequent our city and business
    districts -- you simply will continue to have negative impacts and threaten the livelihood of Palo Alto.

    The city is playing catch up from all the construction that was allowed to happen without adequate parking and thought to the
    impact this development would have on our infrastructure, city streets and neighborhoods. To reduce the size of this parking
    garage and 'solve' the problem by approving more parking permits to be sold so cars here on business can park on residential
    streets is putting a bandaid on the problem - and it's unfair to put the burden solely on the residents of Evergreen Park and
    Mayfield. If any of you lived here, how would you feel? If any of you commuted on Park Boulevard near the Alma/Oregon
    overpass on a regular basis between 3-6pm, how would you feel? If any of you frequent Cal Ave on a regular basis between 11-
    2pm, how long does it take you to find a parking spot?

    What hasn't been mentioned yet is the impact all this traffic congestion has on safety of pedestrians and bicyclists/foot traffic of
    all ages.

    You all need to take a long view here and consider all perspectives of what these decisions mean for our city and for its
    inhabitants. I am just exasperated with your thought process and feel suspect of what is influencing your decisions.




1) Do not reduce the planned size or scope of the new parking garage. This garage is vitally needed for the small businesses, service
    providers, and residents who needs somewhere to park when they visit this area. We don’t want visitors and business employees
    to be forced out into the streets and into our neighborhoods.



                                                                     1
    City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 2:50 PM
    2) Adding more commercial parking permits is the exact opposite or purpose of having an RPPP in our neighborhoods. The
    goal of these programs is to actually find ways to “reduce” the need for commercial permits over time and hopefully make
    neighborhood parking open for residents.

    Therefore:




    A) Do not increase the current 250 commercial permits limit in the Evergreen Park/Mayfield neighborhood. Adding more
    permits for commercial use will continue to add to an already congested parking problem in this area. Instead, we need to find a
    way to “reduce” commercial permits by at least 10% each year.




     B) No commercial permits should be issued to new buildings that have Traffic Development Management programs (TDMs).



    C) Make commercial permit parking available along El Camino Real (both sides of the street), from Stanford Avenue to Park
    Blvd./Serra for local businesses.


Don't let shortsighted decisions continue to plague the vibrancy of this town.

    Sharon Chin
    Resident of Evergreen Park




                                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:20 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                                          Mackenzie, Andrea <amackenzie@openspaceauthority.org>
Sent:                                          Friday, January 19, 2018 3:22 PM
To:                                            Council, City
Cc:                                            Clerk, City
Subject:                                       Public Notice of the Availability of the Santa Clara County Regional Conservation
                                               Investment Strategy
Attachments:                                   RCIS_ Council_PaloAlto.pdf


Dear Public Agency Partner,




Please see the attached public notice of the availability of the Santa Clara County Regional Conservation Investment Strategy (RCIS) on the
website of the California Department of Fish and Wildlife (CDFW). The Santa Clara Valley Open Space Authority is serving as the local
sponsoring agency for this pilot RCIS, and we and the CDFW welcome your review and comment beginning January 22nd and ending March
22nd.




The attached letter provides details about the RCIS document and how to submit comments during the 60-day review period.




Sincerely Yours,

Andrea Mackenzie



--
Andrea Mackenzie
General Manager
408.224.7476
Openspaceauthority.org




Celebrate our 25th Anniversary with us!

_________________________
Please print only if necessary.
Confidentiality Notice: The information contained in this e-mail message is privileged, confidential, and protected from disclosure. If you are not the intended
recipient, any dissemination, distribution, or copying is strictly prohibited. If you have received this e-mail message in error, please e-mail the sender or telephone
408.224.7476.                                                                         1
January 19, 2018

Palo Alto City Council
250 Hamilton Ave.
Palo Alto, CA 94301

RE: Regional Conservation Investment Strategy for the Santa Clara County Region

Dear Councilmembers,

This letter is to inform you that a draft Regional Conservation Investment Strategy (RCIS) has been
developed for Santa Clara County and the Upper Pajaro River Watershed within San Benito County and
will be available on the California Department of Fish and Wildlife website for a 60-day public review
and comment period beginning January 22, 2018 and ending at 5:00 PM on March 22, 2018.

The RCIS has been developed as part of the California Department of Fish and Wildlife’s (CDFW)
Regional Conservation Investment Strategies (RCIS) Program, which was established by AB 2087 and
signed into law in September 2016 by Governor Brown. AB 2087 establishes the RCIS Program to create
a new, voluntary conservation planning tool to promote the conservation of species, habitats, and other
natural resources and enable advance mitigation for public infrastructure projects. An RCIS provides a
non-regulatory assessment and analysis of conservation needs in a region, including habitat connectivity
and climate resilience. It is intended to provide scientific information for the consideration of public
agencies. An RCIS is voluntary and does not create, modify, or impose regulatory requirements or
standards; regulate the use of land; establish land-use designations; or affect the land-use authority of
or exercise of discretion by any public agency. Entities can use an RCIS approved by CDFW to guide
voluntary investment in conservation actions, including habitat protection, restoration, and
enhancement, and to develop Mitigation Credit Agreements (MCAs) to enable advance mitigation to
offset impacts to species and habitats from development and public infrastructure projects.

Santa Clara County RCIS: A Pilot Project

The Santa Clara County RCIS is a pilot initiated in 2016 to apply the new legislation. The Santa Clara
Valley Open Space Authority (OSA) agreed to sponsor the RCIS, which has been developed with guidance
from a steering committee that also includes the Santa Clara Valley Habitat Agency (VHA), Santa Clara
Valley Transportation Authority (VTA), The Nature Conservancy (TNC), and the State Coastal
Conservancy (SCC). The region was chosen for a pilot program, in part, because in 2016, the VTA’s
Measure B presented a unique opportunity to examine how an RCIS could streamline transportation
project delivery and increase the effectiveness of mitigation measures to conserve the region’s habitats
and species.

Consistency with the Valley Habitat Plan

The Santa Clara County RCIS area includes the permit area of the Santa Clara Valley Habitat Plan (Habitat
Plan), implemented by the Santa Clara Valley Habitat Agency (VHA), a joint exercise of powers entity
(JPA) created by the County of Santa Clara and the cities of San Jose, Morgan Hill, and Gilroy, under
Government Code Section 6500 et seq. The Habitat Plan is a 50-year regional plan to protect
endangered species and natural resources while allowing for future                 33 Las Colinas Lane
development in Santa Clara County. The RCIS was developed in coordination          San Jose, CA 95119
                                                                                 408.224.7476 T
                                                                                 408.224.7548 F
                                                                                 openspaceauthority.org
with the VHA to ensure that it complements and is consistent with the Habitat Plan’s conservation
strategy both within and beyond the Habitat Plan’s permit area. The RCIS builds on the Habitat Plan’s
conservation goals, objectives, and reserve design to “fill in the gaps”
that are not addressed by the Habitat Plan, both in geography and in resources. On December 13, 2017,
the VHA submitted a letter to CDFW determining that the RCIS is consistent and complements the
Habitat Plan.


RCIS Status and Next Steps

The RCIS has been developed with input from conservation and transportation agencies and
organizations, as well as the broader public. Once approved, the RCIS can be used to inform voluntary
conservation and enhancement actions for focal species, sensitive habitats, other conservation
elements, including habitat connectivity and working landscapes. If implemented as part of a MCA
approved by CDFW, these actions may be used as advance mitigation for transportation projects, as
envisioned through the Regional Advance Mitigation Planning process being developed for the Bay Area
by the Metropolitan Transportation Commission, TNC, and SCC as part of Plan Bay Area 2040.

As the implementation sponsor, the OSA will track work to conduct conservation actions identified in
the RCIS including development of any MCAs for priority conservation actions. The OSA will work with
other conservation agencies on RCIS updates which are required every 10 years under AB2087.

Submittal of Public Comments

Public comments on the draft Santa Clara County RCIS should be submitted by email to both CDFW and
the OSA, or by hard copy provided only to CDFW to minimize postage costs and effort.

Public comments should be submitted in one of the following three ways (email, mail,
or dropped off), to the following addresses:

EMAIL (comments should be emailed to both CDFW and to the OSA):
CDFW: rcis@wildlife.ca.gov
OSA: RCIS@openspaceauthority.org

MAILED COPY (comments may be mailed to CDFW alone):
California Department of Fish and Wildlife
Habitat Conservation Planning Branch
P.O. Box 944209 Sacramento, CA 94244-2090
ATTENTION: Santa Clara County RCIS Comments

DROPPED-OFF COPY (comments may be dropped off to CDFW alone):
California Department of Fish and
Wildlife
Habitat Conservation Planning Branch
1416 9th Street, 12th Floor, Room 1266 Sacramento, CA 95814
Additional Information

Additional information about the RCIS program is available at the CDFW website:
    •   https://www.wildlife.ca.gov/conservation/planning/regional-conservation


If you have any questions about the RCIS public review process, please call Joelle Garretson at
(408) 224-7476.

Sincerely,




Andrea Mackenzie
General Manager
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/23/2018 4:31 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Jeanne Fleming <jfleming@metricus.net>
Sent:                         Tuesday, January 23, 2018 11:33 AM
To:                           Clerk, City
Cc:                           Council, City; Architectural Review Board
Subject:                      Public Records Act Request



Dear City Clerk:

Pursuant to my rights under the California Public Records Act (Government Code Section 6250 et
seq.), I ask to obtain copies of the following, which I understand to be held by the City of Palo Alto:

   All letters, emails, texts or other communications from or to City Manager James Keene on the
   subject of telecommunications or related to the subject of telecommunications—communications
   including, but not limited to, those with City Staff; City Council; City advisory boards; Verizon;
   Verizon’s consultants and vendors; Crown Castle; NextG Networks; Vinculums; AT&T; AT&T’s
   consultants and vendors; AT&T Mobility; Astound Broadband (WAVE); members (including
   members of the Board of Directors, on which Mr. Keene serves, and advisory board members),
   staff and investors (including AT&T, Crown Castle, Hammett & Edison, and Verizon) of Joint
   Venture Silicon Valley; and anyone connected to any organization with which Mr. Keene has a
   relationship as Palo Alto’s City Manager—from the period starting on January 1, 2016 and ending
   on January 23, 2018.

If I can provide any clarification that will help expedite your attention to my request, please contact me
at 650-325-5151.

I ask that you notify me of any duplication costs exceeding $100 before you duplicate the records so
that I may decide which records I want copied.

Thank you for your attention to this matter.

Sincerely,

Jeanne Fleming

Jeanne Fleming, PhD

JFleming@Metricus.net

650-325-5151
                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:15 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Jeanne Fleming <jfleming@metricus.net>
Sent:                         Wednesday, January 17, 2018 4:08 PM
To:                           Clerk, City
Cc:                           Council, City; Architectural Review Board
Subject:                      Public Records Act Request



Dear City Clerk:

Pursuant to my rights under the California Public Records Act (Government Code Section 6250 et
seq.), I ask to obtain copies of the following, which I understand to be held by the City of Palo Alto:

   All letters and emails from or to City Chief Information Officer Jonathan Reichental on the subject
   of telecommunications or related to the subject of telecommunications—letters and emails
   including, but not limited to, correspondence with City Staff; City Council; City advisory boards;
   Verizon; Verizon’s consultants and vendors; Crown Castle; NextG Networks; Vinculums; AT&T;
   AT&T’s consultants and vendors; AT&T Mobility; Astound Broadband (WAVE); and members
   (including advisory board members), staff and investors (including AT&T, Crown Castle, Hammett
   & Edison, and Verizon) of Joint Venture Silicon Valley—from the period starting on January 1,
   2016 and ending on January 17, 2018.

If I can provide any clarification that will help expedite your attention to my request, please contact me
at 650-325-5151.

I ask that you notify me of any duplication costs exceeding $100 before you duplicate the records so
that I may decide which records I want copied.

Thank you for your attention to this matter.

Sincerely,

Jeanne Fleming

Jeanne Fleming, PhD

JFleming@Metricus.net

650-325-5151



                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:16 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Jennifer Landesmann <jlandesmann@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Thursday, January 18, 2018 12:13 PM
To:                              Chapman, Karen
Cc:                              Supervisor.Simitian@bos.sccgov.org; Council, City
Subject:                         Re: Response to Representative Eshoo's communication on Flight Path Changes and
                                 Aircraft Noise



Dear Karen,

Thank you for letting me know, and look forward to hearing FAA's response soon. I believe there is also some
trust building that needs to be done at the community level.

The open questions about southern arrivals; the confounding lack of progress to mitigate BDEGA and night
flights noise, and the length of time it has taken to this point is profoundly disappointing.

It's a bit insult to injury as well, that the safety reasons given for coercing concentrated and lower to the ground
paths are because of the reduction in distance between planes and the reduction in SFO minima. We now have
three near catastrophes at SFO from pushing the envelope.

That all of this was known in the design process was not evident when we started out. We had our suspicions
and we had to research everything on our own.

It is imperative for FAA to work to find truly regional solutions.

If you recall, Rep Eshoo at the March 2016 meeting gave an eloquent statement that this was not to be a
competition between communities but a competition of ideas. Yet - it has been almost overwhelmingly a
runaway train to only cater to the single idea of the Big Sur track. Without traction on the other items people
barely got from the Select Committee process, this will be a terrible hoax on the public.

We should not have even been doing the ideas competition without the FAA's own ideas, and some from the
airlines and other ideas from the airports.

A fundamental flaw is relying ONLY on the single ideas from novices which the Select Committee stated in
4.1.

Without real solutions, this work still needs to get done to get the airports and airlines on the ball to fix this.

I urge that Rep Eshoo PLEASE not keep pushing only the ground track change for Big Sur.

Thank you,

Jennifer




                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:16 PM



On Wed, Jan 17, 2018 at 4:34 PM, Chapman, Karen <Karen.Chapman@mail.house.gov> wrote:

Dear Jennifer,



I’m following up with you to let you know we sent your email with technical questions to the FAA for review and
response. We followed up with the FAA to let

them know you are still waiting for a response.



My best,

Karen

Office of Congresswoman Eshoo




From: Jennifer Landesmann [mailto:jlandesmann@gmail.com]
Sent: Monday, December 04, 2017 7:48 PM
To: Representative Anna G. Eshoo
Cc: Supervisor.Simitian@bos.sccgov.org; city.council@cityofpaloalto.org; Chapman, Karen
Subject: Response to Representative Eshoo's communication on Flight Path Changes and Aircraft Noise




Dear Representative Eshoo,



Thank you for your leadership to address jet noise with the FAA, and the important work of helping get relief
for impacted people.



The following is to alert problems with the follow up to the Select Committee, which I hope that you and FAA
can please resolve.



In your communication last week, here below, it is stated that the Select Committee (over the course
of six months) reviewed "FAA proposals;" however, the Select committee did not review FAA
                                                          2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:16 PM
proposals but rather the committee reviewed " dozens of specific recommendations submitted
by the three members’ constituencies" as explained in the FAA's Initiative (top of page 2).



The Select Committee voted unanimously to support nearly all community ideas, except for the proposal
to reconstitute the Big Sur ground track which was not a unanimous vote, and met the consensus threshold,
only after criteria and assurances were added to this item. Select Committee members understood early on that
noise cannot not be reduced on the Big Sur track if altitudes are also not also reconstituted, or if various
issues related to congested airspace remain unresolved. It's like trying to fit a square peg in a round hole to
reduce noise with planes flying low in a congested area. The FAA has since responded that the criteria and
assurances requested by the Select Committee cannot be met for the Big Sur track. Work is thus still needed
to address this problem.



Given the inability to significantly reduce noise with a Big Sur reconstitution proposal (and actually may
increase noise for many), it was surprising to hear that Representative Jimmy Panetta and Santa Cruz
Supervisor John Leopold announced on Saturday in Santa Cruz, that FAA Western Regional Director Dennis
Roberts plans to proceed with implementation of a Big Sur ground track design, with an August 2018 date,
dispensing with environmental review.



I can only hope this is a mis communication. The lessons from by-passing NEPA laws are costing many
Palo Alto families dearly, with livability, productivity. and health impacts from jet noise which should have
been averted a long time ago and certainly in planning for Nextgen. Environmental reviews may seem like
bureaucratic exercises but they are important because, they offer the public a chance to address
mitigations and alternatives to proposed actions.



The Select Committee was not a replacement for environmental review. And at no point were communities
asked to forego that right. As a matter of fact, at every step of the process, FAA assured environmental reviews
in testimony and in writing. Reviews certainly are part of "Design procedures" under FAA Order 7100.41A,
PBN processing - step 2 of 5 stages.



IFP Gateway PAGE 10 - FAA Initiative:



o "Design Activities: This includes the creation of a working group in order to design a
procedures/route that meets the project goals and objectives. An environmental review is
included in this stage."




                                                       3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:16 PM
The Select Committee accomplished many things (three highlights below), but none replace an environmental
review of specific actions being considered.



1) The Select Committee (SC) developed Underlying Principles, and responded to the FAA's "ask" for
community Design Criteria.



2) SC heard public testimony from affected residents in three counties.



3) SC Voted on a set of community recommendations, with FAA acting as Technical Support. FAA guided the
committee as to what could be asked and considered (or not) at the time these recommendations were
developed.



The work done by the Select Committee deserves to be followed up now with a hard look at impacts of
proposed design changes and a real environmental review. FAA has state of the art tools which were not used
during the Select Committee but are very accessible and should be employed soon.



Lastly, in the recent FAA response Appendix D page 106 it was confirmed that what has been frequently
referred to as a safety issue - to lower altitudes in the Menlo vicinity - goes hand in hand with capacity plans
and these were established in the design phase.



SFO had insisted in 2014 that nothing had changed except for changes due to the Asiana accident. FOIA
analysis obtained thanks to your office in 2015 said otherwise, and a Historical Noise Assessment shows that
Palo Alto has been experiencing changes which rise to the FAA's own threshold for significant impact. The
cursory Environmental Analysis in 2014 (which did not reveal the planned altitudes or throughput plans for the
Menlo vicinity) was misleading and deprived the public of key information which FAA now confirms was
known early on in the design phase.



Please do not allow for environmental reviews to be by-passed. Moreover, on May 6, 2016, at the Select
Committee's organizing meeting you committed (as did the FAA) to provide data and analysis of any
proposals. I urge you to please make this a priority, to have proper look at impacts for all proposed designs,
before they get baked.



With much appreciation for you and your staff's dedication, and Best wishes,

                                                        4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:16 PM




Jennifer Landesmann




copy:



Supervisor Joe Simitian

Palo Alto City Council




On Mon, Nov 27, 2017 at 6:08 PM, Representative Anna G. Eshoo <CA18AEima@mail.house.gov> wrote:




                                                     5
    City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:16 PM




November 27, 2017


Dear Mrs. Landesmann,

Because you have previously contacted me regarding flight path changes and an increase in aircraft noise affecting you
and your community, I want to provide you with an update on this issue.

On November 16, 2017, I joined with Congresswoman Jackie Speier (CA-14) and Congressman Jimmy Panetta (CA-20)
to release the updated version of the Federal Aviation Administration’s (FAA) response to the report and
recommendations of the committee on South Bay arrivals. As you may know, myself, Congresswoman Speier, and former
Congressman Sam Farr (CA-20) formed a committee in 2016 comprised of 12 local elected officials from our three
congressional districts, all impacted by aircraft noise. Over the course of six months, the committee held nearly two dozen
meetings to review FAA proposals, receive community input, and develop recommendations for regional solutions to this
problem. In November of last year, the committee approved its final report which includes short- and long-term
recommendations to the FAA to address aircraft noise in our region.

The updated response of the FAA can be viewed on my website here. My colleagues and I share the frustration of our
constituents with regard to how long this evaluation by the FAA has taken to produce. However, I’m reassured by the
FAA’s statement in the Executive Summary on Page 2 which states, “This report does not represent the end of our
work. The FAA continues to commit to work collaboratively with communities and local Members of Congress to
address a wide range of noise concerns.” As representatives of the various affected communities throughout the region,
we will continue to work together to ensure that the timelines outlined in the report are maintained by the FAA.”

While the committee concluded its work at the end of last year, the SFO Airport/Community Roundtable will continue its
work for aircraft noise mitigation on behalf of the residents of San Francisco and San Mateo Counties. Rep. Panetta and I
who represent parts of Santa Clara and Santa Cruz Counties have followed up on the committee’s recommendation for a
permanent venue in the South Bay to address aircraft noise concerns for the currently unrepresented cities in our
Congressional Districts. A copy of my letter co-authored with Rep. Ro Khanna (CA-17) can be viewed here and a
response from the Cities Association can be found here.




                                                            6
    City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:16 PM

I will continue to push the FAA to implement short-term and long-term solutions to address this issue on a region-wide
basis. I will also continue to work with my colleagues in the Congressional Quiet Skies Caucus to pursue legislative
efforts to hold FAA, airlines, and airports accountable to reduce aircraft noise and encourage the industry to adopt new
technologies that will reduce noise.

As always, constituents can report any excessive aircraft noise complaints to the SFO and SJC Noise Abatement Offices.
This ensures that your report is part of the official record. You can reach the SFO Noise Abatement Office at (650) 821-
4736 or via email at sfo.noise@flysfo.com. You can file a complaint with the SJC Noise Abatement Office
at http://www.flysanjose.com/fl/environmental.php?page=noise&subtitle=Noise+Abatement.

If you have any questions or comments, let me hear from you. I value what my constituents say to me, and I always need
your thoughts and benefit from your ideas.


Most gratefully,




Anna G. Eshoo
Member of Congress


                                To share your thoughts or receive updates from me, please visit my website.
                                                                Unsubscribe




                                                                   7
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/23/2018 4:30 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                            linda barman <lindabarman3@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Tuesday, January 23, 2018 11:00 AM
To:                              Council, City; dhorsley@smcgov.org; dpine@smcgov.org; cgroom@smcgov.org;
                                 citycouncil@menlopark.org; BoardOperations@cob.sccgov.org; wslocum@smcgov.org;
                                 dcanepa@smcgov.org
Subject:                         Stanford GUP



Dear City Councilmembers and County Supervisors--

First of all, thank you for your work serving our community. I appreciate all the time you spend making our
communities a better place, and know that you hardly make a fortune doing so! Your service is appreciated.

I live near the proposed Stanford development at 2131 Sand Hill Road. I bike, walk or drive by that address
almost every day, at different times of day, and am very familiar with the traffic flow. I pass it on runs, shop at
the Safeway there, and visit my elderly in laws who live nearby.

I am totally ok with Stanford building new buildings there. Go for it! Build offices, build housing, knock
yourself out. Stanford is growing and they need space. No concerns here. I was delighted to hear that it will
have no net impact on traffic, since that intersection is already a complete mess. There are a frequent accidents
and even a fatality not too long ago, so I'm glad that Stanford has studied it and it won't increase traffic.

Since it won't increase traffic, there will be no need for more parking spots at the new development. Maybe
more handicapped spots if it doesn't meet current ADA requirements. Stanford must plan on running shuttles
from the Caltrain station or shuttling employees there on the Marguerite. That's cool.

In other words, approve the buildings, but don't approve the parking spots. If the development really won't
increase traffic, they won't need the parking. If Stanford says they still need the parking, well, that shows they're
lying about the traffic impact. Or, you know, "adjusting the figures". If a development of that size requires a
larger number of parking spots to meet construction regulations, well, if there is parking people will drive.

To be serious, the Sand Hill/Alpine/Alameda intersection is already super dangerous. I have literally driven my
kids from my inlaws house to a meeting---directly across the street--because it is so dangerous. And Sand Hill
at rush hour? Good luck getting anywhere. If Stanford wants to develop there, they need to figure out how to
get their employees there without making it worse.

Thank you very much for your time and consideration of this matter!

Best Regards,

Linda Barman
Menlo Park Resident
Stanford Employee (don't blame me for traffic, I bike!)
Mom




                                                          1
                                                                                 Please Contact the Clerk’s Office
                                                                                     to View Additional Pages,
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:35 PM                      Attachments, or Images Related
                                                                                         to this Document
Carnahan, David

From:                           Maximilian
Sent:                           Saturday, January 20, 2018 9:46 PM
To:                             Council, City
Cc:                             Perez Sanchez, Jose; Simran Pujji; Mallika Parulekar; louisakeyani@gmail.com
Subject:                        The Palo Alto Youth Council Cordially Invites You to our First Ever Meet and Greet with
                                City Council members



Honorable City Council Members, Mayor Kniss, and Vice Mayor Filseth:

My name is Max and I am a 10th Grader at                     . Many of you may know me as I am an intern for
Greg Tanaka. Today, I am writing to you on behalf of the Palo Alto Youth Council, namely the youth
government engagement subcommittee.

As you may have heard, the Palo Alto Youth Council conducted a survey in December 2017 to youth in Palo
Alto about their opinions regarding the local government. Overall, we received 162 responses from youth in all
four grade levels at Henry M Gunn High School, Palo Alto High School, and Castilleja School. Key findings
included: only 1.23% of respondents knew who the mayor of Palo Alto was, almost two-thirds of survey
responders thought that the Palo Alto City Council had some impact on their lives, and survey responders felt
that teen mental health and education were their top issues. I would encourage you to view the full results here.

Compelled by the results of the survey, the Palo Alto Youth Council has decided to host a meet-and-greet
between Palo Alto City Councilmembers and the public (specifically the youth community). The meet-and-
greet will last for approximately two hours, and will consist of a moderated panel discussion followed by an
open floor meet-and-greet. Given that we are all have various other commitments, the Palo Alto Youth Council
would like to propose the following two dates:

Sunday, February 25, 2018 from 3:00 PM - 5:00 PM
Monday, March 11, 2018 (local holiday for PAUSD) from 3:00 PM - 5:00 PM

We would prefer to host this event at the Mitchell Park Community Center, but would be open to hosting it at
city hall. Which of the two proposed dates would you prefer?

If you could let us know your availability by Tuesday, January 30, 2018, it would be very much appreciated.
Once we have a date set, the Palo Alto Youth Council will start to publicize the event, and hope to expect
attendance from at least fifty youth.

In this email, I have copied Jose Perez-Sanchez (PAYC advisor), Louisa Keyani (PAYC president), and the
other members of the youth government engagement subcommittee (Mallika Parulekar and Simran Pujji).

Thank you very much for your ongoing dedication to making Palo Alto a better place for all and I look forward
to hearing your responses. If you have any further questions, please feel free to contact me at your earliest
convenience.

Best Regards,

Max
                                                         1
City of Palo Alto I City Clerk's Office I 1/22/2018 1:35 PM




                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/22/2018 1:33 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com>
Sent:                         Saturday, January 20, 2018 7:28 PM
To:                           Watson, Ron; Council, City
Cc:                           stevendlee@alumni.duke.edu
Subject:                      There’s no excuse for Taser use in our jails- by Richard Konda & Aram James
Attachments:                  Aram James (DJ-1-12-18).pdf




>
> FYI:
>
>
>
> Sent from my iPhone




                                                       1
                                                       LOS ANGELES & SAN FRANCISCO



                                !lail ydfourngJ              FRIDAY, JANUARY 12, 2018




There's no excuse for laser use in our jails
By Aram James                                                                      232, resulted in judgments or        at all after having reviewed the
and Richard Konda                                                                  settlements for the plaintiffs:      extensive warnings. Ed Davis,
                                                                                   220 settlements and 12 judg-         former Boston police chief from
            atchdogs across ~e

W
                                                                                   ments. Reuters was able to de-       2006-2013, in ultimately declin-
            country are organiz-                                                   termine payouts in 193 cases,        ing to purchase Tasers for his
            ing to oppose police                                                   totaling $172 million paid by cit-   department said the following:
practices that run contrary to                                                     ies and their insurers. That dol-    The warnings "made the weapon
community values and our con-                                                      lar figure does not include three    impractical to use, and it gave a
stitutional rights. In Santa Clara                                                 dozen cases in which settlements     lot of us the impression that we
County in the spring of 2017,                                                      remained confidential or were        weren't getting the full story. I
Sheriff Laurie Smith, a longtime                                                   unavailable." (Emphasis added.)      didn't want to take the risk. The
                                                      New York TI mes News Service
opponent of Tasers, in a surpris-                                                    These findings regarding the       potential litigation costs abso-
ing shift of policy, announced                                                     cost of litigation should trouble    lutely were a factor."
her plan to introduce Tasers into      Taser, the Weapon that Trans- any law enforcement agency,                           The tragic death of Everette
the Santa Clara County jails.          formed Policing") and the Bar city or county contemplating the                   Howard, a young African-Amer-
Local civil rights organizations       Association of San Francisco.               purchase of Tasers.                  ican student, is a case examined
immediately began organizing to                                                                                         in the Reuter's series. One Taser
resist the sheriff's call forTasers.   Taser-Related Deaths and Lit-           Taser Warnings                           blast by University of Cincinna-
   One of our first strategies was     igation                                    Historically the manufactur-          ti police officer Richard Haas, a
to ensure that members of the             Critically important to con-         er had very few warnings re-             certified Taser instructor, result-
community were as fully in-            vincing our sheriff of the inap-        garding the safety of its weap-          ed in Everette Howard's death.
formed as possible regarding the       propriateness of bringing Tasers        on. Increasingly and in order            "Haas fired his stun gun. One
risks that Tasers pose to human        to the jails is Reuter's recent         to shift liability to cities and         electrified dart hit below How-
life. We reviewed materials on         finding that the death toll associ-     police departments, Taser now            ard's lower left chest, the other
Tasers and got ourselves cur-          ated with Tasers is substantially       has a 4,500-word, seven-page             near his waist. The 18 year-old
rent on the nuances of the issue.      more than previously reported by        warning. The warning advises             collapsed, unconscious, and was
Next, we scheduled meetings            mainstream civil rights organiza-       users not to deploy the Taser in         pronounced dead at the hospi-
over a seven-month period with         tions like Amnesty Internation-         the area of the face, eyes, neck,        ta!." Haas subsequently said, "I
key elected and non-elected of-        al. Using rigorous journalistic         chest, heart and the genitals. And       did not in my wildest dreams ex-
ficials who we felt could inftu-       standards, Reuters documented           not to Taser a variety of popula-        pect this kid to die."
ence the sheriff's decision. This      1,005 deaths related to Taser use       tions including the frail, mental-          As part of his role as a certified
included members of the Santa          by law enforcement.                     ly ill, pregnant women and those         Taser trainer, Haas acknowledged
Clara County Board of Supervi-            In addition, Reuters complet-        with heart problems. By warning          that he had studied the Taser
sors who ultimately will vote to       ed a thorough examination of the        police departments regarding             safety warnings over a 10-year
decide whether the sheriff will        monies paid out by cities across        the risk of death and serious            period and noted that they had
be allowed to purchase Tasers.         the country in Taser related lit-       injury when a Taser is improp-           become more complex over the
We also met with the elected           igation. Reuters identified and         erly used, the manufacturer has          years. Ironically, the Taser blast
Santa Clara County district at-        reviewed 442 wrongful death             effectively shifted liability from       that killed Everette Howard was
torney, the Santa Clara County         lawsuits in which Tasers were           itself to police departments and         the first time Haas had deployed
public defender and the county         a factor that may have caused           municipalities.                          a Taser in the field. He ultimate-
counsel. And most importantly,         death. "In 120 of the 442 cases            Reuters also explored in detail       ly concluded, "it seemed like it
we met with the sheriff and her        or 27%, the Taser was the only          the progression of Taser warn-           was getting harder and harder to
staff to open up a dialogue on         force alleged in the claim; in the      ings that includes a comprehen-          use the Taser." The University of
this critical issue.                   remaining 322 cases, the stun           sive interactive guide.                  Cincinnati ultimately settled the
   Here are some of the argu-          guns were alleged to have been             The progression of increasing-        Howard's family wrongful death
ments and information we pro-          part of a broader array of police       ly restrictive warnings issued by        lawsuit for $2 million. Taser was
vided much of which came from          force. More than three-fifths of        Taser has led some police agen-          not sued in the matter.
a recent fivepart series by Reu-       the 366 of the concluded law-           cies to either shelve Tasers all            In another case explored by
ters ("Shock Tactics: Inside the       suits against governments, or           together or not to purchase them         Reuters, Linwood Lambert was
tasered some 20 times by South             ports 47% efficacy, but LAPD                      eluded the purchase price, main-                 be it the use of Tasers, inhumane
Boston, Virginia, police officers.         far exceeds the size of SFPD.                     tenance, training and oversight.                 jail conditions, unconstitutional
He died. There was substantial             The OPD which is closer in                        Assuming a department size of                    surveillance tactics, racially dis-
evidence that the three officers           size to the SFPD, reported that                   2,200 officers, the cost is be-                  criminatory police enforcement;
involved ignored the manufac-              in 2015 Tasers were deployed                      tween $17.6 million and $22                      be confident that there is a way to
turer's warning regarding the              on just 37 occasions and 32                       million." Clearly, the sheriff and               organize your community to ef-
risk of repeatedly tasering vie-           times in 2016. Oakland reported                   the Santa Clara County Board of                  fectively challenge these issues.
tiins. In addition, the officers ig-       for each year, the efficacy was                   Supervisors need to consider the                 Meet early and often with the
nored other warnings issued by             50%." Other studies have con-                     cost factors raised above before                 community and with your local
the manufacturer. Under oath at            firmed that where warnings are                    expending millions of tax payer                  elected officials. Provide them
a deposition, one of three offi-           complied with the use of Tasers                   dollars on a weapon that is in-                  with the necessary information
cers involved, Corporal Tiffany            drops dramatically. Similarly,                    creasingly seen as impractical to                to fully educate them on the is-
Bratton, acknowledged that she             numerous studies have con-                        use.                                             sues. Call on your local district
was aware of the manufacturer's            firmed that Tasers have an unac-                                                                   attorney, who is the chief, law en-
warnings. In a chilling statement,         ceptably high failure rate putting                Final Argument                                   forcement officer in every com-
she said, " If I read and abided by        both the officers and intended                       Tasers kill on the average of                 munity, to support your efforts to
every single warning ... I would           victim at risk.                                   one person per week in the Unit-                 challenge and end police practic-
not Taser anyone."                            Moreover, Tasers are not effec-                ed States. According to the Re-                  es that diminish public trust for
                                           tive. Michael Leonesio, a retired                 uters series, nine out of 10 who                 local law enforcement. Remem-
Catch-22                                   Oakland peace officer, provided                   die are unarmed. Tasers are un-                  ber police practices are not some
   More and more attention is              answers to questions posed by                     safe to use in jails because of the              obscure body of knowledge that
being paid by commentators to              the Bar Association of San Fran-                  substantial risk of injury or death              we the community need sit back
the fact that the use of Tasers is         cisco. "Given the warnings is-                    to both inmates and correction                   and passively accept. We can in
a Catch-22. Failure by police de-          sued by Taser International, does                 officers. The strongest single                   fact make a difference.
partments to follow closely the            this diminish the weapon's effi-                  piece of evidence of this lack of
ever growing restrictions on the           cacy and/or circumstances other-                  safety is the 1,005 Taser related                 Aram James is a retired Santa
use ofTasers issued by the manu-           wise warranting Taser use[?] .. .                 deaths reported in the Reuters                    Clara County deputy public de-
facturer has resulted in unneces-          Answer: The latest manufacturer                   fivepart series on Tasers. Equally               fender, a member of CJA and a
sary deaths and a huge increase            warnings and trainings, as well                   powerful evidence of why Tasers                  co-founder of the Albert Cobar-
in the costs of litigation borne           as the Courts and current case                    should be banned is the ever                      rubias Justice Project (ACJP), a
by municipalities. On the other            law decisions, have absolutely                    growing list of restrictions/warn-               grassroots legal advocacy orga-
hand, where police departments             limited the circumstances when                    ings issued by the manufacturer                   nization located in San Jose.
are closely complying with the             a TASER, can and/or, should be                    themselves regarding the serious
manufacturer's complex warn-               used. Combine this with the fact                  risks of injury and death related                Richard Konda is an attor-
ings, they are finding it increas-         that the new generation weap-                     to the use of Tasers.                            ney and executive director of
ingly impractical to use Tasers.           ons are generating only half the                     The millions that would be                    the Asian Law Alliance and the
The Oakland Police Department              electrical output of the previous                 spent in arming the correctional                 Chairperson of the Coalition
has over 700 police officers on            generations, and I question the                   officers in the jails with Tasers                fo r Justice and Accountability
their force, all are armed with            current weapons' ability for con-                 would be better spent on hiring                  (CJA). Kanda and James have
Tasers. The Bar Association of             sistent, reliable, subject incapac-               more and better trained correc-                  challenged the use of Tasers by
San Francisco Criminal Jus-                itation."                                         tional officers. Finally, given the              law enforcement for more than a
tice Task Force, Committee on                                                                recommendations of the Santa                     decade.
Tasers contacted the Oakland               Worth the Cost?                                   Clara County Blue Ribbon Com-
Police Department to determine                In June 2017, Taser expert Mi-                 mission on Improving Custody
how frequently Tasers were de-             chael Leonesio, was called as an                  Operations, the purchase and use
ployed.                                    expert witness before the San                     of Tasers in the jails runs counter
   "To help answer some of                 Francisco Police Commission on                    to the community's loud and re-
the questions, the BASF also               the potential costs of outfitting                 peated calls for a more humane
reached out to the Oakland Po-             all members of the SFPD with                      approach to incarceration.
lice Department (OPD) to deter-            Tasers. "During his testimony,
mine how often Tasers are used,            he estimated the first year in Call to Action
and how often they are effective.          costs to San Francisco at $8,000   When your community is faced
It is well known that LAPD re-             to $10,000 per officer which in- with a questionable police practice




                   Reprinted with permission from the Daily Journal. l!l>2018 Daily Journal Corporation. All rights reserved Reprinted by ReprintPros 949· 702· 5390.
    JtY Qf'i>ALO AlTO.CA
   CCl'fY CLERK·s Off\CE                             3101 Alexis Dr.

    18 JAM 24 AH \01 'S                              Palo Alto, CA. 94304

                                                    Jan. 19, 2018


City of Palo Alto

Board of Supervisors

County Executive: Jeffrey Smith

Weed Abatement Public Hearing Jan. 22, 2018

City of Palo Alto Leaders:




My husband and I have lived at the above address since 1981. We have taken care of the weed
abatement on our property, working with our gardener over several weeks, to clear vegetation.
We understand the need and appreciate the Palo Alto Fire Department who makes inspections
of our property every spring. When the Fire Department made their inspection, the weeds were
gone, and we have a copy of their assessment.

We are protesting the Weed Abatement fee to inspect our property of $90. We have always
maintained the 30 foot clearance, as evidenced by the Fire Department records, and will
continue to do so. Obviously, in years of heavy rain, we must start at the end of March, even
though the hillside is still wet, to comply with the County rules. We will do so.

Please consider our record of 37 years of compliance and rescind this onerous property
inspection fee.




Thank you,
~~~~'-f:/t.~~~
Diane Bottoms
                                  Federal Solutions Group (FSG)
1. Moraga-Orinda Fire Prot ection District notice of default1 (see attachment)
   "Termination of Agreement with Federal Solutions Group, Inc, (FSG} for Construction of Station 43
    Project. The District sent FSG a notice of default concerning its failure to comply with the terms of
    the construction contract. FSG was given an opportunity to cure by November 23, 2017. If FSG has
    not cured the default by that date, the Board will consider ratifying the Fire Chiefs letter terminating
    the agreement with FSG for the construction of the Station 43 project."

    Action Taken: A 5-0 vote resolved to terminate agreement with FSG at the November 28111 meeting of
    the board.


2. County of San Mateo Mental Hea lth and Substance Abuse Recovery Commission default 2 (see
   attachment)
   "Serenity House Delays Federal Solutions Group, the contractor for the construction of Serenity
   House has defaulted on the construction agreement due to financial reasons on October 31st. The
   bonding company required by the County, Fidelity, stepped in and has replaced the contractor with
   another at no additional cost to the County. The Board of Supervisors approved the contract
   yesterday. A new construction schedule is not finalized and the new construction company, but not
   delivered due to lack of payment. This latest turn of events will delay opening until late summer or
   fall ."

    Action Taken: FSG was replaced by another contractor.


3. Recent Contra Costa Superior court cases:
   A) Bond company is seeking over $1 Million from FSG (see attachment)
      FIDELITY VS. FEDERAL SOLUTIONS3
      Case#: MSC17-02195
      "Plaintiff Fidelity and Deposit Company of Maryland' s unopposed application for a right to attach
      order and writ of attachment is granted in the amount of $1,261,037 59 against Defendant
      Federal Solutions Group, Inc. dba Federal Constructors...." (see document for full text)

    B) Tentative ruling issued on January 2018 upholds default judgment for $253,000 against FSG
       (see attachment}
       PAPE MATERIAL VS. FEDERAL SOLUTIONS GROUPq
       Case#: MSC17-00754
       "This is an action to collect in excess of $160,000 al legedly owed on an agreement to rent
       equipment for use at the Camp Park and other construction projects. Defendant Federal Solutions
       Group, Inc., ordered the equipment and defendant Selina Singh guaranteed payment...." (see
       document for full text)




1 Moraga-Orinda Fire Protection District Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
2 County of San Mateo Mental Health & Substance Abuse Recovery Commission Unadopted Minutes
3
  Contra Costa Superior Court, Martinez, CA
4
  Contra Costa Superior Court. Martlnez, CA
        Moraga-Orinda Fire Protection District
                                     BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                                SPECIAL BOARD MEETING MINUTES
                                        November 28, 2017
                                   (Approved December 20, 2017)



1.   Opening Ceremonies
     The Board of Directors convened in Open Session at 9:00 A.M. on November 28, 2017 at the Hacienda
     Mosaic Room, 2100 Donald Drive, Moraga, California. President Famulener called the meeting to order.
     Present were the following Directors and Staff:

     Director Anderson (Teleconference)     President Famulener       Gloriann Sasser, Admin Services Director
     Director Jex                           Director Jergens          Jonathan Holtzman
     Director Barber                        Jerry Lee, Fire Chief     Geoff Spellberg

2.   Public Comment
     There was no comment from the public.

3.   Closed Session
     At 9:00 A.M., the Board adjourned into Closed Session.

4.   Reconvene the Meeting
     President Famulener reconvened the special business meeting of the Moraga-Orinda Fire District Board
     of Directors at 10:30 A.M. Present were the following Directors and Staff:

     Director Anderson (Teleconference)     Director Jergens                              Jonathan Holtzman
     Director Jex                           Jerry Lee, Fire Chief                         Geoff Spellberg
     Director Barber                        Gloriann Sasser, Admin Services Director
     President Famulener                    Grace Santos, District Clerk

5.   Report of Closed Session Action
     There was no reportable action taken in Closed Session on items 3.1 Conference with Legal Counsel -
     Potential Litigation, and 3.2 Public Employee Appointment (Fire Chief).

6.   Public Comment
     There was no comment from the public.

7.   Regular Calendar
     7.1 Termination of Agreement with Federal Solutions Group, Inc. (FSG) for Construction of
          Station 43 Project
          The Disttict sent FSG a notice of default concerning its failure to comply with the terms of the
          construction contract. FSG was given an opportunity to cure by November 23, 2017. If FSG has not
          cured the default by that date, the Board will consider ratifying the Fire Chiefs letter terminating the
          agreement with FSG for the construction of the Station 43 project.

           Motion by Director Jergens and seconded by Director Jex to ratify the Fire Chiefs letter formally
           terminating the agreement with FSG. Said motion carried a unanimous 5-0 roll-call vote (Ayes:
           Anderson , Barber, Famulener, Jex, and Jorgens).

     7.2   Retention of Construction Attorney for Station 43
           The Board presented a Letter of Engagement with Geoff Spellberg of Renne Sloan Holtzman
           Sakai LLP to provide legal services on the Station 43 project.

           Director Anderson commented that he had not seen a letter of engagement but does not have a
           problem with engagement. He would like to move forward and not delay the matter any longer.

           Motion by Director Jergens and seconded by Director Jex to approve the Letter of Engagement with
           Geoff Spellberg of Renne Sloan Holtzman Sakai LLP to provide legal services on the Station 43
           project. Said motion carried a unanimous 5-0 roll-call vote (Ayes: Anderson, Barber, Famulener,
           Jex, and Jergens).
Board Meeting Minutes                                                                                     Page2
November 28, 2017



       7 .3   Consider Establishment of a District Counsel Ad Hoc Committee
              The Board shall discuss establishment of a District Counsel ad hoc committee. President Famulener
              suggested keeping the same committee members who are on the Labor Negotiator Ad Hoc
              Committee - Directors Anderson and Barber.

              Motion by Director Jorgens and seconded by President Famulener to establish a District Counsel
              Ad Hoc Committee made up of Directors Anderson and Barber. Said motion carried a unanimous 5-
              0 roll-call vote (Ayes: Anderson, Barber, Famulener, Jex, and Jergens).

              President Famulener announced that the Board would like to calendar a special meeting for
              December 6, 2017 at 9:00 A.M.

8.     Adjournment
       At 10:40 A.M., President Famulener called for adjournment of the special meeting and announced that the
       Board would be returning to Closed Session.

9.     Reconvene the Meeting
       President Famulener reconvened the special business meeting of the Moraga-Orinda Fire District Board
       of Directors at 11 :45 A.M. Present were the following Directors and Staff:

       Director Anderson (Teleconference)    President Famulener
       Director Jex                          Director Jorgens
       Director Barber

10.    Report of Closed Session Action
       There was no reportable action taken on item 3.2 Public Employee Appointment (Fire Chief).

11.    Public Comment
       There was no comment from the public.

12.    Adjournment
       At 11 :45 A.M., President Famulener called for adjournment of the special meeting.




 For an audio recording of this and other Board meetings, please visit the MOFD District Board Meeting webpage
                                       hltp:/lwww.mofd.org/board/meetings
                    <COUNTY <il'F SAN MATEO
               MENTAL DALTH & SUBSTANCE ABUSE
                    RECOVERY COMMISSION

                                 Unadopted Minutes
                            Wednesday, December 6, 2017
                             225 37th Avenue, Room 100
                                      San Mateo

BOARD MEMBERS PRESENT: Betty Savin, Scott Gruendl, Pat Way, Cherry Leung,
Kate Pfaff, Dorothy Christian, Eduardo Tilado, Bill Nash, Don Mattei, Katherine Koss,
Isabelle Ulibei, Yoko Ng

STAFF: Jei Africa, Suzanne Aubry, Jairo Wilches, Karen Krahn , Pernille Gutschick

BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT: Wanda Thompson, Carol Marble, Patrisha Ragins, Eric
Wollan

OTHERS PRESENT (signed in):

CALL TO ORDER
The meeting was called to order at 3:05 p.m .

INTRODUCTIONS

APPROVAL OF TODAY'S AGENDA
    ..,. M/S/C Christian/Nash

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Approval of minutes from the November 1, 2017 Mental Health & Substance Abuse
Recovery Commission Meeting:
      ..,. M/S/C Christian/Nash
Approval of minutes from the November 21, 2017 Executive Committee Meeting
      ..,. M/S/C Christian/Nash

Correspondence, Announcements, and Public Comment
Pat Way - The commission meetings are recorded.

Erica Horn - California Clubhouse

Helene Zimmerman - Peer Program

Old Business
Action Item: The commission voted to approve submission of the MHSARC Annual with
coffection made on page 7 under Cordilleras Update.
• M/S/C Leung, passed unanimously.


New Business
Hall of Fame Nomination forms are being accepted. The deadline to submit is Friday,
January 12, 2018.



STANDING COMMITTEES

   A. Committee for Older Adults
      Pat Way reported
         1. Next meeting will be held on December 6, 2017 at 11 :00 a.m.

   B. Committee for Adults
      Reported by Dorothy Christian

   C. Committee for Children & Youth
      Reported by Betty Savin

MHSAUPDATE

DIRECTOR'S REPORT

Serenity House Delays
Federal Solutions Group, the contractor for the construction of Serenity House has
defaulted on the construction agreement due to financial reasons on October 31st. The
bonding company required by the County, Fidelity, stepped in and has replaced the
contractor with another at no additional cost to the County. The Board of Supervisors
approved the contract yesterday. A new construction schedule is not finalized and the new
construction company, but not delivered due to lack of payment. This latest tum of events
will delay opening until late summer or fall.

Health Plan of San Mateo and BHRS Annual Plan
The Health Plan of San Mateo (HPSM) and BHRS have agreed to develop an annual plan
that will set priorities and focus on efforts to strengthen the relationship between the two
parties. Central to the effort will be a process by which BHRS identifies specific areas to
improve, develops a proposal and presents to HPSM, which will then support the initiative
and assist with implementations. There will be 3 to 4 initiatives targeted for development in
Calendar Year 2018 with proposal originating with BHRS and refined with HPSM. This will
be a pathway to a strategic plan in the second and third years providing alignment and
linkages with respective enterprise planning and pilot programs.

Developing a Culture of Quality
The Commission was most likely informed previously that BHRS had hired Health
Management Associates (HMA) last year to provide an analysis of the Quality
Management Unit due to a change in the leadership of the unit and the introduction of new
managed care rules by the Federal government and State. HMA was to look for
opportunities to increase the focus of quality improvement and make staffing
recommendations. The report issued by HMA actually recommended that a "Culture of
Quality" needed to be developed agency-wide. Over the last few months, the report was
reviewed across the management ranks and agreement has aligned to move forward with
the effort. HMA has been retained for the current year and the scope of work includes:
Culture of Quality Strategy; Develop a single Model of Care across all clinics; Develop a
standardization Strategy; Assist with strengthening Clinical Leadership within BHRS; and
assist with continues integration with primary care.

External Quality Review Organization Visit
The annual EQRO program review is slated for December 14th and 15th. This review is a
Federal requirement for agencies using Federal funding. EQRO looks at quality,
timeliness, and access to health care services by on-site review. EQRO validates
performance measures, performance improvement projects, health information system
capabilities, state and county consumers satisfaction surveys, key activities and significant
changes, strengths, improvement opportunities, and makes recommendations. Consumers
and parents of child consumers are needed for participation in focus groups as part of the
review and should contact Claudia at (650) 573-2189. The parent group is 1:00-2:30PM on
12/13 and the adult is 10:15-11 :45AM on 12/14.

The two performance improvement projects for this review that are under way are 1)
Reduction of the use of "Not Otherwise Specified (NOS)" diagnoses; 2) Follow up to
hospital discharges. An example of performance measures and access data that the
EQRO will review includes:

       a. Time to first appointment: Adult 3 days, Youth 6 days, Both 4 days.
       b. Time to first find Doctor appointment: Adult 21 days, Youth 52 days. Both 25
          days
       c. Follow up to hospitalization within 7 days: Adult 45%, Youth 50%, Both 46%
       d. Hospital readmissions w/in 30 days: Adult 16%, Youth 2%, Both 15%
       e. No show rate for Psychiatrists: Adult 3%, Youth 2%, Both 3%
       f. No show rate for Therapists: Adult 3%, Youth 3%, Both 3%

One Last Quality Item
After over 250 days in recruitment, there is a successful candidate to fill our vacant Quality
Manager position. The announcement is forthcoming to allow for communication of this
result on the candidate's end of things.

San Mateo Legislation Becomes Law for Data Sharing
The County of San Mateo has participated with the Counties of Santa Cruz and Santa
Clara in the Silicone Valley Reginal Data Trust, which is one of a kind data project that
pulls information from Behavioral Health, Child Welfare, Probation, and Education
information systems real time, based on unique user permissions for the purpose of
improving child outcomes. AB 597 was approved by the Legislature and signed by the
Governor this last October and creates the first of its kind of data sharing authority that
pulls data from multiples systems, displays as a query, without actually removing data from
the agency information systems and storing it for the query. The legislation is one-step of
many to navigate the legal aspects of sharing this type of data and the platform being built
is so unique that Google CEO, Mark Zuckerberg, has contributed $3 million and a team of
engineers to develop it. The system's goal is to "stimulate change in the culture and
practice of how data is responsibly and ethically used to develop actionable solutions to
critical educational, health and social problems.

I am happy to entertain any questions at any time. Your service on the Commission is
greatly appreciated and BHRS is a better organization because of you!
Liaison, Task Force and Ad Hoc Committees:
There was nothing to report at the time of this meeting.



PROGRAM PRESENTATION

Adult System of Care - Crisis Services
Presented by: Karen Krahn, Deputy Director Adult Services
               Pemille Gutschick, Clinical Services Manager II

Development over the last Decade
  • 5150s to Psychiatric Emergency Services
  • Community Response T earn 1989
  • Crisis Intervention Training 2005
  • Field Crisis Collaborative Committee 2006
  • Psychiatric Emergency Response Team 2015
  • Serenity House 2018


5150s

   •    Criteria: Danger to Self, Danger to Others or Gravely Disabled due to a mental
        illness. Up to 72 hour hold written only by authorized personnel

   •    Destination: Peninsula Hospital or San Mateo Medical Center. Usually transported
        by police or ambulance/SMART

   •    Changes in the law - AB 1424
        San Mateo County form: Information from Family Member or Other Concerned
        Party

Community Response Team

   •    Provide services to mitigate the psychological reactions to a major community crisis
        or disaster and to enhance recovery.

   •    Multidisciplinary Staff from BHRS and Partner Agencies Family partners, peer
        support workers, clinicians, nurses, psychiatrists and other staff as needed.

   •    Members have many different skills in working with various populations (youth,
        adults and older adults)
   •    Different language and cultural response abilities
   •    Collaborates with Red Cross and other agencies when needed

   •    Recent Examples of Response: San Bruno Fire, Asiana Airlines Disaster, Outreach
        to School around Youth Suicide, North Bay Fires
Crisis Intervention Training
Joint Effort Between: National Alliance of Mental Illness (NAMI), Sheriffs Office and BHRS

   •   2005-2015 2 classes/year offered - 50 first responders trained
   •   2015 increased to 4 larger classes/year - 170 first responders trained
   •   Course is 40 hours, now mandated and consists of:
                       o Variety of training in understanding about Mental Illness,
                           Substance      Abuse , Deme11tia,       Intellectual disabilities,
                           Conservatorships, Specialty Populations such as Veterans.
                       o Family and Consumer Panels present their experience with
                           mental illness and other challenging circumstances.
                       o Site visits and roleplays to practice skills.


Field Crisis Collaboration Committee
County wide multidisciplinary meeting meets monthly and collaborate in between
meetings.

Purpose: Agencies working together to assist individuals in our community to recover and
engage in the appropriate services.

Participants: District Attorney's Office, Private Defender's, Specialty Court Programs, Law
Enforcement Jurisdictions, Probation, NAMI, Psychiatric Emergency, Aging and Adult
Services, Conservators Offices, Sobering Station, Detox Services Various community
Based Organizations serving people with mental illness, Various teams from BHRS.


Psychiatric Emergency Response Team PERT
  • Pilot program between the Sheriff's Office and BHRS, 1 detective and 1 program
     specialist
  • Resources for all deputies on patrol for consultation in the field .
  • Review all 5150s in the Sheriffs jurisdiction
  • Follow up on 5150s requiring support and connection to services
  • Participate in countywide efforts to serve the community.

Serenity House
   • Short term Crisis Residential Facility
   • In construction phase now
   • 10 bed capacity - Average stay 10 days

Purpose: To assist community members with public insurance who are experiencing a
mental health crisis that does not require hospitalization.

A safe place to stabilize and get connected to appropriate services needed.




Meeting Adjourned:                              The meeting was adjourned at 4:35 p.m.
Next MHSARC Meeting:                             January 3, 2018 from 3:00-5:00 p.m.
                                                 225 37th Avenue, Room 100
                                                 San Mateo, CA 94403


Next Executive Committee Meeting:                Tuesday, December 19, 2017, at 3:30 p.m.
                                                 2000 Alameda de las Pulgas, Suite 235
                                                 San Mateo

  PLEASE BE SURE TO CONTACT CHANTAE ROCHESTER AT 650.573.2544 IF YOU
  ARE UNABLE TO ATTEND EITHER TUE MHSARC OR EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
  MEETING.

  ln compliance with the American with Disabilities Act (ADA), auxiliary aids and services for
  this meeting will be provided upon request when given three-day notice. Please call
  650.573.2544.
                    CONTRA COSTA SUPERIOR COURT
                                   MARTINEZ, CALIFORNIA
                                     DEPARTMENT: 09
                                  HEARING DATE: 01/17/18


 8. TIME: 9:00 CASE#: MSC17-02195
CASE NAME: FIDELITY VS FEDERAL SOLUTIONS
HEARING ON APPLICATION FOR RIGHT TO ATTACH ORDER (FEDERAL
SOLUTIONS GROUP, INC)
"TENTATIVE RULING:*

        Plaintiff Fidelity and Deposit Company of Maryland's unopposed application for a right
to attach order and writ of attachment is granted in the amount of $1,261 ,037 .59 against
Defendant Federal Solutions Group, Inc. dba Federal Constructors. CCP Section 484.90
mandates that a right to attach order may be issued if a court finds all of the following : (1) the
claim is one upon which an attachment may be issued; (2) the probable validity of the claim is
established; (3) the attachment is not sought for a purpose other than the recovery on the claim
upon which the application is based; (4) the amount to be secured by the attachment is greater
than zero, and (5) the defendant has failed to prove that all of the property sought to be attached
is exempt.

        The requirements for when an attachment may issue are fulfilled. See CCP Section
483.010(a). These parties entered into an indemnity agreement which is a contract for the
direct payment of money. See CCP Section 483.01 O(a).The indemnity agreement executed by
lndemnitors (Defendants Federal Contractors, Bara lnfoware, Inc., Selina Singh and Manjinder
Singh) provides for issuance of multiple surety bonds in exchange for a broad right to immediate
payment from each of them, jointly and severally, for any losses sustained by Plaintiff or liability
faced by Plaintiff in connection with the bonds Plaintiff issued. See Grego Deel., paragraphs 5-
9. The total amount of the claim is readily ascertainable . See CCP Section 483.010(a). The
purpose of the attachment sought is to provide a basis for collecting amounts that Plaintiff may
ultimately be required to pay based upon the claims Plaintiff has already received on the bonds.
See Grego Deel., paragraph 20. At this juncture, Plaintiff seeks payment of $1 ,261 ,037.59, the
total amount of claims it has already received, a readily ascertainable number. The claim is also
not less than $500 exclusive of costs, interest and attorney's fees. See CCP Section 483.010(a)

        Further, Plaintiff did not receive any real property collateral to secure the indemnitors'
obligations under the indemnity agreement. See Grego Deel., paragraph 25. Hence, the
provisions of CCP Section 483.010(b) do not preclude an attachment in this matter.

        The probability of Plaintiff's claims has been established. As the named surety on the
bonds, Plaintiff is a guarantor of Federal Contractors (and others) primary obligations to perform
on the bonded contracts and pay their subcontractors and material suppliers. The Bond
Principals, including Federal Contractors, have the duty to perform the obligations owed to the
government agencies who awarded them the projects. The surety's duty to pay arises only if
the principal is unable to make full payment. If the surety Is compelled to make payment for
damages caused by the principal, the surety has a right to seek reimbursement from the
principal. See Civil Code Section 2832, et seq.; Cates Construction. Inc. v. Talbot Partners
(1999) 21 Cal.4th 28; 38. In signing the indemnity agreement, Federal Contractors (and others)
undertook an express contractual obligation to reimburse Plaintiff if Plaintiff needed to resort to
the bonds to cover expenses that could not be paid by Federal Contractors and others. The
claims received on the bonds (totaling $1 ,261,037.59) are set out in detail in the declaration of
Paul Gre o. See Gre o Deel., ara ra hs 11-16. Gre o has attested under oath that these

                                                 -5-
                    CONTRA COSTA SUPERIOR COURT
                                   MARTINEZ, CALIFORNIA
                                     DEPARTMENT: 09
                                  HEARING DATE: 01/17/18


sums have been sought from Federal Contractors but no reimbursement has been forthcoming.
Hence, there is an affidavit filed showing that the Plaintiff on the facts presented would be
entitled to judgment on the claim upon which the attachment is based. These claims further
appear conceded by Defendant.

         There is no indication that the attachment is sought by Plaintiff for a purpose other than
the recovery on the claim upon which the application is based. The amount to be secured by
the attachment is greater than zero, and Defendant Federal Contractors has failed to prove that
all of the property sought to be attached is exempt.

       Pursuant to CCP Section 484.040, this court is required to hold a hearing on this
application. Hence, all parties are to appear.


 9. TIME: 9:00 CASE#: MSC17-02195
CASE NAME: FIDELITY VS FEDERAL SOLUTIONS
HEARING ON APPLICATION FOR RIGHT TO ATTACH ORDER (BARA
INFOWARE, INC.)
*TENTATIVE RULING:*

See Line 8.




10. TIME: 9:00 CASE#: MSC17-02195
CASE NAME: FIDELITY VS FEDERAL SOLUTIONS
HEARING ON APPLICATION FOR RIGHT TO ATTACH ORDER (SELINA SINGH)
*TENTATIVE RULING:*

        Plaintiff Fidelity and Deposit Company of Maryland's unopposed application for a writ of
attach order and for a writ of attachment against Selina Singh in the amount of $1 ,261 .037.59 is
granted. Writs of attachment against debtors as natural persons are specifically sanctioned by
the attachment law. See CCP Section 483.010(c).

        The test for determining whether a writ may issue to a natural person is set out in
Advance Transformer Co. v. Superior Court (1974) 44 Cal.App.3d 127. Courts have applied the
Advance Transformer standard to determine whether a claim arises out of a trade, business or
profession under the current provisions of the attachment law, CCP Section 483.01 O(c).
Plaintiffs claim arises out of Selina Singh and Manjinder Singh's business. Selina executed the
indemnity agreement on behalf of herself. but she also signed the indemnity agreement as CEO
and President of Federal Contractors and Bara lnfoware. See Grego Deel. , paragraph 6.
Similarly, Manjinder signed the indemnity agreement, individually, and as Vice President of each
company. See Grego Deel., paragraph 6. Selina and Manjinder executed the indemnity
agreement, seeking financial profit and a financial stake in the success of their businesses,
acknowledging that they have a substantial, material and/or beneficial interest in one or more
indemnitors and principals obtaininQ bonds .. . See Greoo Deel., Exhibit 1. oaraQraoh 27(a).

                                               -6-
                    CONTRA COSTA SUPERIOR COURT
                                   MARTINEZ, CALIFORNIA
                                     DEPARTMENT: 09
                                  HEARING DATE: 01/17/18


Further, without the bonds, none of the indemnitors, would have been awarded the bonded
projects. State public works projects statutorily mandate performance and payment bonds as a
prerequisite to the award of contracts for public work. See Public Contract Code Section 7103
and Civil Code Section 9550 . It is therefore undeniable that Selina and Manjinder Singh were
able to profit through the extension of credit by Plaintiff on their behalf in their construction
businesses and an attachment may be issued pursuant to CCP Section 483.010(c).

        The probability of prevailing has been established and is discussed fully above. That is
true for the other requirements as well.

        The remaining issue with respect to the Individual defendants is whether Selina and
Manjinder Singh's residence (117 Mediar Court, San Ramon, California 94582), which they
recently transferred as a gift to their son , Kabir Singh, can be attached, and the transfer of the
deed voided . See Nash Deel., paragraphs 3-5(b) and Exhibit 2. Civil Code Section
3439.04(a)(1) declares a transfer of real property voidable as to a creditor if it was made with
actual intent to hinder, delay, or defraud any creditor of the debtor." Alternatively, Section
3439.04(a)(2) holds a transfer voidable if it was made without receiving a reasonably equivalent
value in exchange for the transfer or obligation, and the debtor either .. . (b) intended to incur,
or believed or reasonably should have believed that he or she would incur debts beyond his or
her ability to pay as they became due. "A plaintiff who suspects that the defendant-debtor has
fraudulently transferred assets in order to become judgment-proof may also enforce its claim
against the transferred property by way of a writ of attachment. See Whitehouse v. Six Corp.
(1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 527, 533; Civil Code Section 3439.07(b}.

        The evidence shows that Selina and Manjinder Singh transferred their real property to
their son, Kabir Singh, on August 31, 2017 as a gift, without receiving anything in return. See
Nash Deel., Exhibit 2. And, did so at the time, where Selina and Manjinder Singh knew their
personal obligations to Plaintiff under the indemnity agreement. See Grego Deel., paragraphs
11-13. Selina Singh had been sued personally in a number of the actions filed against Federal
Contractors and Bara lnfoware and Plaintiff's counsel had asked that Selina and Manjinder
Singh put up their house as collateral for the debts they owed to Plaintiff. Instead, Selina and
Manjinder transferred the house to their son for no consideration. This undisputed evidence
supports the conclusion that the Mediar property was conveyed with an actual intent to hinder,
delay or defraud Plaintiff. Hence, Plaintiff is authorized a writ of attachment against the Mediar
property as a voidable transfer. See Civil Code Section 3439.04(a}(1). Since Selina and
Manjinder Singh did not file a claim for exemption or any opposition, the court cannot yet
determine if the real property is subject to an exemption. See CCP Section 487.020; 487.070(a}.
This can be determined at the hearing.

       Pursuant to CCP Section 484.040, this court is required to hold a hearing on this
application and orders all parties to appear.




                                                -7-
                                                                                                            •


                    CONTRA COSTA SUPERIOR COURT
                                   MARTINEZ, CALIFORNIA
                                     DEPARTMENT: 09
                                  HEARING DATE: 01 /17/18


11. TIME: 9:00 CASE#: MSC17-02195
CASE NAME: FIDELITY VS FEDERAL SOLUTIONS
HEARING ON APPLICATION FOR RIGHT TO ATTACH ORDER (KABIR SINGH)
* TENTATIVE RULING:*

       See Line 10. Civil Code Section 3439.08(b)(1) gives Plaintiff the right to recover the
value of the voidable asset transferred, subject to subdivision (c) of that section or the amount
necessary to satisfy Plaintiffs claim, whichever is less, against the first transferee of the asset;
here, Defendant Kabir Singh.


12. TIME: 9:00 CASE#: MSC17·02195
CASE NAME: FIDELITY VS FEDERAL SOLUTIONS
HEARING ON APPLICATION FOR RIGHT TO ATTACH ORDER (MANJINDER P.
SINGH)
* TENTATIVE RULING: *

See Line 10.




13. TIME : 9:00 CASE#: MSL17-01945
CASE NAME: WATKINS, SCOTT, GUITON VS HOLB
HEARING ON MOTION TO/FOR SET ASIDE DEFAULT & DEFAULT JUDGMENT
FILED BY JULIE HOLBERT
* TENTATIVE RULING: *

 Unopposed -the Motion to Set Aside is granted. Defendant shall file her answer within 10 days
from the date of the hearing.



14. TIME: 9:00 CASE#: MSL17·01945
CASE NAME: WATKINS, SCOTT, GUITON VS HOLB
SPECIAL SET HEARING ON: OUTCOME OF MOTION TO SET ASIDE HEARING
SET BY DEPT. 9
* TENTATIVE RULING:*
                                                                                                       i'

See Line 13.




                                                -8-
                    CONTRA COSTA SUPERIOR COURT
                                   MARTINEZ, CALIFORNIA
                                     DEPARTMENT: 33
                                  HEARING DATE: 01/04/18


to add new claims related to easements or other property disputes between the parties aside
from Plaintiff's driveway and mailbox area.

        Plaintiff shall edit his proposed third amended complaint so that is complies with this
order. Plaintiff shall file and serve his third amended complaint by January 8, 2018.

       The Court intends to keep the trial date of February 5, 2018 for this case. If either side
wants to discuss discovery issues or other matters related to the new causes of action they may
appear at the hearing to do so. If any party wants to appear they shall follow the normal
procedures for contesting a tentative ruling.



2. TIME: 9:00 CASE#: MSC16-02428
CASE NAME: SENAVSKY VS. BOAMAN
HEARING ON MOTION TO/FOR COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES & DOCUMENTS TO
REQ. FILED BY WILLIAM E. BOAMAN, JEFF W. BOAMAN
*TENTATIVE RULING:*

Mr. Hammel and Mr. Vergel de Dios are ordered to appear in person. They will be given a room
in which to meaningfully meet and confer as to this new discovery dispute. If those efforts are
unsuccessful, parties shall be prepared to discuss the appointment of a discovery referee.


3. TIME: 9:00 CASE#: MSC17-00554
CASE NAME: MICHAEL ENGLE VS RICHARD ANTHO
HEARING ON MOTION TO/FOR COMPEL RESPONSES TO DISCOVERY & REQ FOR
SANCTN, FILED BY RICHARD ANTHONY, D.D.S.
*TENTATIVE RULING:*

Dropped per request of moving party on 1/3/18.




4. TIME: 9:00 CASE#: MSC17 -00754
CASE NAME: PAPE MATERIAL VS. FEDERAL SOLU
HEARING ON MOTION TO/FOR SET ASIDE DEFAULT AND DEFAULT JUDGMENT
FILED BY FEDERAL SOLUTIONS GROUP, INC.,, SELINA SINGH
* TENTATIVE RULING:*

        The motion of defendants Federal Solutions Group, Inc., and Selina Singh to Set Aside
Default and Default Judgment and for Continuation of Order of Examination is denied.

       1. Background.



                                                - 2-
                    CONTRA COSTA SUPERIOR COURT
                                   MARTINEZ, CALIFORNIA
                                     DEPARTMENT: 33
                                  HEARING DATE: 01/04/18


       This is an action to collect in excess of $160,000 allegedly owed on an agreement to rent
equipment for use at the Camp Park and other construction projects. Defendant Federal
Solutions Group, Inc., ordered the equipment and defendant Selina Singh guaranteed payment.

       Plaintiff filed its lawsuit on May 4, 2017. It served each defendant by substituted service
on May 12, 2017. It did the required mailing on May 16, 2017. (See CCP § 415.20 (a), (b) .)
Service was therefore deemed complete on May 26, 2017. (Ibid.)

       The default of each defendant was entered on July 7, 2017 and judgment for
$253,695.03 was entered on September 26, 2017. The judgment includes principal, interest,
attorney's fees, and costs.

        Plaintiff sought an order permitting a debtor's examination. The examination was
originally scheduled for November 14, 2017. However, defendants filed the instant motion to set
aside the default and default judgment, and the examination was continued to the hearing date
on this motion.

         Defendants argue the court should set aside their defaults and the default judgment
because they assumed some sureties would pay the debt. Plaintiff argues defendants have not
submitted sufficient proof that their neglect was excusable. Plaintiff further argues it has
suffered prejudice through expenditure of attorney's fees and possible loss of lien priority.
Finally, plaintiff argues that defendants delayed unreasonably in seeking relief.

       2. Analysis.

        "The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party . . . from a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him .. . through his . .. mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by
a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein , otherwise the application
shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six
months, after the judgment, dismissal, order. or proceeding was taken." (CCP § 473 (b).)

        Section 473 "is a remedial statute strongly favored by the courts and 'liberally applied to
carry out the policy of permitting a trial on the merits."' (Ramsey Trucking Co. v. Mitchell (1961)
188 Cal.App.2d.Supp. 862, 865.) Doubts in applying section 473 are resolved in favor of the
party seeking relief. (Caldwell v. Methodist Hospital ( 1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1521 , 1524.)

        For a defendant to be entitled to relief, his acts must have been those of a reasonably
prudent person under the same circumstances. (Conway v. Municipal Court (1980) 107
Cal.App.3d 1009, 1017.) "It is the duty of every party desiring to resist an action or to participate
in a judicial proceeding to take timely and adequate steps to retain counsel or to act in his own
person to avoid an undesirable judgment. Unless in arranging for his defense he shows that he
has exercised such reasonable diligence as a man of ordinary prudence usually bestows upon
important business his motion for relief under section 473 will be denied . ... The law frowns
upon setting aside default judgments resulting from inexcusable neglect of the complainant."
(Elms v. Elms (1946) 72 Cal.App.2d 508, 513 (emphasis added).) "Where the default occurred
as a result of deliberate refusal to act, and relief is sought after a change of mind, the remedy is

                                                -3 ~
                    CONTRA COSTA SUPERIOR COURT
                                   MARTINEZ, CALIFORNIA
                                     DEPARTMENT: 33
                                  HEARING DATE: 01/04/18


clearly inappropriate." (Davis v. Thayer (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 892 (internal quotations
omitted).}

       A party seeking relief under section 4 73 bears the burden of proving the relief is
warranted. (See Hearn v. Howard (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1205.)

               A. Excusable neglect.

       The sole evidence that defendants present to establlsh excusable neglect consists of
two paragraphs in the declaration of defendant Selina Singh.

        Singh acknowledges she was served in both her personal and corporate capacities.
Based on evidence submitted by plaintiff, the court concludes that Selina Singh was aware of
this lawsuit no later than May 26, 2017.

        Singh then declares: "[1J 6] Upon my review of the Complaint, I noticed that all of the
invoices set forth in the Complaint were to be paid by two sureties, which are payment and
performance bonds that guaranteed the payment of all of the rentals from [plaintiff]. I noted that
the sureties would be paying for all of the rentals, and I also noted that [bills of my husband's,
separate corporation] Barra ... were included and mixed into the Complaint. [1[7] Thereafter, I
had my husband, who worked at Federal Solutions, contact the sureties to ensure that they
were going to be paid. My husband reported back to me that all of the invoices would be paid,
so I understood that I did not have to respond to the Complaint because the invoices would be
paid by the sureties."

        This evidence fails to satisfy defendants' burden to establish the defaults were taken as
a result of excusable neglect. Selina Singh's declaration is vague, conclusory, and insufficient.
She states she noticed that the invoices were to be paid by two sureties, but it is not obvious
how she would notice this from the complaint, because neither it nor the attached invoices say
anything about sureties. She fails to explain why a surety would have a primary obligation to
pay an invoice, when presumably the surety serves only as a guarantor in the event the
principal fails to pay.

        Singh states that the complaint attaches invoices of a different corporation, but fails to
explain how she knows this . The court has examined the invoices, and does not see any
evidence that they reference a separate corporation . All of them list Federal Solutions as the
customer.

       Singh states that she had her husband contact the sureties, but fails to supply a
declaration from him providing a firsthand account of what the sureties told him, if anything,
even though he is still her husband and an employee of Federal Solutions, and he supplied a
Reply Declaration. She states her husband told her the invoices would be paid, not that they
would be paid by the sureties. She fails to state when her husband reported back to her. She
then says she reached a subjective conclusion that she did not need to respond to the
Complaint. She says nothing about what she thought as time went by and she continued to
receive documents from plaintiff about the Request for Entry of Default and the request for
judgment. (See Request for Entrv of Default filed 7/7/17 and Proof of Service dated 9/14/17.)

                                                -4-
                    CONTRA COSTA SUPERIOR COURT
                                   MARTINEZ, CALIFORNIA
                                     DEPARTMENT: 33
                                  HEARING DATE: 01/04/18



        Reliance on a third party to provide a defense may constitute excusable neglect. (See
Weitz v. Yankosky (1966) 63 Cal.2d 849, 855-856; Ramsey Trucking Co. v. Mitchell, supra, 188
Cal.App.2d.Supp. at 865.) However, defendants have not provided any admissible or credible
evidence that the sureties ever assured them of a defense or even of payment of the invoices.
Even if defendants' weak evidence of reliance were sufficient, there would still be a legal issue
whether defendants were required to establish that the sureties' failure to act was due to
excusable neglect. (Compare Scognamillo v. Herrick (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 1139, 1149 with
Rogalski v. Nabers Cadillac (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 816 .) Defendants have not presented any
evidence from the sureties regarding why the sureties' failed to act.

         However, defendants' weak evidence of reliance is not sufficient. Based on the
evidence submitted, the court finds that defendants did not exercise such reasonable diligence
as a person of ordinary prudence usually bestows upon important business either at the outset,
when they initially relied on Mr. Singh's report that the invoices would be paid, or, even more
clearly, over the succeeding several months, when payment was obviously not being taken care
of and the sureties did not pick up defendants' defense. Plaintiff offers the declaration of
Gabriel Herrera, one of its attorneys, who states that a representative of Federal Solutions
called him on August 4, 2017 to discuss the outstanding balance. The representative admitted
he was aware of the filings in the lawsuit, and thus of plaintiff's attempt on July 7, 2017 to obtain
not just a default, but also a default judgment. Yet Singh fails to provide any evidence of steps
that defendants took after August 4, 2017 to obtain assurances that the matter would be
handled by the sureties. The same is true as to the communications that plaintiff's attorney
Rossi had with defendants. (See Rossi Deel,~ 5, 6.)

         Defendant Singh made assumptions instead of gathering facts by consulting with
counsel, even though she had been sued for breach of contract in a previous case, General
Plumbing Supply v. Federal Solutions Group, Case No. C16-01142, which was pending in this
court in the same time frame as the complaint was being served and the default being entered
in this lawsuit, and she was represented for a time in that prior lawsuit by the same attorney who
is representing her here. (See Exs. 3, 4, and 5 to Defendant's Request for Judicial Notice.)
Making assumptions carries a risk that the court will find the assumptions erroneous and thus
the neglect inexcusable. (Jackson v. Bank of Am. (1983) 141 Cal.App.3d 55, 58 (Making an
assumption [that the case against the defendant bank was moot] "has its attendant risk: the
bank was wrong in its assumption and its neglect was not of the excusable variety.").)

        The court finds that defendants' neglect was inexcusable here. Defendants have not
cited any authority requiring plaintiff to seek relief from the sureties rather than from defendants
or preventing plaintiff from seeking relief from both simultaneously. (See CC § 2845 (surety
generally may require creditor to proceed against principal); 2850.) Thus, defendants have also
not established it was reasonable for them to assume they did not need to defend the lawsuit,
just because a surety might ultimately pay the debt. Even if defendants had established that the
sureties promised to pay the invoices, they have not established that the sureties promised to
provide them a defense in this action.




                                                -5-
                    CONTRA COSTA SUPERIOR COURT
                                   MARTINEZ, CALIFORNIA
                                     DEPARTMENT: 33
                                  HEARING DATE: 01/04/18


would resolve the matter and not that they made a mistake of fact or law that the surety would
defend the lawsuit for them just because it had legal exposure for the debt. The court finds that
the only thing which prompted defendants to finally make this motion was the fear that they
would have to go through a debtor's examination and explain which assets they still have and
which they have transferred.

       Plaintiff has cited several cases in which appellate courts have either affirmed trial court
denials of motions to vacate defaults or reversed trial courts and compelled denials. (See Davis
v. Thayer(1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 892 (denial of motion affirmed); Jackson v. Bank of Am. (1983)
141 Cal.App.3d 55 (grant of motion reversed); Scognamillo v. Herrick (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th
1139 (denial of motion affirmed); Shearman v. Jorgensen (1895) 106 Cal. 483, 495 (grant of
motion reversed). The neglect is as inexcusable. or as poorly proved, here as it was in those
cases.

               B. Delay.

        In Ludka v. Memory Magnetics International (1972) 25 Cal.App.3d 316, 321, the trial
court stated it was negligence to wait for three months after notice that a request for entry of
default had been sent to the court before filing a motion to set it aside. "'Defendant has not cited,
nor has independent research disclosed, any case in which a court has set aside a default
where, in making application therefor, there has been an unexplained delay of anything
approaching three months after full knowledge of the entry of the default.'" (Benjamin v. Dalmo
Mfg. Co., 31 Cal.2d 523, 529 . ..). (Ludka, supra, 25 Cal.App.3d at 322.)

       Here defendants waited five months. The court finds that defendants failed to bring their
motion within a reasonable time. It denies the motion on that basis as well.

       In their Reply Brief, defendants assert as evidence that Singh acted diligently and
reasonably that she was "still concerned" and that she "diligently contacted an attorney to
discuss this matter . . ."' (Reply Brief at 3:8.)

        The court disagrees that Singh acted diligently. Had she been diligent, she would have
contacted an attorney in July when defendants' default was entered, and not waited until early
November, after the judgment was entered on September 26, 2017. The court finds that this
motion was triggered by the threat of having to answer questions about defendants' assets
rather than by concern about the defaults.

         Defendants also cite Stiles v. Wallis (1983) 147 Cal.App,3d 1143 for the proposition that
the "California Supreme Court has indicated that orig inal negligence in allowing the default to
be taken will be excused if the aggrieved party makes a strong showing of diligence in seeking
relief soon after discovering entry of the judgment.'' However, the court in Stiles did not find any
such diligence, and it based this proposition on a prior case, Hallett v. Slaughter (1943) 22
Cal.2d 552, without giving a pin cite.

       In Hallett, the debtor promptly hired an attorney after being sued, and the attorney
mailed the Answer to the clerk of the court. Defendant thought the Answer had been filed, but it
had not been because it oat lost in the mail. The debtor only learned the truth when her salary

                                                -6 -
                     CONTRA COSTA SUPERIOR COURT
                                    MARTINEZ, CALIFORNIA
                                      DEPARTMENT: 33
                                   HEARING DATE: 01/04/18


was levied after judgment was entered. The trial court held she was not guilty of neglect at all -
a finding that the California Supreme Court did not disturb. The Court similarly left undisturbed
the trial court's finding that plaintiff did not discover the default earlier, at least in part, because
of "the apparently designed and deliberate failure of defendants to take earlier action to secure
and enforce their judgment." (Id. at 556.) The court noted that the debtor sought to vacate the
default judgment promptly after learning of it but never said that "original negligence in allowing
the default to be taken will be excused if the aggrieved party makes a strong showing of
diligence in seeking relief soon after discovering entry of the judgment." (Reply Brief at 3:9-11 .)

       Here, defendants knew all along that they had not filed an answer. They have not
provided firsthand evidence that the sureties made any original assurances to pay the debt or
defend the lawsuit, let alone any reassurances as the litigation continued to proceed.

        Plaintiff's Request for Judicial Notice flied 12/20/17

       The court grants this request for judicial notice to the fullest extent permitted by law.
(See Fontenot v Wells Fargo Bank (2011) 198 Cal. App. 4th 256, 264; Fremont Indemnity Co. v.
Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 113; Sosinsky v. Grant (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th
1548, 1564-1565; Yvanova v. New Century Mortgage Corp. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 919, 924, n. 1.)



 5. TIME: 9:00 CASE#: MSC17·00754
CASE NAME: PAPE MATERIAL VS. FEDERAL SOLU
HEARING ON ORDER OF EXAMINATION AS TO FEDERAL SOLUTIONS GROUP,
INC.,
*TENTATIVE RULING:*

Appear.




6. TIME: 9:00 CASE#: MSC17-01468
CASE NAME: ESPINOSA VS. AZARIAH
HEARING ON DEMURRER TO 1st Amended COMPLAINT of ESPINOSA FILED
BY GAGNE-MULFORD ENTERPRISES, INC.
*TENTATIVE RULING:*


Defendant Gagne-Mulford Enterprises, Inc. d/b/a Benjamin Franklin Plumbing's ("Ben Franklin"}
demurrer (the "Demurrer") is sustained without leave to amend. The Court concludes that, as a
matter of law. Ben Franklin did not owe plaintiff Darrin Espinosa {"Espinosa"} a legal duty.
As a preliminary matter, the Court declines to overrule or strike the Demurrer due to what
Espinosa says is defective notice. Espinosa was able to oppose the Demurrer in a timely
fashion, and Espinosa is on notice of the hearing date. Espinosa has identified no prejudice he


                                                  -7-
                                                                       co~~~ING

January 18, 2018
                                                                   l   [ ] ~d Bdi .re Meeting
                                                                       (..o1'Received al   ~leeting




Mayor Kniss, Vice Mayor Filseth and Council Members,
The members of the California Avenue Area Business Association (CAABA) listed
below have reviewed the staff report before you on Monday, January 22, 2018 that
proposes a reduction in the size of the new California Avenue garage. The proposed
reduction to only one sub-level rather than two is ill-advised and we ask that the Council
approve the original proposal that includes two sub-levels.

We understand the reduction is proposed as a cost-saving measure to help meet other
City infrastructure and transportation needs. We believe this is a short-sighted mistake
and strongly encourage the Council to approve the original design with two sub-levels
for the following reasons:

•   City representatives, from mayors to City staff, have been discussing a new garage
    with the Cal Ave business community for nearly 15 years. Over that entire time, the
    stated intention of the City was to build as large a garage as possible to
    accommodate the increased needs of the area.
•   It has been an ongoing discussion among both City and Cal Ave area businesses
    that the area should become a more vibrant commercial district serving more retail
    and residential needs. Based on that goal, the City encouraged area development,
    made multiple new enhancements to the avenue and approved multiple new
    developments with added customers and local workers that have brought increased
    business to the area, and , with it, increased need for parking (e.g. Visa's new office
    building, 3 active developments on Park Boulevard, new buildings proposed for
    Cambridge and Sherman Avenues, and several new restaurants). Older businesses
    expanded or upgraded, and new businesses located in the area based on the
    improved business climate for the district and in reliance on the understanding that
    parking deficits created by this intensification would be addressed with the largest
    new parking garage possible.
•   If there is a financial shortfall for the infrastructure needs of the City, we ask the
     Council to find other projects that may be deferred and authorize the original
     capacity Cal Ave garage which the City Council approved last Spring. For example,
     the $6. 7M upgrade of Fire Station #3 could be deferred without violating any
     deadline and would pay for the second level, or portions of the bike/pedestrian plan
     could be delayed for a period of time without any significant cost impact.

This 11th-hour change caught area businesses by surprise with almost no time for
review and response. The garage design and capacity· have been reviewed several
times with area businesses and residents and the proposal with two sub-levels was
approved by the City Council last Spring The proposal to significantly reduce the
capacity of the new parking facility is nothing less than a breach of faith with the
business community that has worked collaboratively with the City for so many years on
this project.
This is the last possible garage development for the California Avenue commercial
district. No other garage is planned or, even if envisioned, would be unlikely for the next
several decades. This is an opportunity that should not be short-changed or diminished
when there are viable options to build the garage the area needs and still meet other
infrastructure needs of the City. This priority has not changed and in fact the need has
intensified over the 15 years of review and discussion.

If the Council cannot approve the garage with two sub-levels, the matter should be put
over for a review of City infrastructure priorities, with time for the area businesses to
work with staff on an acceptable garage proposal.

Respectfully,


Jessica Roth: The Cobblery

Peter Katz: Managing Partner, Counter Intelligence LLC, The Counter

Robert Martinez: Palo Alto Eyeworks

Maxime Roucoule: Pastis

John Garcia: Mollie Stone's Market

Israel Rind: Izzy's Bagels
Abraham Khalil: Med Wraps

Terry Shuchat: California Avenue Property Owner (Keeble & Shuchat Photography)

Jack Morton: President, CAABA

Mora Oommen: Blossom Birth

Mike Meffert: Meffert Investment, LLC and California Avenue Property Owner

 Philippe Lehot: Villerousse Properties, LLC

 Malek Kaci: La Boheme
 Galen Fletcher: Sundance The Steakhouse

 Lynn and Bob Davidson: California Avenue Property Owners

 Hai To: Campus Barbershop

 Elena Silverman: Country Sun Natural Foods

 Jennifer Allen and Mike Maystead: PIP Printing
 Don Lundell and Gillian Robinson: Zombie Runner
Lara and Michael Ekwall: La Bodeguita del Medic

Dino Tekdemir: Anatolian Kitchen
Franco Campilongo: Terun & ltalico

Margot Goldberg: Palo Alto Central
Peter Brewer: Law Offices of Peter Brewer N. Brewer

Zareen Khan: Zareen's Restaurant

Aaron Ryan: Amity Cross Fit
Lori Villareal: True Salon & Calave Wine Bar

Jeff Davidson: California Paint

Chris Gaines: Performance Gaines

Anthony Secviar: Protege

Al Ghafouri: Printers Cafe
Rory Shannon: Summit Bicycles

Kyle Talbott: Grey Matters
Ann Vuong: La Jolie Nail Spa

Jack Morton, Chair
California Avenue Area Business Association
Copied
          for f~ll packet at the ~eq~est of Counci~ Me~ber Dick Rosenbaum~ ·
               ,.             .                                                I COUNCIL MEETir
                                     Cit~ of J'alo )l\to                            r1   Plac~-;frof.J..u.8
                                             CALIFORN I A                           ~edatMeeting
                                                   94   ~   0 I



 Le lie Y ~ 13atttni. t!l1rl. Pes 1'tit11lr                                         /;#&t /71111-et( td-1 in
 November 12, 197 5                                   rrt/m            !llafl/tfY   ;iJo~
                                                  '                        7


 Dear    Ne~    Resident of       Pa~o   Alto:

  In   abou~    three o!' fcur      we~ks,   you t::.11           ~e
                                            a resic!ent of the Ciry of Palo
 Alto.     As Mayor of the City, I          to welcome you and urge you to
                                                 wou:~ li~e
 cake advantage o! ye~~ new citizenship by partlcipating in city government
 and by taking advar.tage cf the broad array cf ci:y services whie~ Palo
 Alto has to offer.
  Within the next mont~, the City s ta:f will ".'.>e ::i.a~d.ng an effort .to acquaint
  you ~~rh how the Ci~y gove=~~e~t :~nct~ons, :.~eluding the =ole of the
  City Cou:·,cil, com.~iss::.c!1.s and ~ ca=- s . ~~:i ·- .:!:!"! ou= ~lans fc:: r:::-cviding
  se::vice to Barren Park. Inf-:ir.:a:ic~ ?ac'.<e : s ...::.11 ·::ie cielive=ec ::o your
• coor and neighbor~ood mee:ings are b ei~g sche~~la=.

 We-re-c~ze         ~;;m Pa::k is_ a.....:..:..11 1_~ ~i; gea and ::~at you ha·.re fought
                       that
 lcng a=d       ~ard
                to retain its specia:, ~ ural-like characte~. ,!-~ in~eL                 :-:-~~~~~~·~
 vcur vote to annex !:'.o t:~e C:!.::: as a ·:o:e cf con f idence ~n t!':.e Cir;y and
 ~ ex?ress!on of !aith in t~~ ':~:y,.s •.::.ilb~.ess ::o ~elp pr:se!'·.•e :hat
 character while pr~vid~ng a tigr.er l e~a: o: servica ::~an the Cn~n:y was
 able to offer.

  The City Council has adoptec scve::-a! policies concerning 3arran Park.
  They are: (1) tha:: ::he C!~y s~ppo=:s in p:inc~ple the desire of Barro~
  Park ta preserve and enhance Barre~ :a:k as a residential coa:munity made
  up predominantly of sir.gle-fa~:~7 ~~oes by kee?ing present R-1 zonin£
  intact (Council motion cf Hay 11 , : ~ 7 3 ) ; ar.C. (2) that the int nt of tbis           0

  City Council !s that n~ stree~ ~id~~!ng or str~et ccnstructio~ wil1 be
  U"dertaken in Barren Park except for t'esurfaci:tg 19 o! the 49 streets in
  order t~ restore them tc n sc~cd cc~d~tion for maintenance, and reconstruc-
  tion of a s·mall stretc~ of Para<!:..se Way; that co cu=b3, gutters or side-
  Yalks Yill be re~u1red on al~aady ce~icated streets; and that before
  Barron Park zoning is comprehensive:y ravie~ed, no denser land use than
  that whi:h is already a~ceptas!e uncer present county zoning Yill be
  allowed (Council motion, April 21, 1~75). Barron Park will be incor-
  porated into Palo Alto's Conprehensive Plar. 1 ·~~ich is curre~tly under-
  going review by the Planning Com::tission .

  In conclusion, we welcome Barron Pa~k to ?alo Alto and we agree with the
  proposition tha~ Barron Park should keep its own·specia! identity.
  Sincerely,

(~.:ta~,_, ,l-:/!~'?~
  ~~EY R. ~ORTON
  Mayor
112212018                          Changes in prices, sales, consumer spending, and beverage consumption one year after a tax on sugar-sweetened beverages in Berkeley. California. US: A before·and-after study




         ·.@9·PLOS
           • •
                   IMEDICINE
         Changes in prices, sales, consumer spending, and beverage
         consumption one year after a tax on sugar-sweetened                                                                                                                            COUNCIL MEETING
                                                                                                                                                                                          1-.:&,2-i S< .
         beverages in Berkeley, California, US: A before-and-after study                                                                                                                [ J Placed Before M~etmg
                                                                                                                                                                                        [ ] Received at Meeung
         Lynn 0 . Silver        , Shu Wen Ng            . Suzanne Ryan-Ibarra, Lindsey Smith Taillie. Marta lnduni, Donna R. Miles. Jennifer M. Poti,
         Barry M. Popkin
                                                                                                                                                                                   '
         Published: April 18, 2017 • https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pmed.1002283




         Abstract

         Background

         Taxes on sugar-sweetened beverages (SSBs) meant to improve health and raise revenue are being adopted, yet evaluation Is
         scarce. This study examines the association of the first penny per ounce SSB excise tax in the United States, in Berkeley,
         California. with beverage prices. sales, store revenue/consumer spending, and usual beverage intake.

         Methods and findings

         Methods included comparison of pre-taxation (before 1 January 2015) and first-year post-taxation (1 March 2015-29 February
         2016) measures of (1) beverage prices at 26 Berkeley stores; (2) point~of-sale scanner data on 15.5 million checkouts for beverage
         prices. sales, and store revenue for two supermarket chains covering three Berkeley and six control non-Berkeley large
         supermarkets in adjacent cities; and (3) a representative telephone survey (1 7.4% cooperation rate) of 957 adult Berkeley
         residents.

         Key hypotheses were that (1) the tax would be passed through to the prices of taxed beverages among the chain stores in which
         Berkeley implemented the tax in 2015; (2} sales of taxed beverages would decline, and sales of untaxed beverages would rise, in
         Berkeley stores more than in comparison non-Berkeley stores; (3) consumer spending per transaction (checkout episode) would
         not increase in Berkeley stores; and (4} self-reported consumption of taxed beverages would decline.




hllp://joumals .plos .org/plosmcdicine/article?id=10. l 371 /journal .pmc<!. I 002283                                                                                                                              )(24
1122/2018                       Ch:ingcs in prices, sales, consumer spending. and beverage consumption one year aft.er a taX on sugar-sweetened beverages in Berkeley. California, US>A before-and-after study




        Main outcomes and measures included changes in inflation-adjusted prices (cents/ounce), beverage sales (ounces}, consumers'
        spending measured as store revenue (inflation-adjusted dollars per transaction) in two large chains, and usual beverage intake
        (grams/day and kilocalories/day).
        Tax pass-through (changes in the price after imposition of the tax) for SSBs varied in degree and timing by store type and beverage
        type. Pass-through was complete in large chain supermarkets (+1 .07¢/oz, p = 0.001) and small chain supermarkets and chain gas
        stations (1.31¢/oz, p = 0 .004), partial in pharmacies (+0.45¢/oz, p = 0 .03). and negative in independent corner stores and
        independent gas stations (-0.64¢/oz, p = 0.004). Sales-unweighted mean price change from scanner data was +0.67¢/oz (p =
        0.00) (sales-weighted, +0.65¢/oz, p = 0.003), with +1 .09¢/oz (p < 0.001) for sodas and energy drinks, but a lower change in other
        categories. Post-tax year 1 scanner data SSB sales (ounces/transaction) in Berkeley stores declined 9.6% (p < 0.001) compared to
        estimates if the tax were not in place, but rose 6.9% (p < 0.001) for non-Berkeley stores. Sales of untaxed beverages in Berkeley
        stores rose by 3.5% versus 0.5% (both p < 0.001) for non-Berkeley stores. Overall beverage sales also rose across stores. In
        Berkeley, sales of water rose by 15.6% (p < 0.001) (exceeding the decline in SSB sales in ounces); untaxed fruit, vegetable, and
        tea drinks, by 4.37% (p < 0.001); and plain milk, by 0.63% (p = 0.01). Scanner data mean store revenue/consumer spending
        (dollars per transaction) fell 18¢ less in Berkeley (-$0.36, p < 0 .001) than in comparison stores (- $0.54, p < 0.001). Baseline and
        post-tax Berkeley SSB sales and usual dietary intake were markedly low compared to national levels (at baseline, National Health
        and Nutrition Examination Survey SSB intake nationally was 131 kcal/d and in Berkeley was 45 kcal/d}. Reductions in self-reported
                                                                           =
        mean daily SSB intake in grams (-19.8%, p 0.49) and in mean per capita SSB caloric intake (-13.3%, p 0.56) from baseline to                                     =
        post-tax were not statistically significant.
        Limitations of the study include inability to establish causal links due to observational design, and the absence of health outcomes.
        Analysis of consumption was limited by the small effect size in relation to high standard error and Berkeley's low baseline
        consumption.

        Conclusions

        One year following implementation of the nation's first large SSB tax, prices of SSBs increased in many, but not all, settings, SSB
        sales declined, and sales of untaxed beverages (especially water) and overall study beverages rose in Berkeley; overall consumer
        spending per transaction in the stores studied did not rise. Price increases for SSBs in two distinct data sources, their timing, and
        the patterns of change in taxed and untaxed beverage sales suggest that the observed changes may be attributable to the tax.
        Post-tax self-reported SSS intake did not change significantly compared to baseline. Significant declines in SSS sales, even in this
        relatively affluent community, accompanied by revenue used for prevention suggest promise for this policy. Evaluation of taxation in
        jurisdictions with more typical SSB consumption , with controls , is needed to assess broader dietary and potential health impacts.


        Author summary

        Why was this study done?

             >   Berkeley passed the first large (one cent per ounce) tax on sugar-sweetened beverages (SSBs) in the United States in November 2014, affording a unique
                 opportunity for evaluation.



hup://journals.plos.orglplosmedidne/articlc?id= I0.1371 /joumal .pmed. I002283                                                                                                                                   2/24
112212018                       Changes m prices, sales, consumer spending, and beverage consumption one year aft.er a tax on sugar-sweetened beverages in Berkeley, California, US, A before-.and·after study




             >   It was unknown to what extent people would change beverage purchasing in response to a tax, especially in a relatively prosperous community.

             >   Few high-quality evaluations from other countries existed; studies of Mexico's tax (implemented starting January 2014) found substantial but not complete
                 "pass-through" of the tax to consumers for taxed beverages. a 6% reduction in sales in the first year, and a 9% decrease in sales to lower-income
                 households.


        What did the researchers do and find?

             >   Three before-and-after studies were carried out: one of store scanner records from 15.5 million checkouts in two chains of large groq!ries in Berkeley and
                 comparison cities; one of 26 stores of various types in Berkeley: and one random digit dialing telephone survey of consumption by Berkeley residents.

             >   In the 15.5 million supermarket checkouts studied, 67% of the amount of the tax was passed on to consumers across all SSBs, and the tax was fully
                 passed through for sodas and energy drinks; In the 26-store survey, the tax was more than fully passed on in Berkeley large and small chain groceries and
                 gas stations, especially for carbonated beverages; partially passed on in pharmacies; and not passed on in small independent gas stations and corner
                 stores.

             >   Sales in ounces of taxed SSBs fell by 9.6% in relation to predicted sales in the absence of the tax, while sales of untaxed beverages rose 3.5% and total
                 beverage sales rose in Berkeley. Consumer spending per transaction (average grocery bill) did not increase, nor did store revenue fall more in Berkeley,
                 while SSB sales rose 6.9% in comparison cities.

             >   Berkeley residents were low consumers of SSBs at baseline (consuming only 34% of the national average of SSBs). Dietary intake surveys found shifts of
                              =                                                                     =
                 -19.8% (p 0.49) in mean daily SSB intake (grams) and - 13.3% (p 0.56) in mean calories from SSBs that were not statistically significant, while caloric
                 intake of untaxed beverages (milk and other diary-based beverages) increased.


        What do these findings mean?

             >   Berkeley's innovative tax on SSBs was mostly, though not uniformly, passed through to consumers, and sales of SSBs declined significantly, consistent
                 with published price elastfcity estimates.

             >   There was no evidence in studied chains of higher grocery bills for consumers, loss of gross revenue per transaction for stores, or decreases in overall
                 beverage sales for stores. While telephone respondents did not report changes in shopping location, scanner data were consistent with some increased
                 purchasing of SSBs in neighboring cities.

             >   The findings of this study, while limited by its observational design, suggest that SSB taxes may be effective in shifting consumers to purchase healthier
                 beverages without causing undue economic hardship and while raising revenue for social objectives.

             >   Population-based findings on SSB consumption were not definitive, and consumption should be further evaluated in more typical communities and with
                 larger samples.


             Citation: Silver LO, Ng SW, Ryan-Ibarra S, Taillie LS, lnduni M, Miles DR, et al. (2017) Changes in prices, sales, consumer
             spending, and beverage consumption one year after a tax on sugar-sweetened beverages in Berkeley, California, US: A
             before-and-after study. PLoS Med 14(4): e1002283. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pmed.1002283




http://joumals.plos.org/plosmedicinefarticle7id= I0.1371 /joumal .pmed. I002283                                                                                                                                  3/24
112212018                        Changes in prices, sales, consumer spending. and beverage consumption one year after a laX on sugar-sweetened beverages in Berkeley, California, US: A before-and-after study




             Academic Editor: Claudia Langenberg, University of Cambridge, UNITED KINGDOM

             Received: November 9, 2016; Accepted: March 10, 2017; Published: April 18, 2017

             Copyright: © 2017 Silver et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons
             Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author
             and source are credited.

             Data Availability: Data are from the UNC-PHI Berkeley Evaluation of SSB Tax study. Datasets from the de-identified
             telephone survey and from the 26 store survey can be made fully available without restriction upon request. The retail
             scanner data set is available in aggregate form combined across chains due to confidentiality restrictions required when
             obtaining voluntary data sharing from stores. The databases and accompanying documentation are available at:
             http://globalfoodresearchprogram.web.unc.edu/research-in-the-united-states/u-s-policy-evaluations/Berkeley-SSB-Tax

             Funding: Funding for this study came primarily from the Bloomberg Philanthropies, with support from the Carolina Population
             Center and its NIH Center grant (P2C HD050924) at The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Funders had no role
             design and conduct of the study; collection, management, analysis, and interpretation of the data; preparation, review, or
             approval of the manuscript; and decision to submit the manuscript for publication.

             Competing interests: BMP is on an NAS committee focused on preschool beverage consumption, chairs the Choices
             International Foundation scientific committee, has been a co-investigator of one random controlled trial funded by Nestle's
             Water USA, but has never consulted for them. BMP presented a paper on SSB global trends in a symposium at the British
             Nutrition Society symposium sponsored by Danone Waters. LOS is a volunteer board member of the Center for Science in
             the Public Interest and has worked as a consultant, both pa id and volunteer, for the World Health Organization, and
             organizations which have advocated for sugar sweetened beverage taxes. LOS has also donated to Berkeley's Measure D
             and advocated for its approval. SWN is on the expert advisory committee for the Philadelphia sweetened beverage tax
             evaluation project that is being conducted by researchers at University of Pennsylvania and Harvard University.

             Abbreviations: CPI, Consumer Price Index; SSS, sugar-sweetened beverage


        Introduction
        Sugar-sweetened beverage (SSS) consumption is linked to increased body weight, diabetes, cardiovascular risk factors, and dental
        caries, amongst other conditions [1,2]. Significant SSB taxes have been proposed and increasingly adopted as part of a
        comprehensive approach to obesity and diabetes prevention [3-5] with extensive potential health and social benefits [2,5-7]. Over
        20 countries have passed strengthened SSB taxes of varying sizes, with a growing emphasis on larger excise taxes [6,8-10].




http://joumals.pJos.org/plosmcdicinelruticle?id=I O. L37 l/joumal .pmed, I002283                                                                                                                                 4124
1122/2018                             Changes in prices, sales, consumer spending, and beverage consumption one year after a tax on sugar-sweetened beverages in Berkeley, California, US: A before-and-after study




        Berkeley, California, is the first US jurisdiction to successfully place a substantial excise tax on SSB distributors, with the dual goals
        of reducing consumption and raising revenue for efforts to prevent obesity and diabetes. The tax, approved by voters in November
        2014, is one penny per fluid ounce (1¢/oz) on beverages with added caloric sweeteners. In theory, the tax might add 68¢ to the
        price of a 2-1(68-oz) bottle of soda, typically priced a little over $2 before the tax, or 12¢ to a 12-oz can , sold for around $1 . In late
        January 2015, the city delayed the original 1 January 2015 Implementation until 1 March 2015 among the 38 largest beverage
        distributors [11]. Tax collection from small retailers obtaining their own supplies ("self-distributors") only began 1 January 2016. In
        2016, other US jurisdictions, including three large cities- Philadelphia {Pennsylvania), San Francisco (California), and Oakland
        (California)-and Cook County (Illinois), which encompasses Chicago's metro area, as well as two smaller cities-Boulder
        (Colorado) and Albany (California)-followed suit, with similar measures at tax levels from 1¢/oz to 2¢/oz.

        The Berkeley tax therefore offered a unique opportunity to evaluate this policy. This study sought to examine (1) whether and how
        the tax was passed through to beverage prices, (2) whether the volume of beverages sold changed, (3) whether store
        revenues/consumer spending per transaction within these stores changed, and (4) whether beverage consumption changed. This
        study evaluates changes in the first year of implementation (March 2015-February 2016).


         Methods
        Three data collection approaches were employed to measure beverage prices, volume sold, store revenue (or, conversely,
        consumer spending), and beverage intake. Fig 1 illustrates the tax implementation and study data collection timeline. Key elements
        of analyses were determined prospectively; however, some adjustments were required, particularly as we received and analyzed
        store scanner data.

                                         ..._
                                         _--- t
                                             __.
                                         --·-t
                                                                a.. r- -
                                                               -=-~
                                                                --.,_.......
                                                                _     .....

                Ol'tlJ ll:nlµj i"'
                        I


                     --
                     -  _
                        ·      ,...                                              --
                                                                                 -·         ......
                 ----
                                                                               ,...... ,~




                 - ·-..
                --
                - -·
                    - ~-
                                                                        =
                                                                       _ ,....,.._



             Fig 1. Berkeley sugar-sweetened beverage tax implementation and evaluation timeline.
             https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pmed.1002283.g001


        This study was approved by institutional review boards of the Public Health Institute and the University of North Carolina at Chapel
        Hill.


llllp://joumals.plos.org/plosmedicinelarticle?id= I0, l 371 /joumal .pmed. l 002283                                                                                                                                   5124
112212018                        Changes in prices, sales, consumer spending, and beverage consumption one year a!lcr a tax on sugar-swc~tcncd beverages in Berkeley, California, US: A bc:forc-ond-aftcr study




        Setting. The city of Berkeley, located in California's Bay Area, had an estimated 121,000 inhabitants in 2015 and covers only 10.5
        square miles. Residents are 55% non-Hispanic white, 19% Asian, 11% Hispanic or Latino, 10% African-American, and 21% foreign-
        born. Berkeley is home to a large public university and a very highly educated population, with 71 % of those over age 25 y holding
        a bachelor's degree or higher. Nevertheless, it has a high percentage of residents in poverty (20.4% versus 15.3% for California
        and 13.5% nationwide), though the median income of $66,237 is about 10% above the median for the state as a whole and 23%
        above the US median (12).

        Store price surveys. Store price surveys were conducted in December 2014 (pre-tax), June 2015 (4 months post-tax), and March
        2016 (13 months post-tax, and 2 months into self-distributor tax collection) among a targeted sample of large supermarkets, small
        chain supermarkets, chain and independent gas stations, pharmacies (drugstores), and independent corner stores located in
        Berkeley, California (n = 26). Six top stores were identified from the telephone survey (described below), and the remainder were
        selected randomly within their type. Store price surveys collected 744 prices in December 2014, 798 prices in June 2015, and 633
        prices in March 2016 for a standard panel of 70 beverages, which included 45 taxed and untaxed branded beverages in a variety of
        sizes. It was possible to collect 313 prices for 55 of the 70 products in the standard panel in all three rounds in the same stores. S1
        Text provides details on the store price survey design.

        Point-of-sale data. Point-of-sale electronic scanner data were requested using personal outreach to all large supermarkets in
        Berkeley, as well as to pharmacies, small supermarkets, ethnic markets, convenience stores, and gas stations with scanner
        systems, and with extensive follow-up as needed to owners or corporate headquarters. Ultimately, two chains of large
        supermarkets with three of the city's nine large groceries provided electronic data covering 1 January 2013 through 29 February
        2016 (26 months pre-tax; 12 months post-tax). They also provided data on six Bay Area control stores. Data covered 118.8 million
        barcode scans from 15.5 million transactions (checkout episodes), with 16.2 million barcode scans involving beverages (16,769
        unique barcodes), of which 10.8 million barcode scans (5,631 unique barcodes) are included here. S2 Text describes the point-of-
        sale study design and the stores and beverage products included in our analyses. The tax status of each beverage was classified
        using the Berkeley law [13], nutrition data from product websites, and ingredient data from Mintel [14] .

        Dietary and shopping behavior surveys. These telephone surveys were conducted November-December 2014 (pre-
        tax/baseline) and November-December 2015 (post-tax/follow-up). The sample was identified using dual frame (landline/cellular)
        random digit dialing that oversampled lower income census blocks (>50% of households with annual gross household income
        <$100,000) in Berkeley. Only Berkeley residents were interviewed. Oral informed consent was obtained from all participants.
        Trained interviewers used standardized questionnaires and computer-assisted telephone interviews to collect information on
        beverage shopping locations and behaviors, demographics, and 24-h recall of beverage intake [15]. To adjust for typical daily
        intake, a second 24-h beverage recall interview was collected 3--7 d later from consenting respondents.

        Sampling weights were calculated using iterative proportional fitting (raking) [16] to adjust the data to demographic proportions for
        Berkeley, California, obtained from the United States Census Bureau for 2010 (12). Details on the sample design, other methods,
        and response rates are found in SS Text. Caloric intake from beverages consumed was calculated using nutrition data from product
        websites, nutrition facts panel data from Mintel [14), and US Department of Agriculture databases [17, 18J.

        Analytical approaches




hltp:l/joumals.plos .org/plosmedicine/article7id~ J0 1371 ljoumal .pmed. I 002283                                                                                                                                 6124
1/22/2018                        Changes in prices, sales, consumer spending, and beverage consumption one year after a taX on sugar-sweetened beverages in Berkeley. California. US: A beforc-nnd-aftcr study



        Changes in prices.

        Prices were calculated based on prices paid, excluding sales tax and California Redemption Value bottle fee. Inflation-adjusted
        prices were derived by applying the US Bureau of Labor Statistics Consumer Price Index (CPI} for the monthly average price of
        non-alcoholic beverages [19] to price measures, using January 2013 as the base. To measure changes in price after imposition of
        the tax, known as "pass-through," using prices from the store price surveys, we compared the mean prices in cents/ounce of
        beverage products collected across the 26 stores in Berkeley at three time points (December 2014, June 2015, and March 2016}
        using paired /-tests. Data were analyzed using only beverages that could be matched for product and size across all three rounds,
        reflecti ng same product prices, rather than total consumer experience. For details see S1 Text.

        Point-of-sale data included repeated measures of beverages sold (at barcode level) at both Berkeley and non-Berkeley stores,
        during both pre-tax and post-tax periods (see S2 Text for details). We used a fixed effects approach using the price (cents/ounce) of
        taxed beverages per barcode-month-store as the outcome, controlling for month-year (relative to January 2013} and potential
        underreporting due to data that were missing completely at random because of technical (data storage) issues for some stores on
        random days that contributed to the monthly value. For model specifications, see S3 Text. From the models, adjusted beverage
        prices (cents/ounce} in Berkeley versus non-Berkeley stores overall and by beverage category were derived. Since the tax
        implementation timeline was altered, the January-February 2015 period was ambiguous with regards to tax implementation and
        price change, so we compared prices from March-December in 2016 to the same 10-month period in earlier years. All analyses
        were conducted in Stata 13 [20].

        Changes in sales and store revenue (consumer spending).

        Store-day data on the volume of taxed and untaxed beverages (ounces per transaction) and average daily store revenues (CPI-
        adjusted dollars per transaction) from all sales were the key outcomes and were modeled separately. We examined whether there
        were differences in these outcomes in non-Berkeley stores by distance from Berkeley. Comparison stores were classified into
        zones: zone 1, adjacent to Berkeley (two stores in two citres); zone 2, San Francisco (one store); and zone 3, ~20 miles (three
        stores in three cities) (see map in S4 Text). Since the beverage volume distributions (and their residuals) were skewed, outcomes
        were log-transformed to normalize distributions. For the volume outcomes, ordinary least squares models were used, with controls
        for store ID, day of week, holiday and holiday eve, month, year, number of transactions (linear and quadratic), a post-tax indicator,
        and interactions of store ID with the post-tax indicator, month, and year, correcting the standard errors by clustering the analyses at
        the city level. A similar model was used for revenue per transaction (a measure of the gross revenue for the stores as well as
        customer's spending in these stores), excluding number of transactions as a control.

        To test whether the post-tax trend in sales differed significantly from the pre-tax trend, we predicted taxed and untaxed beverage
        sale volume and store revenue per transaction if the post-tax indicator= 0 during March 2015-February 2016 (i.e., a
        "counterfactual" for if the tax had not been implemented [9]) and compared these predicted values to the adjusted volumes
        observed during the post-tax period, For detailed specifications, see S4 Text

        Changes in usual intake of beverages.

        Using a repeated cross-sectional approach, the National Cancer Institute method was used to estimate the usual intake distribution
        (kilocalories/day and grams/day) of taxed and untaxed beverages in each year, controlling for age, gender, race/ethnicity,
        education, income, weekend (including Friday), and recall sequence [21 ,22}. To account for the large proportion of nonconsumers


http://jouma.ls.pios.org/p!osmedicinc/article?id= l 0.1371/joumal .pmed. I002283                                                                                                                                 71'1A
112212018                           Changes in prices, sales, consumer spending, and beverage consumption one year after a tax on sugar-sweetened beverages in Berkeley, California, US: A before-and-after study




        for taxed beverages, a two-part probability-amount nonlinear mixed model was fitted [23,24], while a one-part nonlinear mixed
        model was fitted for untaxed beverages. Standard errors were estimated via bootstrapping, with 200 replications. The primary
        outcomes of interest were change in calories and grams consumed from taxed beverages, using a two-sided test with statistical
        significance set at p < 0.05. For modeling approach, see SS Text.


        Results
        Store price survey prices

        Prices of taxed beverages collected in all three time points across targe supermarkets showed increases from December 2014
        (pre-tax) to June 2015 (1 .31 ¢/oz), which continued for December 2014 to March 2016 (1 .07¢/oz). Taxed beverages in small chain
        supermarkets and gas stations also had price increases from December 2014 to June 2015 (2.20¢/oz) that continued through
        March 2016 (1 .31¢/oz). Price increases were comparatively lower in pharmacies for both intervals (0.90¢/oz and 0.45¢/oz) and
        were not seen in independent corner stores and gas stations (-0.09¢/oz and - 0 .64¢/oz) (S3 Table). The difference between prices
        of taxed and untaxed beverages (cents/ounce) increased in all store types between December 2014 and March 2016, except for
        beverages sold in independent corner stores and gas stations (Fig 2).




                           ,.,.   ...,
                                  ......
                                  ""
                                                  ·-        ......,..,._,,.,
                         i..,......--..-     t.ewrl~

                              .~,          -~··
                                           ~·-~!;"·l't




                                             •r
                                                  ...
                                                  ,..,._


                   ...
                                     DTIMd--           _.., _ _




            Fig 2. Store price survey mean (95% Cl) beverage price changes (cents per ounce) in Berkeley stores.




http://joumals.plos.org/plosmcdicine/article'1id=10.137 I/journal .pmcd. I002283                                                                                                                                    8124
112212018                       Chnnges in prices, sales, consumer spending, and beverage consumption one year after a tax on sugar-swcelcned beverages in Berkeley. California, US: A before-and-after study




            Top: price change between December 2014 (round 1) and March 2016 (round 3). Bottom: price change between December
            2014 (round 1) and June 2015 (round 2). Sample limited to 55 product types with 313 prices across stores that were collected
            in all three rounds of the store price survey; of these, 56% were prices for taxed beverages and 44% for untaxed beverages.
            Prices account for inflation. Values in bold italics show the price difference between taxed and untaxed beverages.
            *Statistically significant difference between prices in later round (March 2016 or June 2015) compared to December 2014 at p
            < 0.05 using paired t-tests. **Statistically significant difference between prices in later round (March 2016 or June 2015)
            compared to December 2014 at p < 0.01 using paired t-tests. :t:statistically significant difference of price of taxed beverages
            compared to untaxed beverages at p < 0.05 (unpaired t-tests since taxed and untaxed beverage items are different). Source:
            store price survey data collected by Public Health Institute.
            https ://doi . org/10. 1371~ournal.pmed .1002283. g002



        Point-of-sale prices from two supermart<et chains

        Fig 3 shows the model adjusted sales-unweighted beverage prices in Berkeley and non-Berkeley stores, illustrating the price
        differential for taxed versus untaxed beverages and change in prices of taxed beverages over time. Among taxed beverages, there
        were visible price increases in Berkeley stores after January 2015, but it was not until around April 2015 that prices stabilized.
        Specifically, among the Berkeley stores, taxed beverages had price change of +0.83¢/oz (p < 0.001), while this was only +0.16¢/oz
        (p < 0.001) in non-Berkeley stores, for a net difference of +0.67¢/oz (p < 0.001). Meanwhile, there were no statistically significant
        differences in the prices of untaxed beverages between Berkeley and non-Berkeley stores in the post-tax period. Sales-unweighted
        pass-through was complete among sodas and energy drinks (+1.09¢/oz), but incomplete for the other taxed beverage groups (S8
        Table). Sales-weighted price changes for taxed beverages was similar, at +0.69¢/oz (S9 Table).




            Fig 3. Point-of-sale model adjusted beverage prices (cents per ounce) in Berkeley versus non-Berkeley stores (sales unweighted).
            Fixed effects models account for the month-year (indicator variables), store located or not located in Berkeley, interaction of
            Berkeley store and month-year, and an indicator variable of underreported sales data from each store in particular month.
            Prices account for inflation. Vertical lines demarcate the pre-tax period (January 2013-December 2014), the ambiguous
            period (January- February 2015), and the post-tax period (March 2015-February 2016). Full sales-unweighted results can be


http:l/joumals.plos .org/plosmedicine/article?id= I0.1371 ljoumal .pmed. I002283                                                                                                                                9/24
112212018                        Changes io prices, sales, consumer spending, and beverage consumption One ye<!! after a rax on sugar-sweelcocd beverages in Berkeley, California, US: A before-and-after study




             found in SB Table. Full sales-weighted results can be found in S9 Table. 0 Statistically significant difference between the
             Berkeley and non-Berkeley prices for March-December 2015 at p < 0.01 . Source: point-of-sale data from two chains of large
             supermarkets in the Bay Area obtained by the Public Health Institute.
             https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pmed. 1002283.g003


        Point-of-sale volume sold In two supermarket chains

        The volume of untaxed beverages sold was consistently higher than for taxed beverages in all locations January 2013-February
        2016 (Fig 4), and both types of sales were consistently and markedly lower in Berkeley than in comparison stores overall, and most
        notably in neighboring zone 1 stores, suggesting lower baseline purchasing of SSBs and of beverages in general.




http://joumals.plos.org/plosmcdicinc/article?id=I 0 .137 1fjouroal .pmed.l002283                                                                                                                                  10/24
1/22/2018                                   Changes in prices. sales, consumer spending, and beverage consumption one year after a taX on sugar-sweetened beverages in Berkeley. California, US: A before-and-after study




                                                              ~
                                                                                          -b~l
                                                                                                      .
                                                                                          ...,._-.., .....,,,,..
                                                          , ' : . ....          ~ 1i ~1'1'fil\.••
                                                                         ....   •. , .. • ,ti •
                                     ....
                                            . ....... l
                                                      l




               0




               1: ·-
                                      -~o.,       .....                  n- ·


                l
               ! ..
               . .....    '" " ..

                         -· ..-. --
                         ,......__      _
                    - ...._--........ -· -- -..
                    ~




                                      ---....·c......,
                                                   ~ .....,
                                                                                     a....:t• • ••"




             Fig 4. Point-of-sale adjusted mean daily volume of beverages sold (ounces per transaction) in Berkeley versus non-Berkeley stores.
             (A) Point-of-sale taxed beverage volume sold (ounces per transaction).(B) Point-of-sale untaxed beverage volume sold
             (ounces per transaction) .(C) Point-of-sale taxed and untaxed beverage volume sold (ounces per transaction).(D) Percent
             change in post-tax untaxed beverage sales (ounces per transaction) in relation to counterfactual in Berkeley and non-
             Berkeley stores. Models account for store ID, month, year, day of week, holiday and holiday eve, number of transactions
             (linear and quadratic} , a post-tax indicator, and interactions of store ID with the post-tax indicator, month, and year variables,
             correcting the standard errors by clustering the analyses at the city level. Back-transformation uses Duan smearing. Model n
             = 10,152. Vertical lines demarcate the pre-tax period (January 2013-December 2014). the ambiguous period (January-
             February 2015), and the post-tax period (March 2015-February 2016). To derive the counterfactuals, we predicted the volume
             of taxed and untaxed beverages sold if the post-tax indicator= 0 for March 2015-February 2016. Full results can be found in



http(//joumals.plos.orglplosmedicine/articlc?id;;: I0.1371 /journal .pmcd. I0022&3                                                                                                                                          11 /24
1122/201 8                         Changes in prices, sales, consumer spending, and beverage consumption one yenr after a tax on sugar-sweetened beverages in Berkeley, California, US: A before-and-after study




             S10 and S11 Tables. *Statistically significant difference between the counterfactual and observed volumes sold during the
             entire post-tax period at p < 0.05. **Statistically significant difference between the counterfactual and observed volumes sold
             during the entire post-tax period at p < 0.01 . Source: point-of-sale data from two chains of large supermarkets in the Bay Area
             obtained by the Public Health Institute.
             https://doi .org/10. 1371 /journal. pmed .1002283.g004


        Focusing on the post-tax period, our model adjusted estimates show that compared to their counterfactuals, volume
        (ounces/transaction) of taxed beverages sold fell significantly by 9.6% in Berkeley stores, but rose by 6.9% in non-Berkeley stores
        (Fig 4A), sales of untaxed beverages rose by 3.5% in Berkeley stores and 0.5% in non-Berkeley stores (Fig 4B), and sales of all
        study beverages increased by 0.7% and 1.5% in Berkeley and non-Berkeley stores, respectively (Fig 4C). In Berkeley, sales of
        untaxed water rose by 15.6%; untaxed fruit, vegetable, and tea drinks, by 4.37%; and plain milk, by 0.63%. Sales of diet soft drinks
        and energy drinks declined by 9.2% compared to their counterfactuals (Fig 40).
        S10 Table provides the absolute (ounces/transaction) and relative (percent) differences between the counterfactual and post-tax
        monthly beverage sales in Berkeley versus non-Berkeley stores overall and in the three non-Berkeley zones. Neighboring non-
        Berkeley stores (zone 1) had the highest increase in sales of taxed and untaxed beverages, whereas sales of taxed beverages
        declined in more distant zone 3. S 11 Table shows the results by untaxed beverage category for Berkeley versus non-Berkeley
        stores.

        Point-of-sale store revenue (consumer spending) per transaction In two supermarket chains

        Over the first year of the SSB tax, across both comparison and Berkeley stores, there was a small reduction in revenue in CPI -
        adjusted dollars per transaction from all sources (not just beverages). Mean store revenue per transaction fell by 18¢ less in
        Berkeley stores (-$0.36, p < 0.001) compared to non-Berkeley stores (-$0.54, p < 0.001) (see Fig 5) .


                 ..                                                    .._............
                                                                       -·-               .........   ,~




                                                                          ~.:~··
                                                                     (\ ..~>t·--·
                                                                  ~(\\
                                                                                             '...,. ,. .. M-'
                                                                ."'.'.                       ••"" ~lO'I




                        ---...........- .~
                        .   ............,~   ..............   _...._     .......
                                                              _..............,,.......
             Fig 5. Point-of-sale adjusted mean store revenue/consumer spending (dollars per transaction) in Berkeley versus non-Berkeley stores.




hnp://joumals .plos.org/plosmedicine/article'Jid:. I0 .1371 /joumal .pmcd. I002283                                                                                                                                 12124
112212018                              Changes in prices, sales, consumerspcnding, and beverage consumption one ye31 after a iax on sugar-sweetened beverages in Berkeley, Cnlifomia, US: A before-and-after study




            Models account for store ID, month, year, day of week, holiday and holiday eve, a post-tax indicator, and interactions of store
            ID with the post-tax indicator, month, and year variables, correcting the standard errors by clustering the analyses at the city
            level. Revenues account for inflation. Vertical lines demarcate the pre-tax period (January 2013-December 2014), the
            ambiguous period (January-February 2015), and the post-tax period (March 2015-February 2016). To derive the
            counterfactuals, we predicted the volume of taxed and untaxed beverages sold if the post-tax indicator O in March 2015-                                         =
            February 2016. ~*Statistically significant difference between the Berkeley and non-Berkeley store revenues during the post-tax
            period at p < 0.01 . Source: point-of-sale data from two chains of large supermarkets in the Bay Area obtained by the Public
            Health Institute.
            https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pmed.1002283.g005


        Usual Intake of beverages from self-reports

        At baseline (November-December 2014), 649 of 3,721 eligible and contactable Berkeley residents age ~18 y participated (17.4%
        cooperation), of whom 253 completed a second 24-h beverage recall. At follow-up (November-December 2015), 654 Berkeley
        residents participated, and 462 completed a second 24-h beverage recall; 346 (53.3%) of the 2015 respondents had completed the
        baseline survey. After exclusion due to missing values on self-reported race/ethnicity, age, education, income, and monthly intake of
        SSBs, the final analytic sample included 623 at baseline and 613 at follow-up.
        S12 Table provides details on beverage subcategories by tax status and percent consumers within subcategory before and after the
        tax.. The Berkeley sample had lower per capita and per consumer mean caloric intake from both taxed and untaxed beverages
        relative to the general US population (S13 Table). At baseline, 29% of the Berkeley sample consumed SSBs, substantially below
        the 58% of consumers in the US population estimated in the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey. Daily usual taxed
        beverage intake was 121 g/d pre-tax and 97 g/d post-tax (-13.3%, p = 0.49), while mean caloric intake of taxed beverages went
        from 45 kcal/d to 39 kcal/d (-19.8%, p = 0.56) (Table 1); neither difference is statistically significant. From the pre- to post-tax
        period, mean volume of untaxed beverage intake went from 1,839 g/d to 1,897 g/d (+3.2%, p 0.21). Reported mean caloric intake                     =
                                                                                                                       =
        of untaxed beverages rose from 116 kcal/d to 148 kcal/d (+27.6%, p 0.02). The increase in untaxed calories appeared to be
        mainly from increased milk intake and also "other" beverages (which included dairy-based beverages such as yogurt smoothies
        and milkshakes). Neither juice nor diet soda intake increased. There was no significant change in reported beverage shopping
        location: "in Berkeleyn was 90% at baseline versus 94% at follow-up (p 0.17).                                      =


               -...
                      . - ·-
               n.._..,...
               .,.._........,.             o' I
                                                         ~ • •>
                                                         _.• kn
                                                                          "'
                                                                          tta
                                                                                  ' H 'h f          _    ,,... W
                                                                                                    ,.r--u.


               ___... _--..-.................-..-----,
                                                                                  1,.&uu
               ..._
                                                        ...... - ...--·----.
                       ...., ~

               ........~
               ---.....
                                 _.._...
               ..........---..-·-----.
                                             _...____
                                           ""'
                                           ''"" •
                                                         ..,... • ...,>
                                                         ·-        ~-·
                                                                          ...
                                                                          •4"9•

                                                               . ......._,---
                                                                                  .... ... .p
                                                                                  • ....,, ,_.
                                                                                                .   ........ . . ...
                                                                                                    ~1,,.  .• ,..
               ...._._~-         ...
               ~ _,....,...,.....,.,,__ _~          ..
                                                 -...---....-
                                                         ~--




             Table 1. Usual intake (kilocalories/capita/day and grams/capita/day) of beverages among adult residents of Berkeley, California, pre- and post-




hltp://joumals.plos.org/plosrncdicine/articlc?id= I0.1371 /journal .pmcd. I002283                                                                                                                                    13/24
1/22/2018                       Changes in prices, sales, consumer &pcmding. and beverage consumption one: year afier a tax on sugar-swcelencd beverages in Berkeley, California. US; A before-and-after study




            tax.
            https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pmed.1002283.t001



        Discussion
        A year following SSS tax implementation in Berkeley, California, there was heterogeneous pass-through of Berkeley's SSS excise
        tax across store and beverage types. SSB sales in Berkeley fell significantly in two chains of large supermarkets, while sales of
        untaxed beverages, especially water, and of all beverages increased. From the available data, there was no evidence of higher
        consumer sp~nding, nor was there a greater reduction in store revenue per transaction in relation to comparison sites. Changes in
        self-reported SSB intake were not statistically significant

        For taxes to directly affect consumption, beverage distributors (upon whom the tax is levied) have to pass the tax on to retailers,
        and retailers likewise need to pass the tax on to consumers. Tax pass-through in the store price survey was predominant in larger
        and chain stores but varied in degree and implementation speed by store type, possibly reflecting delayed implementation for "self-
        distributing" stores. Focusing on large supermarkets, scanner data from two chains showed that the tax was partially passed
        through for SSBs and that pass-through varied across SSB types, being highest for carbonated beverages. This may have been
        due to confusion on what products were taxed , and how distributors and retailers responded to the tax based on market shares of
        their beverages. These findings resemble findings in Mexico [1 O] and France [25], where pass-through was complete on
        carbonated SSBs and lower on noncarbonated products. Falbe et al. [26) examined pass-through in Berkeley and comparison
        cities in the first 3 months post-tax, with similar findings. Cawley and Frisvold [27] examined pass-though also after only 3 months
        of the tax-9 months prior to full implementation of the tax in small retailers-and for a smaller panel of products (five products in
        several sizes each), and found lower pass-through then Falbe et al.; however, they did not have an adequate sample size of small
        non-chain stores [27]. The present study examined a larger group of beverage products over a full year, including the second stage
        of tax implementation in the third store price survey. Pass-through may still evolve, as some price changes emerged later in the
        year. Consumers also saw greater price differentials between taxed and untaxed beverages across all store types. Jurisdictions
        may wish to include recommendations to retailers in future policies to pass through the tax to SSBs. Cook County, Illinois, included
        a requirement to do so in their measure [28].

        Despite incomplete pass-through of the SSB tax in the two chains of large supermarkets, the volume of SSBs sold fell by 9.6% in
        Berkeley stores. The volume of beverages sold per transaction as a whole rose in Berkeley, and shopping location did not change.
        This study was also unique in permitting examination of overall consumer spending at the stores studied, which did not increase, a
        concern widely cited by opponents of SSB taxes [29]. This study found that consumer spending, measured as store revenue per
        transaction , declined slightly, falling less in Berkeley stores than in comparison stores, despite increasing overall beverage sales in
        Berkeley. This appears to belie, at least in the chains studied, beverage industry arguments that such policies will raise grocery bills
        in general or that they will hurt local business. The volume of SSBs bought in stores nearest to Berkeley rose, consistent with either
        potential shifts to buying SSBs outside Berkeley (not reported in the telephone survey) or increasing consumption by residents of
        the non-Berkeley cities, as found by Falbe et al. [30]. When taxes are implemented in very small geographical areas such as
        Berkeley, shifts in shopping location may be a greater risk. Recent approval of similar policies in three neighboring cities may
        reduce or displace any shifting. Since Berkeley has on average higher education and median income and lower baseline SSB


http://joumals.plos.org/plosmedicine/article?id= I0.1371/joumal .pmed. I002283                                                                                                                                   14124
1122/2018                         Changes in prices, sales, consumer spending, and bevcrag.e consumption one YC31 after a tax on sugar-sweetened beverages in Berkeley, California. US: A before-and-after study




        consumption compared to the US in general, it was unclear whether the tax would be high enough to change demand. In Berkeley,
        the post-tax sales of SSBs declined to a greater degree than in Mexico, where the decline was 6% over the first year, and this
        decline is consistent with earlier estimates that a 10% increase in soft drink prices would reduce consumption by 8%-12% [31 ,32).
        The decline may be due to concomitant high rates of residents in poverty.

        Using a 3- to 10-min street intercept survey of low-income residents in Berkeley and control cities, Falbe et al. found a significant
        21 % decline in the frequency of SSB intake in Berkeley [30). Our telephone study used calories and grams of reported intake rather
        than frequency; our finding on change in mean daily SSB intake across the general population lacked statistical significance,
        although it was of similar magnitude to that found by Falbe et al., with a 19.8% reduction in grams. Falbe et al. examined only water
        consumption for untaxed beverages [30], while the present study asked about most untaxed beverages. The higher calories from
        untaxed beverages in our self-reported post-tax survey came predominantly from two sources: milks and "other" untaxed
        beverages, which included higher-fat beverages such as yogurt smoothies, milkshakes, atole, horchata, and eggnog. These
        findings contrast with the substitution pattern seen in our Berkeley point-of-sale data, which showed an increase in water sales and
        smaller but still significant increases in sales of plain milk and untaxed fruit, vegetable, and tea drinks, as well as a significant
        decline in untaxed diet drinks. Prior evidence suggests that when individuals substitute beverages in the wake of increased SSB
        prices, they are likely to choose water or diet soft drinks or fruit drinks [33], of which only fruit drinks would add calories. Our point-
        of-sale data are consistent with regard to increases in sales of water, and possibly fruit drinks, but not diet drinks. Since the point-
        of-sale data do not show that sales of these ~other" untaxed beverages rose meaningfully, perhaps there was an increase in the
        intake of these beverages at home (prepared from fruit and plain yogurts or milks) or at food-service locations. It is unclear whether
        consumption changes can be attributed to the tax, and we do not want to speculate since the self-reported beverage intake
        component of our study did not sample non-Berkeley residents, so we are unable to tell if the increase in the self-reported intake of
        "other" untaxed beverages was a secular trend or specific to Berkeley. Nonetheless, our results are consistent with Falbe et al. 's
        findings of small increases for frequency of SSB intake in control communities, no change in location of SSB shopping, and an
        increase in frequency of water intake in Berkeley {30].

        In this comparatively low-SSS-consuming city, the city's tax revenue over the first year of the SSS tax was $1,416,973
        (approximately $ 12 per capita) [34] , roughly four times the 2015 per capita amount in the federal Prevention and Public Health
        Fund. Proceeds are being used for child nutrition and community health programs [35}. This suggests that SSB taxes can provide
        significant revenue for prevention or other societal goals.

         Limitations

        This observational study cannot establish causal links between the SSB tax implementation and changes in measured outcomes,
        nor did it assess health outcomes. It cannot distinguish the longer-term effects of education and intensive media debate on SSBs in
        the communities surrounding the San Francisco Bay as a result of tax and other preexisting campaigns in both Berkeley and San
        Francisco in 2014, although, in contrast to Falbe et al.'s work, baseline store price survey and consumption data were collected
        after those campaigns but before tax implementation, mitigating this issue somewhat. Our selection of comparison sites used cities
        that had been exposed to similar educational campaigns and to the Bay Area tax media campaigns (both for and against}, so that
        the difference.-in-difference analysis more purely reflects the effects of the tax itself. The alternative of a more distant control would
        have better captured the combined effects of the campaigns and the tax itself.



hllp://joumals.plos.org/plosmedici ne/article?id= I0 .137 I /journal .pmcd. I002283                                                                                                                                15/24
1/22/2018                         Changes in prices. sales. consumerspending. and beverage consumption one year afcer a taX on s ugar-sweetened beverages in Berkeley. California. US: A before-and-after study




        This study also cannot clarify whether distributors, retailers, and/or consumers altered their behaviors in anticipation of the SSB tax
        or to what degree changes in these various parties' behaviors were associated with changes in prices and sales. The 26-store
        survey sample was fess representative of small and independent stores than of larger groceries. Analysis of consumption was
        limited by the small effect size in relation to high standard error and Berkeley's low baseline consumption , leading to an
        underpowered sample, and by the absence of a comparison community, suggesting the need for a larger, controlled sample,
        optimally with higher SSB consumption, more reflective of national consumption patterns. Obtaining such a sample in Berkeley
        proved unfeasible using the random digit dialing approach and available resources in the time-sensitive 6-wk window between
        passage of the tax and the original implementation date of 1 January 2015, when baseline survey data were collected.

        Despite the large number of transactions. while many grocers were invited, scanner data were limited to two chains of large
        supermarkets and are not generalizable to all stores or store types. Independently owned small corner stores, in particular, are very
        different, did not exhibit price changes in our data, and may not have reliable records on their sales. Consequently, Berkeley
        consumers may have shifted their SSB purchases to independent stores, but our data are unable to determine this. The differential
        pass-through also warrants further investigation. However, in separate descriptive analyses of food purchases for the Bay Area
        from the 2014 Nielsen Homescan data [36,37], about 50% of the volume of beverages purchased is from chain groceries (with ~10
        locations nationwide). and only about 2% from independent stores (<10 locations nationally) (per our own calculations) [36). For this
        reason, chain groceries likely constitute the most significant consumer SSB purchasing setting.

        Strengths of this study include an intimate understanding of the local implementation process, the ability to sample large and small
        stores and chains, and the large volume of transactions studied. These strengths allow us to begin learning where and to what
        degree the tax was implemented as well as to observe changes in prices, volume sold, and store revenue.

        Conclusions

        These findings suggest that implementing a SSB excise tax was feasible and SSB sales fell concomitantly, while the tax captured
        revenue for obesity prevention and other societal goals. Whether observed changes in sales were related to enactment of the tax or
        other local activities cannot be definitively determined due to the observational design. However, the observation of price increases
        for SSBs in two distinct data sources, the timing of those increases, and the patterns of change in taxed and untaxed beverage
        sales suggest that the observed changes may be attributable to the tax. Assessment of newly approved SSB taxes in a number of
        other citiesfcounties in the US at 1-2¢/oz will be important, and associations of taxation with substitutions in beverage sales and
        intake should be further assessed in settings with more typical consumption and using larger samples.


        Supporting information

        S1 Fig. Point-of-sale mean monthly unadjusted sales (ounces/transaction) of beverages in Berkeley·versus non-Berkeley stores.

        https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pmed.1002283.s001
        (DOCX)




http://joumals.plos.org/plosmcdicine/articlc?id= 10 .137 I /journal .pmed. 1002283                                                                                                                                16/24
112212018                        Changes lo prices, sales, consumer spending, and beverage consumption ooc year after a tax on sugar-swcct.cncd beverages in Berkeley, California, US: A before-ancl-after study




        51 STROBE. STROBE checklist for observational studies.

        https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pmed.1002283.s002
        (DOCX)

        51 Table. Panel of 70 beverage items by beverage and taxation categories collected in the store price surveys conducted in December 2014, June
        2015, and March 2016.

        https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pmed.1002283.s003
        (DOCX)

        S2 Table. Number of prices collected across all stores for the standard panel of 70 beverages in the store price surveys, by store and beverage type.

        https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pmed.1002283.s004
        (DOCX)

        SJ Table. Mean (95% Cl) store price survey change in beverage prices (cents/ounce) by store type in Berkeley that were collected in all three rounds.

        https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pmed.1002283.sOOS
        (DOCX)

        S4 Table. Mean (standard error) store price survey change In bevera.g e prices (cents/ounce) by store type in Berkeley based on paired comparisons.

        https ://doi. org/10 .1371 /journal. pmed. 1002283.s006
        (DOCX)

        SS Table. Neighborhood characteristics of Berkeley and non-Berkeley grocery stores providing scanner data.

        American Community Survey 5-y estimates (2009-2013).
        https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pmed.1002283.s007
        (DOCX)

        56 Table. Number of barcode scans, unique barcodes, and transactions included in the point-of-sale study.

        https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pmed.1002283.s008
        (DOCX)

        S7 Table. Beverages included and excluded from point-of-sale study.

        https:f/doi.org/10.1371/journal.pmed.1002283.s009


httpi//joumals.plos.orglplosmcdicinelarticle7ld= I0 .137 I/journal .pmcd. I002283                                                                                                                                  17/24
112212018                        Changes in prices, sales. consumer spcnding. aod beverage consumption one ycaT afLcr a tax on sugar-sweetened beverages in Berkeley. California, US. A bcfore-and"ufter study




        (DOCX)

        SS Table. Point-of-sale mean {95% Cl) sales-unweighted differences in beverage prices (cents/ounce) in Beriteley versus non-Beriteley stores by
        beverage group from fixed effects models.

        https://doi.org/10.1371fjournal.pmed.1002283.s010
        (DOCX)

        59 Table. Point-of-sale mean (95% Cl) sales-weighted differences in beverage prices (cents/ounce) in Berkeley versus non-Berkeley stores by
        beverage group from fixed effects models.

        https://doi.org/10.1371fjournal.pmed.1002283.s011
        (DOCX)

        510 Table. Point-of-sale model adjusted monthly counterfactuals and observed sales of beverages in Berkeley versus non-Berkeley stores, and mean
        absolute (ounces/transaction) and relative (percent of counterfactual) differences.

        CF, counterfactual; NB, non-Berkeley.
        https ://doi. org/1 0.1371 /journal. pmed. 1002283.so12
        (DOCX)

        511 Table. Point-of-sale model adjusted counterfactuals and observed sales of untaxed beverage categories in Berkeley versus non-Be.rkeley stores,
        and mean absolute (ounces/transaction) and relative (percent of counterfactual) differences.

        CF, counterfactual; NB, non-Berkeley.
        https://doi.org/'10.1371/journal.pmed.1002283.s013
        (DOCX)

        S12 Table. Weighted frequency of reported consumption rates of taxed and untaxed beverages by subcategory pre- and post-tax, Berkeley, California,
        2014-2015.

        https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pmed.1002283.s014
        (DOCX)

        513 Table. Descriptive statistics of Berkeley sample in 2014 and 2015 compared to adult sample (age 18 y and older) in the National Health and
        Nutrition Examination Survey, 2011-2012.

        https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pmed.1002283.s015
        (DOCX)




h1tp:lljournals.plos.orglplosmcdicinel:ll1icle?id= I 0.137 1ljoumal.pmed.I002283                                                                                                                                 18124
1/2212018                          Changes in prices, sales, consumer spending, and beverage consumption one year after at.ax on sugar-swee1cned beverages in Beri.eley. California, US; A be.fore-and-after study



         51 Text Details on the store price survey sample design, data collection procedures, and price analysis.

         https://doi.org/10. 1371/journal.pmed.1002283.s016
         (DOCX)

         52 Text. Details on the point-of-sale data and price, volume sold, and store revenue analyses.

         https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pmed.1002283.s017
         (DOCX)

         53 Text Point-of-sale price fixed effects                  mo~els     and predictions.

         https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pmed.1002283.s018
         (DOCX)

         S4 Text Point-of-sale volume sold difference-in-difference models and predicted outcomes.

         https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pmed.1002283.s019
         (DOCX)

         SS Text Details on the dietary and shopping behavior survey.

         https://doi.org/10.1371/joumal.prned.1002283.s020
         (DOCX)

         56 Text Usual intake modeling approach.

         https://doi.org/10.1371 {journal. prned.1002283.s021
         (DOCX)

         57 Text References for supporting information.

         https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pmed.1002283.s022
         (DOCX)


         Acknowledgments




llttp:/ljoumnls .plos .org/plosmc:dicine/nrticle?id: l 0.137 l/journal .pmed. l 002283                                                                                                                               19/24
112212018                       Changes in prices, sales, consumer spending, and beverage consumption one year after a tax on sugar-sweetened beverages in Berkeley, California. US: A before.-and-after study




        We thank Cory Hamma (Microsoft Certified IT Professional) and Scott Riddle in helping secure and manage the retailer data; Julie
        Wandell and Emily Yoon, who were invaluable in helping with the beverage groupings and tax classification work; Frances Dancy
        for administrative and formatting help; Denise Ammons for graphics support; the team from the Survey Research Group at Public
        Health Institute for data collection and entry work; and the respondents and stores that generously participated, especially those
        that generously shared their data.


        Author Contributions
                Conceptualization: LOS SWN SRI Ml LST BMP.

                Data curation: LOS SRI Ml ORM JMP SRI,

                Formal analysis: SWN ORM LST SRI.

                Funding acquisition: BMP.

                Investigation: LOS SWN SRI Ml LST ORM JMP Ml BMP.

                Methodology: LOS SWN SRI Ml LST BMP ORM.

                Project administration: LOS BMP.

                Resources: LOS BMP.

                Software: SWN ORM JMP SRI LST

                Supervision: LOS BMP.

                 Validation: LOS SWN BMP.

                Visualization: LOS SWN SRI LST.

                Writing - original draft: SWN LOS SRI LST BMP.

                Writing - review & editing: LOS SWN SRI Ml LST ORM JMP Ml BMP.


        References
              1. Wortd Health Organization. Guideline: sugars intake for adults and children. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2015.

              2. Malik VS, Popkin BM , Bray GA. Despres JP, Willett WC, Hu FB. Sugar-sweetened beverages and risk of metabolic syndrome and type 2 diabetes: a
                 meta-analysis. Diabetes Care. 2010;33(11):2477-83. pmid:20693348
                 View Article • PubMed/NCBI • Google Scholar




http://joumals.plos.orgtplosmedicinc/articlc?id=I 0.137 1/joumru .pmod.1002283                                                                                                                                   20/2.4
1122/2018                       Changes in prices. sales. consumer spending. and beverage consumption one year after a tax on sugar-sweetened beverages in Berkeley, California, US: A before-and-after study




                    Brownell KO, Farley T, Willett WC, Popkin BM, Chaloupka FJ, Thompson JW. et al. The public health and economic benefits of taxing sugar..sweetened
              3
                  · beverages. N Engl J Med. 2009;361(16):1599-605. pmid:197593n
                    View Article • PubMed/NCBI • Google Scholar


              4. Andreyeva T, Chaloupka FJ, Brownell KO. Estimating the potential of taxes on sugar-sweetened beverages to reduce consumption and generate revenue.
                 Prev Med. 2011;52(6):41~. pmid:21443899
                 View Article • PubMed/NCBI • Google Scholar


              5. Wang YC, Coxson P, Shen Y, Goldman l, Bibbins-Domingo K. A penny-per-ounce tax on su_g ar-sweetened beverages would cut health and cost burdens
                 of diabetes. Health Aff (Millwood). 2012;31 (1 ):199-207.
                 View Article • PubMed/NCBI • Google Scholar


              6. Popkin BM, Hawkes C. Sweetening of the global diet, particularly beverages: patterns, trends, and policy responses. lancet Diabetes Endocrine!.
                 2016;4(2):174-86. pmid:26654575
                 View Article • PubMed/NCBI • Google Scholar


              7. long MW, Gortmaker SL, Ward ZJ, Resch SC, Moodie ML. Sacks G, et al. Cost effectiveness of a sugar-sweetened beverage excise tax in the U.S, Am J
                 Prev Med. 2015;49(1):112-23. pmid:26094232
                 View Article • PubMed/NCBI • Google Scholar


              8. Chriqui JF, Chaloupka FJ, Powell lM, Eidson SS. A typology of beverage taxation: multiple approaches for obesity prevention and obesity prevention-
                 related revenue generation. J Public Health Policy. 2013;34(3):403-23. pmid:23698157
                 View Article • PubMed/NCBI • Google Scholar


              9. Colchero MA. Popkin BM, Rivera JA, Ng SW. Beverage purchases from stores In Mexico under the excise tax on sugar sweetened beverages:
                 observational study. BMJ. 2016;352:h6704. pmid:26738745
                 View Article • PubMed/NCBI • Google Scholar


            10. Colchero MA, Salgado JC, Unar-Munguia M, Molina M, Ng S, Rivera-Dommarco JA. Changes in prices after an excise tax to sweetened sugar beverages
                was implemented in Mexico: evidence from urban areas. PloS ONE. 2015;10(12):e0144408. pmid:26675166
                View Article • PubMed/NCBI • Google Scholar


             11. City of Berkeley. Frequently asked questions (FAQ) for the sweetened beverage tax of Berkeley, CA. Berkeley (California): City of Berkeley~ 2016 Jan 4
                 [cited 2017Mar14]. Available from: http://www.ci.berkeley.ea.us/uploadedFiles/Finance/Level_3_-
                 - Gerieral/Frequently%20Asked%20Questions%20Edited%20Version%20111015.2.pdf.




hup://joumals.plos.org/plosmedicinc/article?id= JO.137 f/journal.pmcd. I002283                                                                                                                                  21/24
1122/2018                        Changes In prices, sales, consumer spending, and beverage consumption one year after a taX on sugar-sweetened beverages io Berkeley. California, US: A before-and-after study




             12. United States Census Bureau. QuickFacts: United States. Washington (District of Columbia) ; United States Census Bureau; 2017 [cited 2017 Jan 15).
                  Available from: http://www.census.gov/quickfacts.

             13. City of Berkeley. Imposing a general tax on the distribution of sugar-sweetened beverage products. Berkeley (California): City of Berkeley; 2014 [cited
                  2017 Jan 15]. Available from: http://www.cityofberkeley.info/uploadedFiles/Clerk/Elections/Sugar%20Sweeetened%20Beverage%20Tax%20%20-
                  %20Full%20Text.pdf.

             14. Mintel. GNPD-Global New Product Database. London: Mintel; 2017 [cited 2017 Jan 15]. Available from: http://www.mintel.com/gnpd.

             15. California Department of Public Health. Background on COPS. Sacramento: California Department of Public Health; 2013 [cited 2017 Jan 15]. Available
                  from: https://www.cdph.ca.9ov/programs/cpns/Documents/CDPSBackground2013.pdf.



             16. lzrael D, Hoaglin D, Battaglia M. A SAS macro for balancing a weighted sample. In: Proceedings of the Twenty-Fifth Annual SAS Users Group
                 International Conference. Cary (North Carolina): SAS Institute; 2000 [cited 2017 Mar 23]. Available from:
                 http://www2.sas.com/proceedings/sugi25/25/sV25p258.pdf.

             17. Agricultural Research Service. Welcome to the USDA Food Composition Databases: National Nutrient Database for Standard Reference. Washington
                  (District of Columbia): United States Department of Agriculture; 2014 [cited 2017 Jan 5] . Available fro(TI: https://ndb.nal.usda.gov/ndb/.

             18. Agricultural Research Service. Food and Nutrient Database for Dietary Studies. Version 4.1. Washington (District of Columbia): United States Department
                 of Agriculture; 2010.

             19. Bureau of labor Statistics. CPI databases. Washington (District of Columbia): Bureau of Labor Statistics; 2017 [cited 2017 Jan 15]. Available from:
                  http://www.bls.gov/cpi/#data.

             20. StataCorp. Stata. Release 13. College Station (Texas): StataCorp; 2014.

             21. Tooze JA, Midthune D, Dodd KW. Freedman LS, Krebs-Smith SM, Subar AF, el al. A new statistical method for estimating the usual intake of episodically
                  consumed foods with application to their distribution. J Am Diet Assoc. 2006;106(10):1575-87. pmid:1 7000190
                  Vlew Article • PubMed/NCBI • Google Scholar


             22. Tooze JA. Kipnis V, Buckman OW, Carroll RJ. Freedman LS. Guenther PM, et al. A mixed-effects model approach for estimating the distribution of usual
                  intake of nutrients: the NCI method. Stat Med. 2010;29(27):2857-68. pmid:20862656
                  View Article • PubMed/NCBI • Google Scholar


             23. Haines PS, Popkfn BM, Guilkey DK. Modeling food consumption decisions as a two-step process. Am J Agr Econ. 1988;70(3):543-52.
                  View Article • PubMed/NCBI • Google Scholar




http://joumals.plos J>rg/plosmedicinelarticle?ld= I0.1371 /journal .pmcd. I002283                                                                                                                                22/24
112212018                        Chang~ in    prices, sales, consumer spending. and beverage consumption one year after a tax on sugar-sweetened beverogc:s in Berkeley, California, US: /\ bcforc•and-llflcr study




             24. Belotti F, Deb P, Manning WG, Norton EC. twopm: two-part models. Stata J. 2015;15(1):3-20.
                 View Article • PubMed/NCBI • Google Scholar


             25. Berardi N, Sevestre P, Tepaut M, Vigneron A. The impact of a 'soda tax' on prices: evidence from French micro data. Banque de France Working Paper
                 No. 415. Rochester (New York): SSRN: 2012 [cited 2017 Jan 15). Avail.able from: http:f/ssm.com/abslfact=2192470.


             26. Falbe J, Rojas N, Grummon AH , Madsen KA. Higher retail prices of sugar-sweetened beverages 3 months after implementation of an excise tax in
                 Berkeley, CalifOmia, Am J Public Health. 2015;105(11):2194-201 . pmid:26444622
                 View Article • PubMed/NCBI • Google Scholar


             27. Cawley J, Frisvold DE. The pass-through of taxes on sugar-sweetened beverages to retail prices: the case of Berkeley, California. J Policy Anal Manag.
                 2017; 36(2):303-26
                 View Article • PubMed/NCBI • Google Scholar


             28. Board of Commissioners of Cook County Illinois. Legislation details (with text): sweetened beverage tax. Chicago: Board of Commissioners of Cook
                 County; 2016 [cited 2017 Jan 1S]. Available from: https://cook-county.legistar.comNiewReport.ashx?
                 M=R&N=Master&GI 0=301 &10=2864031&GUID=8DDEE6A8-9125-4556-B93E-900069774C08&Extra=WrthText&Title=Legislation+Details+(With+Text).

             29. No on HH: No Oakland Grocery Tax. Say "no~ to an unfair grocery tax In Oakland. Oakland (California): No on HH: No Oakland Grocery Tax; 2016 [cited
                 2016 Nov 12}. Available from: http://nooaklandgrocerytax.com/.

             30. Falbe J, Thompson HR, Becker CM, Rojas N, McCulloch CE, Madsen KA Impact of the Berkeley excise tax on sugar-sweetened beverage consumption.
                 Am J Public Health. 2016;106(10):1865-71. pmid27552267
                 View Article • PubMed/NCBI • Google Scholar


             31 . Andreyeva T, Long MW, Brownell KO. The impact of food prices on consumption: a systematic review of research on the price elasticity of demand for
                  food. Am J Public Health. 2010;100(2):216-22. pmid:20019319
                  View Article • PubMed/NCBI • Google Scholar


             32. Colchero MA, Salgado JC , Uhar-Munguia M, Hernandez-Avila M, Rlvera-Dommarco JA. Price elasticity of the demand for sugar sweetened beverages
                 and soft drinks in Mexico. Econ Hum Biol. 2015;19:129-37. pmid:26386463
                 View Article • PubMed/NCBI • Google Scholar


             33. Escobar MAC, Veerman JL, Tollman SM, Bertram MY, Hofman KJ. Evidence that a tax on sugar sweetened beverages reduces the obesity rate: a meta-
                 analysis. BMC Public Health. 2013;13:1072. pmid:24225016
                 View Article • PubMed/NCBI • Google Scholar



http:l/joumals.plos .org/plosmcdlcine/article?id= 10. I371/journal .pmed. I002 283                                                                                                                                    23/24
l/2212018                        Changes in prices, sales, consumer spending. and beverage consumption one year after a taX on sugar-sweetened beverages in Betkcley, California, US: A before-and-after study




             34. Williams-Ridley 0. Sugar sweetened beverage tax revenues. Berkeley (California): City of Berkeley: 2016 May 2 (cited 2017 Mar 21]. Available from;
                  http://www.cityotberkeley.info/uploadedFiles/C lerk/Level_3_._ General/SSB%20Revenues%20050216 .pdf.

             35. Raguso E. Council approves $1.5M to fight soda consumption. Berkeley (California}: Berkeleyside NOSH; 2016 Jan 20 [cited 2017 Jan 15]. Available
                 from: http://www.berkeleyslde.com/2016/01/20/berkeley-council-approves-1-5m-to-fight-soda-consumption/.

             36. Stern D, Poti JM , Ng SW, Robinson WR, Gordon-Larsen P, Popkin BM. Where people shop is not associated with the nutrient quality of packaged foods
                  for any racial-ethnic group rn the United States. Am             J Clin Nutr. 2016;103(4):1125-34. pmid:26912495
                  View Article • PubMed/NCBI • Google Scholar


             37. Stem D, Robinson WR, Ng SW, Gordon-Larsen P, Popkin BM. US household food shopping patterns: dynamic shifts since 2000 and socioeconomic
                 predictors. Health Aff (Millwood). 2015;34(11):1840-8.
                 View Article • PubMed/NCBI • Google Scholar




hltp://j oumals.plos.org/plosmcdicine/article?id= I0.1371/journaJ .pmed. I002283                                                                                                                                 24124
1122/2018
                                                                                                      -
    A sugary drink tax or soda tax is a tax or surcharge designed to red c consumption of drinks with added sugar. Drinks
    covered under a soda tax often include carbonated soft drinks, sports drinks and energy drinks.l1l

    The tax is a matter of public debate in many countries and beverage producers like Coca-Cola often oppose it. Advocates
    such as national medical associations and the World Health Organization (WHO) promote the tax as an example of Pigovian
    taxation, aimed to discourage unhealthy diets and offset the growing economic costs of obesity.f2l

                                                                                                           COUNCIL MEETING
                                                                                                              /-~-IV:;'
    Backgrouna                                                                                             [ ] Plac~d Before Meeting
                                                                                                           [ ] Received at Meeting

    Type II Diabetes is a growing health concern in many developed and developing countries around 'the world, with 1 .6 million
    deaths directly due to type II diabetes in 2015 alone.l31Unlike sugar from food, the sugar from drinks enters the body
    quickly, which can overload the pancreas and the liver, leading to diabetes and heart disease over time.f4l A 2010 study said
    that consuming one to two sugary drinks a day increases your risk of developing diabetes by 26%.151

    Heart disease is responsible for 31 % of all global deathsf6l and although one sugary drink has minimal effects on the heart,
    consuming sugary drinks daily are associated with long term consequences. A study found that men, for every added
    serving per day of sugar-sweetened beverages, each serving was associated with a 19% increased risk of developing heart
    disease)?J Another study also found increased risks for heart disease in women who drank sugary drinks daily)8l

    Obesity is also a global public and health policy concern, with the percentage of overweight and obese people in many
    developed and middle income countries rising rapidly.l91Consumption of added sugar in sugar-sweetened beverages has
    been positively correlated with high calorie intake, and through it, with excess weight and obesity.f10J The addition of one
    sugar-sweetened beverage per day to the normal US diet can amount to 15 pounds of weight gain over the course of 1
    year.11 11Added sugar is a common feature of many processed and convenience foods such as breakfast cereals,l12l
    chocolate, ice cream, cookies, yogurts and drinks produced by retailers.1131The ubiquity of sugar-sweetened beverages and
    their appeal to younger consumers has made their consumption a subject of particular concern by public health
    professionals. In both the United States and the United Kingdom, sugar sweetened drinks are the top calorie source in
hllps://cn.m.wik1pedia.org/wil:i/S ugary _drink,_taxHAlbany,__Cnlifornia                                                               1133
1122/201 8                                                            Sugary drink tax - Wikipcdia

    teenager's diets.l14ll15J

    Trends indicate that traditional soda consumption is declining in many developed economies, but growing rapidly in middle
    income economies such as Vietnam and India. In the United States, the single biggest market for carbonated soft drinks,
    consumers annual average per capita purchase of soda was 154 liters.l1 6l

    Denmark began taxing soft drinks and juices in the 1930s. More recently, Finland reintroduced an earlier soft drink tax in
    2011, while Hungary taxes sugary drinks as part of its 2011 public health product tax, which covers all food products with
    unhealthy levels of sugar. France introduced a targeted sugar tax on soft drinks in 2012.l171At a national level similar
    measures have also been announced in Mexico in 2013 and in the United Kingdom in 2016. In November 2014, Berkeley,
    California was the first city in the U.S. to pass a targeted tax on surgary drinks.


    Tobacco taxes

    Proponents of soda taxes cite the success of tobacco taxes worldwide when explaining why they think a soda tax will work
    to lower soda consumption.r18l Where the main concern with tobacco is cancer, the main concerns with soda are diabetes
    and obesity. The tactics used to oppose soda taxes by soda companies mimic those of tobacco companies, including
    funding research that downplays the health risks of its products.1191


    Economics and Economic Theory of the tax

    The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services reports that a targeted tax on sugar in soda could generate $14.9 billion
    in the first year alone. The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates that three-cent-per-ounce tax would generate over
    $24 billion over four years.l20l Some tax measures call for using the revenue collected to pay for relevant health needs:
    improving diet, increasing physical activity, obesity prevention, nutrition education, advancing healthcare reform, etc.l21 1
    Another area to which the revenue raised by a soda tax might go, as suggested by Mike Rayner of the United Kingdom, is to
    subsidize healthier foods like fruits and vegetables.l221

htlps://en.m.wikipcdia .org/wiki/Sugary_drink_.taX#Albany~Califomia                                                                 V33
J/2212018                                                             Sugary drink tax - Wikipedia

    The imposition of a sugar tax means that sellers of sugary drinks would have to increase t he price of their goods by an
    amount P2 from the original price X, and then take on the rest of the tax themselves (P1) in the form of lower profit per unit
    sold. The tax burden on consumers (P2) makes it more expensive for consumers to buy sugary drinks and hence a higher
    proportion of their incomes would have to be spent to buy the same amount of sugary drinks. This decreases the
    equilibrium quantity of sugary drinks that will be sold. Whether the sugary drinks tax is imposed on the seller or consumer, in
    both cases t he tax burden is shared between both. l231

    The way that the tax burden is divided upon the consumer and seller depends on the price elasticity for sugary drinks. The
    tax burden will fall more on sellers when the price elasticity of demand is greater than the price elasticity of supply while on
    buyers when the price elasticity of supply is greater than the price elasticity of demand. The price elasticity for sugary drinks
    is different from country to country. For instance, the price elasticity of demand for sugary drinks was found to be -1.37 in
    Chile while -1.16 in Mexico.l24U251Hence if both of those results were realistic and the price elasticity of supply would be the
    same for both, the tax burden on consumers would be higher in Mexico than in Chile.l23J


    The reason for implementing a sugar tax in microeconomic terms

    The reasons for a sugar tax are the negative externalities of consuming sugar. As the consumption of sugar causes health
    problems (external costs) such as obesity, type 2 diabetes and other diseases, the third party impacted by this is the 'public
    health system' t hat will need to deal with those issues. More demand for health services leads to higher costs for health care
    and hence this increased stress on the public health system is a negative consumption externality of sugar
    consumption.l26H2 7J

    In economics terms, the marginal social benefit (MSB) of sugar consumption is less than the marginal private benefit (MB).
    This can also be illustrated in the following equation. MSB = MB - Marginal External Cost (MXC). This is the case due to the
    fact that consumers think only of the benefit of sugar consumption to them (MB) and not the negative externalities to third
    parties (MXC) and so want to consume at the unregulated market equilibrium to maximize their utility. This means that there
    is overconsumption of sugar and a welfare loss is created.l281

hllps://en.m .wikipedia.org/wiki/Sugary_drink~tax#Albany~California                                                                     3133
1122/2018                                                              Sugary drink tax - Wikipedia

    The sugary drinks tax is a way to correct the negative externality by regulating the consumption of sugary drinks.l241Without
    a sugary drink tax, taxpayer money is used to pay for higher health care costs incurred from high consumption of sugar.
    Although this solution corrects the negative consumption externality, taxpayers that consume sugary drinks moderately and
    hence do not contribute to higher health care costs, still need to pay for this negative externality. Hence a sugary drinks tax
    may be a more appropriate solution as tax revenue that is collected from the sugar tax can be used to create childhood
    nutrition programs or obesity-prevention programs.l2 7J This is a solution that could also correct the negative externality of
    sugar consumption as well as is a way to make the parties that cause the negative externality pay their fair share.l281


    Countries

    Colombia

    A 2016 proposal for a 20% sugary drink tax, campaigned by Educar Consumidores, was turned down by the Colombian
    legislature despite popular support for it.l291Soda is often less expensive than bottled water in Colombia.


    Denmark

    Denmark instituted a soft drink tax in the 1930s (it amounted to 1.64 Danish krone per liter), but announced in 2013 that they
    were going to abolish it along with an equally unpopular fat tax, with the goal of creating jobs and helping the local
    economy. !301Critics claimed that the taxes were notably ineffective; to avoid the fat and sugar taxes, local retailers had
    complained that Danes simply went to Sweden and Germany, where prices were lower to buy butter, ice cream and soda.!3 11
    Denmark repealed the fat tax in January 2013 and repealed the tax on soft drinks in 2014.


    France

    France first introduced a targeted tax on sugary drinks at a national level in 2012;!17J following introduction, soft drinks are

https://cn.m.wiki pedia.org/wiki/Sugary_drink_talt#Albany~California                                                                   4133
112212018                                                            Sugary drink tax· W1kipedia

    estimated to be up to 3.5% more expensive.l32Jf33J Analysis by the market research firm Canadean found that sales of soft
    drinks declined in the year following the introduction of the tax, following several years of annual growthJ34J However, the tax
    applies to both drinks with added sugars and drinks with artificial sweeteners,!34U3 5J possibly limiting its effects on the
    healthfulness of soda products.l35l

    A 2016 study by Mazzochi has shown that t he sugary drinks tax saw a 19 euro-cent per liter increase in price of non-pure
    fruit juices, a 16 euro-cent per liter increase for diet sodas and little impact on regular soft drinks prices. The study also
    estimated that the quantity consumed of the taxed drinks has decreased by 9 centiliters per week per person after the tax
    has been implemented.l361


    Hungary

    Hungary's tax, which came into effect in September 2011, has seen 22% of people reduce energy drink consumption and
    19% of people reduce their intake of sugary-sweetened soft-drinks.l37J


    Ireland

    In 2016, Ireland approved a soda tax set to start in April 2018, which is around the same time a similar soda tax takes effect
    in the United Kingdom.f38J


    Mexico

    In September 2013, Mexico's president Enrique Pena Nieto, on his fiscal bill package, proposed a 10% tax on all soft drinks,
    especially carbonated drinks.[39H401with the intention of reducing the number of patients with diabetes and other
    cardiovascular diseases in Mexico, which has one of the world's highest rates of obesity.l41J According to Mexican
    government data, in 2011, the treatment for each patient with diabetes cost the Mexican public health care system (the
    largest of Latin America) around 708 USO per year, with a total cost of 778,427,475 USO in 2010, and with each patient

hltps:/lcn.m .wikipedia.org/wiki/Sugary_drink_taxHAlbany~Catifomia                                                                   5/33
112212018                                                                    Sugary drink tax - Wikipcdia

    paying only 30 MXN (around 2.31 USD).l421

    In September 2013, soda companies launched a media campaign to discourage the Mexican Chamber of Deputies and
    Senate from approving the 10% soda tax. They argued that such measure would not help reduce the obesity in Mexico and
    would leave hundreds of Mexicans working in the sugar cane industry jobless.l43l They also publicly accused New York City
    Mayor Michael Bloomberg[44J of orchestrating the controversial bill from overseas. In late October 2013, the Mexican Senate
    approved a 1 MXN per litre tax (around 0.08 USO) on sodas, along with a 5% tax on junk food.l451

    Research has shown that Mexico's sugary drinks tax reduced soft drink consumption.[46n47J According to a 2016 study
    published in BMJ, annual sales of sodas in Mexico declined 6% in 2014 after the introduction of the soda taxJ461Monthly
    sales figures for December 2014 were down 12% on the previous two years.l461Households with the fewest resources had
    an average reduction in purchases of 9% in 2014, increasing to 17% by December.l461 Furthermore, purchases of water and
    non-taxed beverages increased by about 4% on average.l46l Whether the imposition of the tax and the resulting 6% decline
    in sales of soft drinks, will have any measurable impact on long-term obesity or diabetes trends in Mexico has yet to be
    determinedJ46l The authors of the study urged the Mexican authorities to double the tax to further reduce consumptionJ461

    A 2016 study published in PLoS Medicine suggested that a 10% excise tax on soda "could prevent 189,300 new cases of
    Type 2 diabetes, 20,400 strokes and heart attacks1 and 18,900 deaths among adults 35 to 94 years old " over a ten-year
    period.l471The study also included that 1'the reductions in diabetes alone could yield savings in projected healthcare costs of
    $983 million. "(4 71

    A 2017 study in the Journal of Nutrition found a 6.3% reduction in soft drink consumption, with the greatest reductions
     "among lower-income households, residents living in urban areas, and households with children. We also found a 16.2%
    increase in water purchases that was higher in low- and middle-income households, in urban areas, and among households
    with adults only. 11 l481


    Norway

hllps:/le.n,m.wikipcdia .org/wiki/Sugary _drink. Jax IfAlbany ._California                                                            6/33
l/2212018                                                                   Sugary drink taX - Wikipedia

    Norway has had a generalized sugar tax measure on refined sugar products since 1922, introduced to boost state income
    rather than reducing sugar consumption.l49l Non-alcoholic beverages have since been separated from the general tax, and
    in 2017, the tax for sugary drinks was set to 3.34 kroner per litre.l50l


    Philippines

     In the taxation reform law dubbed as the Tax Reform for Acceleration and Inclusion Law (TRAIN) signed by Philippine
    President Rodrigo Duterte in December 2017. It includes taxation on sugar-sweetened drinks which will be implemented the
    following year, as an effort to increase revenue and to fight obesity.[511 Drinks with caloric and non-caloric sweeteners will be
    taxed 1>6.00 per liter, while those using high-fructose corn syrup, a cheap sugar substitute, will be taxed at 'P'12 per liter.

    Exempted from the sugar tax are all kinds of milk, whether powdered or in liquid form, ground and 3-in-1 coffee packs, and
     100-percent natural fruit and vegetable juices, meal replacements and medically indicated drinks, as well as beverages
    sweetened with stevia or coco sugar. These drinks, especially 3-in-1 coffee drinks which are popular especially among
    lower-income families, are to be taxed as initially proposed by the House of Representatives version of the bill(52l, but were
    exempted in the Senate versionf53J.


    South Africa

    South Africa proposed a sugar-sweetened beverages tax in the 2016 South African national government budget.l541


    United Arab Emirates

    On October 2017, the United Arab Emirates introduced a 50% tax on soft drinks and a 100% tax on energy drinks, to curb
    unhealthy consumption of sugary drinks that can lead to diabetes; it also added a 100% tax on cigarettes.f5 5l


    United Kingdom

https://en m .wiki pedia.org/wiki/Sugary _drink_tax# Al bruiy _California                                                               7/33
1/22/2018                                                               Sugary drink tax - Wikipedia

    In the 2016 United Kingdom budget, the UK Government announced the introduction of a sugar tax, officially named the
    "Soft Drinks Industry Levy" . Planned to come into effect in 2018, beverage manufacturers will be taxed according to the
    volume of sugar"-sweetened beverages they produce or import. The tax will be imposed at the point of production or
    importation, in two bands. Drinks with total sugar content above 5g per 100 millilitres will be taxed at 18p per litre and drinks
    above 8g per 100 millilitres at 24p per litre. The measure is estimated to generate an additional £1 billion a year in tax
    revenue which will be spent on funding for sport in UK schools.l56ll571

    It is proposed that pure fruit juices, milk-based drinks and the smallest producers will not be taxed. It is expected that some
    manufacturers will reduce sugar content in order to avoid the taxationJ581

    Notable research on effect of excess sugar in modern diets in the United Kingdom includes the work of Professor John
    Yudkin with his book called, "Pure, White and Deadly: The Problem of Sugar" first published in 1972.!591With regard to a
    proposed tax on sugar-sweetened beverages, a study published in the British Medical Journal on 31 October 2013,
    postulated that a 20% tax on sugar-sweetened beverages would reduce obesity in the United Kingdom rates by about
    i .3%, and concluded that taxing sugar-sweetened beverages was "a promising population measure to target population
    obesity, particularly among younger adults. "l60l

    Campaigners want the sugar tax extended to include confectionary and sweets to help tackle childhood obesity.l611


    Criticism

    The decision to impose the tax has been criticised by UK-based drinks producers and was described by Member of
    Parliament Will Quince as, "patronising, regressive and the nanny state at it's worst. "l621

    Professor Robert Lustig of the University of California, San Francisco School of Medicine, stated that the UK tax measure
    may not go far enough and that, "juice should be taxed the same way as soda because from a metabolic standpoint juice is
    the same as soda. "(631The UK sugar tax proposal announced by the government in early-2016 is narrow in scope and does
    not target pure fruit juices and milk-based drinks.l64l

https;//cn .m .wikipedia.org/wiki/Sugary _dnnk_taxllAlbany~California                                                                 8133
1/2212018                                                                          Sugary drink tax - Wiki pedia

    A study by the University of Glasgow, which sampled 132,000 adults, found that focusing on sugar in isolation misleads
    consumers as reducing fat intake is also crucial to reducing obesity.f651


    United States

    The United States does not have a nationwide soda tax, but a few of its cities have passed their own tax and the U.S. has
    seen a growing debate around taxing soda in various cities, states and even in Congress in recent years.l661A few states
    impose excise taxes on bottled soft drinks or on wholesalers, manufacturers, or distributors of soft drinks.l671




                                                                       Supermarket chilled beverage
                                                                       selection

    Medical costs related to obesity in the United States alone were estimated to be $147 billion a year in 2009. In the same
    year, the American Heart Association reported that the soft drinks and sugar sweetened beverages are the largest
    contributors of added sugars in Americans' diets. Added sugars are sugars and syrups added to foods during processing or
    preparation and sugars and syrups added after preparation. Excessive intake of added sugars, as opposed to naturally
    occurring sugars, is implicated in the rise in obesity.l681


    American localities with a soda tax

    Philadelphia and Berkeley are the first two cities to pass a tax on sugary drinks in the U.S. Berkeley's tax of 1 cent/oz of
    sugary drink has seen a decline in soda consumption by more than 20 percent. Philadelphia's tax of 1.5 cents/oz took effect
hltps://cn .m.wikipedia .org/wiki/Sugary_drink _taxHAlbany~Califomia                                                               9133
112212018                                                               Sugary drink laX - Wikipcdia

    on January 1, 2017 ) 69J


    Berkeley, California

    The Measure D soda tax was approved by 76%l7°J of Berkeley voters on 4 November 2014, and took effect on 1 January
    2015 as the first such tax in the United States.l71l The measure imposes a tax of one cent per ounce on the distributors of
    specified sugar-sweetened beverages such as soda, sports drinks, energy drinks, and sweetened ice teas but excluding
    milk-based beverages, meal replacement drink, diet sodas, fruit juice, and alcohol. The revenue generated will enter the
    general fund of the City of BerkeleyP2l A similar measure in neighboring San Francisco received 54% of the vote, but fell
    short of the supermajority required to passP3l In August 2015, researchers found that average prices for beverages covered
    under the Jaw rose by less than half of the tax amount. For Coke and Pepsi, 22 percent of the tax was passed on to
    consumers, with the balance paid by vendors.l7 41 UC Berkeley researchers found a higher pass-through rate for the tax:
    47% of the tax was passed-through to higher prices of sugar-sweetened beverages overall with 69% being passed-through
    to higher soda prices.f7 5l tn August 2016, a UC Berkeley study showed a 21 % drop in the drinking of soda and sugary
    beverages in low-income neighborhoods in its city.f761

    A study from 2016 compared the changing intake of sugar sweetened beverages and water in Berkeley versus San
    Francisco and Oakland (which did not have a sugary drink tax passed) before and after Berkeley passed its sugary drink tax.
    This analysis showed a 26% decrease of soda consumption in Berkeley and 10% increase in San Francisco and Oakland
    while water intake increased by 63% in Berkeley and 19% in the two neighboring cities.l77l A 2017 before and after study
    has concluded that one year after the tax was introduced in Berkeley, sugary drink sales decreased by 9.6% when
    compared to a scenario where the tax was not in place.l781This same study was also able to show that overall consumer
    spending did not increase, contradicting the argument of opponents of the Sugary Drink Tax.f78l Another 2017 study results
    were that purchases of healthier drinks went gone up and sales of sugary drinks went down, without overall grocery bills
    increasing or the local food sector losing money.f791


    Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

hnps://cn .m.wikipcdia .org/wiki/Sugary_drink...taxllAlbany~Califomia                                                             10133
i/2212018                                                              Sugary drink ta~ · Wikipcdin

    Democratic Philadelphia mayor Jim Kenney proposed a citywide soda tax that would raise the price of soda at three cents
    per ounce. At the time, it was the biggest soda tax proposal in the United States. Kenney promoted using tax revenue to
    fund universal pre-K, jobs, and development projects, which he predicted would raise $400 million over five years, all the
    while reducing sugar intake by decreasing the demand for sugary beverages.l80l Kenney's soda tax proposal was brought to
    the national spotlight and divided key members of the Democratic Party. Presidential hopeful Bernie Sanders argued in an
    op-ed that the tax would hurt the poor.l81 l His opponent, Hillary Clinton, on the other hand, said that she was "very
    supportive" of the idea.l82l The American Beverage Association (ABA), funded by soda companies and distributors, ran local
    television, radio, and newspaper advertisements against the idea, claiming that the tax would disproportionately hurt the
    poor.l831The ABA spent $10.6 million in 2016 in its effort against the tax.l841The American Medical Association, American
    Heart Association, and other medical and public health groups support the tax.f85J

    The Philadelphia City Council approved a 1.5-cents-per-ounce tax on 16 June 2016. As part of the compromise legislation
    that passed, the tax is also imposed on artificially sweetened beverages, such as diet soda. The law became effective on 1
    January 2017.f861It was reported after two months of the tax that Philadelphia supermarkets and beverage distributors are
    planning layoffs because sugary beverage sales are down between 30 and 50 percent. l871

    After the tax took effect, Kenney said it was 11 wrong 11 and "misleading" for businesses to pass the tax on to their customers
    in the form of higher soda prices.l88l 1n February 2017, soda manufacturers and retailers announced sales declines of 30-
    50% in Philadelphia and announced job cuts and layoffs. Kenny characterized the layoffs as evidence of greed among
    manufacturers.l891In the first four months of the soda tax $25.6 million was collected, which is lower than predicted.l90l The
    revenue is intended to pay for a pre-K program (49% of tax revenue), government employee benefits and city programs
    (20%), and rebuilding city parks and recreation centers.l91 l A recent study from 2017 found that Philadelphia's tax has
    decreased sugary beverage consumption in impoverished youth by 1.3 drinks/week.l921Langellier et al. also found that when
    paired with the pre-K program, attendance increases significantly, a finding that is likely to have longer term positive effects
    than a sugary drink tax alone.f921

    In March 2017, Pepsi laid off between 80 and 100 employees at two distribution plants in Philadelphia and one plant in

https://cn.m.wiklpedia.org/wiki/Sugary_drink_taxflAlbany.._Callfomia                                                                   11133
112212018                                                               Sugary drink tax - Wikipedin

    nearby Wilmington, Delaware. The company blamed the layoffs on the tax, an assertion rejected by the city government.l931

    In September 2016, the American Beverage Association, Philadelphia business owners, and other plaintiffs filed a lawsuit
    against the soda tax, alleging that the tax violated the ''Tax Uniformity Clause" of the state constitutionJ94H841The legal
    ch.allenge was dismissed by the Court of Common Pleas in December 2016, and in June 2017 the Commonwealth Court of
    Pennsylvania (in a 5-2 decision) affirmed that ruling. The ABA is appealing the decision to the Pennsylvania Supreme
    Court. [95)[96]


    San Francisco, California

    A one-cent-per-ounce soda tax (Prop V) passed with over 61 % of the vote on 8 November 2016 and will apply to
    distributors of sugary beverages on 1 January 2018.l971Exemptions for the tax include infant formulas, milk products,
    supplements, drinks used for medical reasons, and 100% fruit and vegetable juices.[981The soda industry spent almost $20
    million in its unsuccessful push to defeat the soda tax initiative, a record-breaking amount for a San Francisco ballot
    initiative. (991

    In 2014, the first referendum on a soda tax, Proposition E, was voted down by San Francisco; the 2014 referendum received
    the support of 55 percent of voters, short of the two-thirds required for a referendum directing money to a specific item (the
    referendum proposed directing the revenue raised to children's physical education and nutrition programs, and in San
    Francisco such earmarking requires a two-thirds vote to pass)J100J In that referendum campaign, the soda industry spent
    about $10 million in opposition to the proposed tax.f991


    Oakland, California

    A one-cent-per-ounce soda tax (Measure HH) passed with over 60% of the vote on 8 November 2016. The tax went into
    effect on 1 July2017.l9 71


    Albany, California
hllps:/fen .m.w1 kipedia.urglwiki/Sugary_drink_tax#Albany ~California                                                                12133
1/22/2018                                                                 Sugary drink iax - Wikipcdia


    A one-cent-per-ounce soda tax (Prop 01) passed with over 70% of the vote on 8 November 2016.C9 7J


    Boulder, Colorado

    A two-cents-per-ounce soda tax (Measure 2H) passed with 54% of the vote on 8 November 2016.[971The tax takes Bffect on
    July 1, 2017, and revenue will be spent on health promotion, general wellness programs and chronic disease prevention that
    improve health equity, and other health programs especially for residents with low income and those most affected by
    chronic disease linked to sugary drink consumption .11011The tax is exempted at the University of Colorado, Boulder, campus
    as school officials survey what types of drinks students wish to have. The University was not aware it would be involved in
    the soda tax, and would have to pay as much as $1 million a year to purchase it.l102l


    Cook County, Illinois

    A one-cent-per-ounce soda tax passed on November 10, 2016, by a 9-8 vote, board President Toni Preckwinkle breaking
    the 8-8 tie, of the Cook County Board of Commissioners; Cook County includes Chicago and the county's population is
    nearly 5.2 million. This was the most populous jurisdiction with a soda tax in the U.S.l1031The campaign to introduce the tax
    was heavily funded by Mike Bloomberg) 104l

    On June 30, 2017, a Cook County judge granted a temporary restraining order filed by the Illinois Retail Merchants
    Association and several Cook County-based grocers that prohibits the tax from being put into effect until at least July
    12)1051It went into effect on August 2. Due to a conflict with the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, this soda tax
    does not apply to any soda purchases made with food stamps, used by over 870,000 people.[io41r106l Controversially, the tax
    affected diet drinks but not sugar-packed fruit juices.l104J

    On October 10, 2017, the Board of Commissioners voted to repeal the tax in a 15-1 vote. The tax stayed in effect up until
    December 1st.l1071The tax was highly unpopular and seen mainly as an attempt to plug the county's $1.8 billion budget
    deficit, rather than a public health measureJ1041

https://cn .m.wildpcdia.org/wiki/Sugary_drink_taXH Albany.._Cnliforttia                                                             13133
1122/2018                                                              Sug<l{y drink taX - Wikipcdia

    Portland, Oregon

    The Coalition for Healthy Kids and Education is currently campaigning to get a soda tax on the May 2018 ballot. Their aim is
    to implement a 1.15 cents per ounce tax on sugary drinks. There are 18,000 signatures required by December 15, 2017 in
    order for the tax to be voted on in May. [1OBJ


    Seattle, Washington

    On June 5, 2017, Seattle's City Council voted 7-1 to pass a 1.75 cents per ounce tax on sugary drinks that will be paid by
    distributors; the tax does not include diet drinks.l109l


    Scientific studies

    Coca-Cola has been under fire since 2015 when emails revealed that funding for scientific studies sought to influence
    research to be more favorable to soda.l 110l Research funded by soda companies are 34 times more likely to find soda has no
    significant health impacts on obesity or diabetes.l111 l

    Taxing soda can lead to a reduction in overall consumption, according to a scientific study published in the Archives of
    Internal Medicine in March 2010. The study found that a 10 percent tax on soda led to a 7 percent reduction in calories from
    soft drinks. These researchers believe that an 18 percent tax on these foods could cut daily intake by 56 calories per person ,
    resulting in a weight loss of 5 pounds (2 kg) per person per year. The study followed 5, 115 young adults ages 18 to 30 from
    1985 to 2006.[112ll113l

    A 2010 study published in the medical journal Health Affairs found that if taxes were about 18 cents on the dollar, they would
    make a significant difference in consumption.l114H1 15)

    Research from Duke University and the National University of Singapore released in December 2010 tested larger taxes and
    determined that a 20 percent and 40 percent taxes on sugar-sweetened beverages would largely not affect calorie intake
    because people switch to untaxed, but equally caloric, beverages. Kelly Brownell , a proponent of soda taxes, reacted by
https :l/cn.m.wiki pcdia.org/wiki/Sugary_drink_tax#Albany~California                                                               14133
112212018                                                           Sugary drink tax - Wikipc:dia

    stating that " [t]he fact is that nobody has been able to see how people will really respond under these conditions." [1161
    Similarly, a 2010 study concluded that while people would drink less soda as a result of a soda tax, they would also
    compensate for this reduction by switching to other high-calorie beverages.[1171 In response to these arguments, the
    American Public Health Association released a statement in 2012 in which they argued that "Even if individuals switch to
    100% juice or chocolate milk, this would be an improvement, as those beverages contribute some nutrients to the diet. "[118]

    A 2011 study in the journal Preventive Medicine concluded that "a modest tax on sugar-sweetened beverages could both
    raise significant revenues and improve public health by reducing obesity". [1191 It has been used by the Rudd Center for Food
    Policy and Obesity at Yale to estimate revenue from a soda tax, depending on the state, year and tax rate.l120J

    A 2012 study by Y. Claire Wang, also in the journal Health Affairs, estimates that a penny per ounce tax on sugared
    beverages could prevent 2.4 million cases of diabetes per year, 8,000 strokes, and 26,000 premature deaths over 10
    years.l121l

    In 2012, just before the city of Richmond began voting on a soda tax, a study was presented at a conference held by the
    American Public Health Association regarding the potential effects of such a tax in California. The study concluded that,
    given that soda 1s price elasticity is such that taxing it would reduce consumption by 10-20 percent, that this reduction " .. .is
    projected to reduce diabetes incidence by 2.9-5.6% and CHO by 0.6-1.2%. "f122l

    A 2013 study in the American Journal of Agricultural Economics concluded that a 0.5-cent-per-ounce tax on soft drinks
    would reduce consumption, but "increase sodium and fat intakes as a result of product substitution," in line with the Duke
    University study mentioned above.l 123l

    A 2014 study published in the American Journal of Public Health concluded that Sugar-Sweetened Beverages (SSBs) don't
    have a negative impact on employment. Even though job losses in the taxed industry occurred, they were offset by new
    employment in other sectors of the economy.(1241

    A 2016 modelling study estimated that a 20% tax on SSBs would decrease the consumption of SSBs in Australia by 12.6%.
    The tax could decline the prevalence of obesity in the Australian population, which could lead to gains in health-adjusted life
https://cn.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sugasy_drink_wl/Albany~California                                                                        15133
lnl/2018                                                              Sugary drink tax - Wikipcdia

    years. The results showed an increase of 7.6 days in full health for a 20-24-year-old male and a 3.7 day increase in longevity
    for their female peers. [125]


    Proposals

    There have been a number of proposed taxes on sugary beverages, including:

   • In 1914, U.S. President Woodrow Wilson proposed a special revenue tax on soft drinks, beer and patent medicine after
        the outbreak of World War I caused a decline in imports and a corresponding decline in credit created by import tariffs.l1261
       This proposed taxation measure was not however linked to the anticipated health outcomes of reduced sugar sweetened
        beverage consumption.

   • In 1994, one of the first instances where the idea of a targeted tax on sugar sweetened drinks with a link to anticipated
        beneficial health outcomes, was proposed by Kelly D. Brownell, Director of the Rudd Center for Food Policy and Obesity
        at Yale.

   • In a 2009 "Perspective" piece in the New England Journal of Medicine, Kelly D. Brownell, Director of the Rudd Center for
        Food Policy and Obesity at Yale, and Thomas R. Frieden, Director of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,
        argue for taxing sugared beverages. The authors propose that sugared beverages may be the single largest cause of the
        obesity epidemic. They state that an excise tax of one cent per ounce would reduce consumption by more than 10%.l127J

   • Maryland and Virginia are two of 33 states that levy sales taxes on soda. Maryland taxes soda at a rate of 6%, while
       Virginia's rate is 1.5%. Virginia is also one of six states that impose a state excise tax on soda in addition to a sales
       tax.f12BJ

   • In 2009, the Obama Administration explored levying an excise tax on sweetened beverages as part of health care reform
        efforts, but the proposal was abandoned after heavy lobbying by the beverage industry.C1291

   • In 2010, New York State considered a soda tax, however opposition from the soda industry and economists made a
        strong antitax campaign, spending at least double of the tax supporters, so the plan failed.l130J

https:/len,m.wikipcdia.orglwiki/Sugary_drink_taxHAlbany,_California                                                                16133
1/22/2018                                                             Sugary drink taX - Wik.ipcdia

   • In 2012, the City Council of Richmond, California placed the soda tax on the November 2012 ballot along with an advisory
     measure asking voters how they would like to spend the tax revenue.f1311This proposal was rejected by the voters with
        67% voting no and 33% voting yesJ132][133J

   • In the California State Legislature, soda tax proposals have been introduced several times, but have not passed.l134l In
       2013, California state senator Bill Manning proposed a soda tax,[1 351but the bill died in committee.f13611n 2014, a 1-cent-
        per-ounce statewide soda tax was proposed in the legislature, but was defeated amid opposition by the California
        Beverage Association, a business lobbying group.[1371In2016, Assemblymen Richard Bloom and Jim Wood introduced a
       bill to create a 11 health impact fee 11 of 2-cent-per-ounce on sugary drinks, with the revenue collected from the tax to go
       toward programs for making drinking water safe, promoting oral health, and preventing obesity and diabetes.l1371
        However, the proposal again faced strong opposition from industry groups, and the bill's proponents withdrew the
        proposal without a vote after it became clear that it lacked the votes to pass.f134l

   • In June 2013, the city of Telluride, Colorado proposed a penny-per-ounce soda tax;l138l however, it was rejected in
        November, with 68% of voters voting against it.l1391

   • In July 2014, U.S. Representative Rosa Delaura of Connecticut, proposed a national soda tax bill in the House of
        Representatives. f1401

   • In November 2014, voters in San Francisco and Berkeley, California voted on soda tax ballot measures.!141 1The measure
        was approved in Berkeley[1421and received 55% of the vote in San Francisco, which was short of the needed 2/3
       supermajority.r1431

   • In November 2016, Santa Fe began considering a tax on all sugar-sweetened beverages, including soda, sports drinks,
        and iced tea, to fund early childhood education.P 44l However, voters rejected the proposal in a May 2017 special
        election.! 145J

    Public support

    A 2016 poll by Morning Consult-Vax finds Americans split on their support of a soda tax.! 1461Attitudes seem to have shifted

hllps://cn .m.wik.ipcdia.org/wiki/Sugary_drink_tax#Aibany~Califomia                                                                   17/33
1/22/201 8                                                             Sugary dnnk tax - Wikipedia

    a lot since 2013 when a poll concluded that "respondents were opposed to government taxes on sugary drinks and candy
    by a more than 2-to-1 margin."[1471In California, however, support for a tax has been high for a few years. According to a
    Field Poll conducted in 2012, 11 Nearly 3 out of 5 California voters would support a special fee on soft drinks to fight
    childhood obesity."(1481Support for a soda tax in New York was higher when pollsters say the money will go towards health
    care. A Quinnipiac University poll released in April 2010 found that New Yorkers opposed a state tax on soda of one penny
    per ounce by a 35-point margin, but opposition dropped to a margin of one point when respondents were told the money
    would go towards health care.l149l A Thompson Reuters poll released in the same month found that 51 percent of Americans
    opposed a soda tax, while 33 percent supported one.l150l


    Lobbying

    Fighting the creation of soft drink taxes, the American Beverage Association, the largest U.S. trade organization for soft
    drink bottlers, has spent considerable money lobbying Congress. The Association 's annual lobbying spending rose from
    about $391,000 to more than $690,000 from 2003 to 2008. And, in the 2010 election cycle, its lobbying grew to $8.67
    million. These funds helped to pay for 25 lobbyists at seven different lobbying firms.f1 51 1

    An industry group called "Americans Against Food Taxes," backed by juice maker Welch 's, soft drink maker PepsiCo Inc,
    the American Beverage Association, the Corn Refiners Association, McDonald's Corporation and Burger King Holdings Inc
    used national advertising and conducted lobbying to oppose these taxes.[1521The group has characterized the soda tax as a
    regressive tax, which would unfairly burden the poorl153l


    Arguments against the sugary drinks tax

    • The criteria on what drinks are taxed may not include equally bad substitutes like fruit juice, energy-dense snacks and
        biscuits. [1541

    • The tax is regressive since consumers on lower incomes will be more negatively impacted by higher prices than
        consumers on higher incomes.l154l This regressive effect of the sugary drinks tax can be counteracted if the collected tax

https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wi ki/Sugary_drink_tax#Albany._Cnlifornia                                                                 18133
1/22/2018                                                                Sugary drink tax - Wikipedia

        revenue is used to subsidize healthier foodsJ155J

   • Cross-border shopping can also be an easy way out for consumers to not pay the tax as they will buy sugary drinks from
        areas where they are not taxed.l1541

    Various Island Nations and Territories

    Island nations and territories have been successful in passing soda taxes. Just like with tobacco taxes, smaller communities
    are often the first to pass a new type of tax. l1561


    Barbados

    Barbados passed a soda tax in 2015.l157J


    Fiji

    Fiji has an import tax and an excise tax on soda.11 581


    French Polynesia

    French Polynesia implemented taxes on soft drinks in 2002.l 158l


    Mauritius

    Mauritius passed a soda tax in 2013.l159J


    Nauru

    Nauru implemented a soda t ax in 2007.l158l


https://en.m.wiki pedia.org/wiki/Sugary _drink_taxH Albany ~Califomi;i                                                         19133
1/22/2018                                                           Sugary drink tax - Wikipedia

   Samoa

   Samoa passed a soda tax in 1984.11 581


   St Helena

    In March 2014, the government of the island of St Helena, a British Overseas Territory in the South Atlantic, announced that
    it would be introducing an additional import duty of 75 pence per litre on sugar-sweetened carbonated drinks with more
    than 15 grams of sugar per litre.l160l The measure was introduced in May 2014 as part of a number of measures to tackle
    obesity on the island and the resulting high incidence of type 2 diabetes.


    Tonga

    Tonga has a soda tax.f16 1J


    See also

   • Meat tax

   • Fat tax

   • Tobacco tax

   • Pigovian tax

   • Sin Tax

   • Liquid Candy

   • List of countries by Body Mass Index (BMI)


hnps://en.m.wikipedia .org/wiki/Sugary_drinkJaX/IAlbany~Califomia                                                                  20/33
112212018                                                             Sugary dri nk   iax •   Wiki pcdia

   • Sugary Drinks Portion Cap Rule

    References

    1. "Consumption of Sports Drinks by Children and Adolescents"                       (PDF).       Healthy Eating Research. Retrieved 18 March 2016.

    2. Tavernise, Sabrina (11 October 2016). "W.H.O. urges Tax on Sugary Drinks to Fight Obesity" . The New York Times.
    Retrieved 8 November 2016.

    3. "Diabetes Fact Sheet" . World Health Organisation. November 2016. Retrieved 20 March 2017.

    4. "Sugar-Sweetened Beverages" . SugarScience. University of California, San Francisco.

    5. Malik, Vasanti S.; Popkin, Barry M.; Bray, George A.; Desprest Jean-Pierre; Willett, Walter C.; Hu, Frank B. (1 November
    2010). "Sugar-sweetened beverages and risk of metabolic syndrome and type 2 diabetes: a meta-analysis" . Diabetes
    Care. 33 (11): 2477-2483. doi:10.2337/dc10-1079 . PMC 2963518 . PMID 20693348 .

    6. "Cardiovascular diseases (CVDs)" . World Health Organization. Retrieved 2017-10-31.

    7. de Koning, Lawrence; Malik, Vasanti S.; Kellogg, Mark D.; Rimm, Eric B.; Willett, Walter C.; Hu, Frank 8. (2012-04-10).
    "Sweetened beverage consumption, incident coronary heart disease, and biomarkers of risk in men" . Circulation . 125 (14):
    1735-1741, S1 . doi:10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.111.067017 . ISSN 1524-4539 . PMC 3368965 . PMID 22412070 .

    8. Fung, Teresa T.; Malik, Vasanti; Rexrode, Kathryn M.; Manson, JoAnn E.; Willett, Walter C.; Hu, Frank 8 . (April 2009).
    "Sweetened beverage consumption and risk of coronary heart disease in women" . The American Journal of Clinical
    Nutrition. 89 (4): 1037-1042. doi:10.3945/ajcn.2008.27140 . ISSN 1938-3207 . PMC 2667454 . PMID 19211821

    9. "Obesity and overweight" . World Health Organisation. June 2016. Retrieved 20 March 2017.

    10. Lindsay H Allen; Andrew Prentice (28 December 2012). Encyclopedia of Human Nutrition 3E . Academic Press.
    pp. 231-233. ISBN 978-0- 12-384885-7. Retrieved 4 April 2013.

    11. Malik, Vasanti S; Schulze, Matthias B; Hu, Frank 8 (2006-8). "Intake of sugar-sweetened beverages and weight gain: a
hllps://en.m.wikipedia,orgfwiki/Sugary_drink_taxllAJbany._Califomia                                                                                  2 1133
1n21201s                                                              Sugary drink   laX •   Wikipedia

    systematic review" . The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition. 84 (2): 274-288. ISSN 0002-9165 . PMC 3210834 .
    PMID 16895873 . Check date values in: Idate= (help)

    12. Walton, Alice (15 May 2014). ''All Sugared Up: The Best And Worst Breakfast Cereals For Kids" . Forbes.

    13. Harford, Tim (16 March 2016). "The Budget's sugar tax is half-baked" . Financial Times.

    14. 'The Nutrition Source: Sugary Drinks" . Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. Harvard School of Public Health.

    15. Triggle, Nick (16 March 2016). "Sugar tax: How it will work?" . BBC News Online. Retrieved 22 March 2016.

    16. Silver, Marc (19 June 2015). "Guess Which Country Has The Biggest Increase In Soda Drinking" . National Public Radio.

    17. ECSIP (16 July 2014). Food taxes and their impact on competitiveness in the agri-food sector                     (Report). European
    Commission. pp. 27-30. Ref. Ares (2014) 2365745.

    18. Bittman, Mark (12 February 2010). "Is Soda t he New Tobacco?" . The New York Times.

    19. "Is Soda the New Tobacco?" . Business Insider. 16 November 2015.

    20. Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, "Who would be affected by soda taxes?"                          The Fed Letter, No. 284 Mar 2011.

    21. Adamy, Janet (2009-05-12). "Soda Tax Weighed to Pay for Healthcare" . The Wall Street Journal.

    22. McColl, Karen (March 2009). ''Fat Taxes and the Financial Crisis" . The Lancet. 373 (9666): 797-798.
    doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)60463-3 .

    23. Spaulding, William C. "Tax Incidence: How the Tax Burden is Shared Between Buyers and Sellers" . thismatter.com.

    24. Guerrero-Lopez, Carlos M., Mishel Unar-Mungufa, and M. Arantxa Calchera. "Price Elasticity Of The Demand For Soft
    Drinks, Other Sugar-Sweetened Beverages And Energy Dense Food In Chile". BMC Public Health 17.1 (2017): n. pag. Web.

    25. Calchera, M.A. et al. "Price Elasticity Of The Demand For Sugar Sweetened Beverages And Soft Drinks In Mexico" .
    Economics & Human Biology 19 (2015): 129-137. Web.


https://cn.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sugary_drink_tv..HAlbany._Califomia                                                                           22/33
112212018                                                                            Sugary drink tax - Wikipcditt

    26. Briggs, Adam. 11 SugarTax Could Sweeten A Market Failure". Nature 531.7596 (2016): 551-551. Web.

    27. Brownell, Kelly D. et al. 'The Public Health And Economic Benefits Of Taxing Sugar-Sweetened Beverages". New
    England Journal of Medicine 361.16 (2009): 1599-1605. Web.

    28. Saez, Emmanuel. "Externalities: Problems and Solutions Chapter 511                                           (PDF).   UC Berkeley.

    29. Jacobs, Andrew; Richtel, Matt (13 November 2017). "She Took On Colombia's Soda Industry. Then She Was
    Silenced" . The New York Times. Retrieved 14 November 2017.

    30. Scott-Thomas, Caroline. "Denmark to scrap decades-old soft drink tax 11

    31. Strom, Stephanie (12 November 2012). "'Fat Tax' in Denmark Is Repealed After Criticism" . The New York Times .

    32. "[Controversial sugar levy: France introduces a cola tax]" . Der Spiegel. 28 December 2011.

                                                                                                                                 2011-~2-30
                                                                            11
    33. "Coca-Cola part en guerre contre la "taxe sodas"                         ,   Le Monde, 2011, retrieved

    34. Bouckley, Ben (24 April 2013). "Soft drinks stall in France as consumers trade down: Canadean" . BeverageDaily.com.
    illiam Reed Business Media. Retrieved 1 April 2016.

    35. "Stopping slurping. Taxes on fizzy drinks seem to work as intended" . The Economist. 28 November 2015. Retrieved
    1 April 2016.

    36. Mario Mazzochi (University of Bologna), uThe impact of the French soda tax on prices, purchases and tastes: an ex post
    evaluation", Food Economics and Policy Seminar, TSE, April 28, 2017, 11 :00-12:30, room MS 003.

    37. editor, Denis Campbell Health policy (2016-03-17). "Sugar tax: financially regressive but progressive for health?" . The
    Guardian. ISSN 0261-3077 . Retrieved 2016-08-10.

    38. ''Sugar tax to come into effect in 2018; cigarettes up 50c'' . BreakingNews.ie. 1O October 2016.

    39. Rodriguez, Ruth (10 September 2013). "Experts applause ten percent on soda tax, (in Spanish)" . El Universal.
    Retrieved 31 October 2013.

https:I/en.m. wi k1pcdia .org/wi kl/Sugary_drink_ta:xNAl ban y~California                                                                     23133
112212018                                                                     Sugary drink tax - Wikipedia

    40. "Fizzing with rage" . The Economist. 19 October 2013. Retrieved 31 October 2013.

    41. Gutierrez-Alcala, Roberto (25 July 2013). "Morbid Obesity grows in Mexico, (in Spanish)" . El Universal. Retrieved
    31 October 2013.

    42. BALANCE (13 June 2011). "Each patient with diabetes cost the Mexican Government 708 USO in 2011, (in Spanish)"
    CNNMexico. CNNMexico. Retrieved 31 October 2013.

    43. Sanchez, Julian (12 September 2013). ''Tycoons and Sugar Cane productors reject soda tax, (in Spanish)" . El Universal.
    Retrieved 31 October 2013.

    44. Partlow, Joshua (26 October 2013). "Mexico's Soda companies fear junk-food tax" . The Washington Post. Retrieved
    31 October 2013.

    45. Figueroa-Alcantara, Hector (28 October 2013). "Mexican Senate approves tax scheme for 2014 1 (in Spanish)" .
    Excelsior. Retrieved 31 October 2013.

    46. Guthrie, Amy (7 January 2016). "Mexican Soda Tax Helps Curb Consumption, Study Shows" . The Wall Street Journal.
                                                                                                                                     11
    47. Melissa Healy. "Mexico's soda tax will save 18,900 lives and more than $983 million over 10 years, study says                     •   Los
    Angeles Times. Retrieved 2016-11-04.

    48. Colchero, M. Arantxa; Molina, Mariana; Guerrero-Lopez, Carlos M. (2017-06-14). "After Mexico Implemented a Tax,
    Purchases of Sugar-Sweetened Beverages Decreased and of Water Increased: Difference by Place of Residence,
    Household Composition, and Income Level" . The Journal of Nutrition: jn251892. doi:10.3945/jn. 117.251892 . ISSN 0022-
    3166 . PMID 28615377 .

    49. Tisdal!, Jonathan (26 June 2007). ""Chocolate tax" should go" . Aftenposten. Archived from the original                 on 26 June
    2007.

    50. "Avgiftssatser 2017"                      (in Norwegian). Government of Norway. 20 December 2016. Retrieved 20 March 2017.

    51. ABS-CBN News (December 20, 2017). "TRAIN explained: How the sugar tax will impact consumers" . ABS-CBN News .

https:/lenm.wikipcdla,org/wiki/Sugary_drink_tax/IAlbany..._Califomia                                                                                24133
1122/2018                                                                                    Sugary drink tax - Wikipcdi;i

    Retrieved 2017-12-21.

    52. "Coffee, juice, energy drinks to be taxed! 5 questions that you need to ask 11                                        •   The Philippine Star. 24 July 2017.
    Retrieved 2017-12-21 .

    53. "Relax lang: Milk, 3-in- 1 coffee excluded from Senate sugar tax bill -Angara 11                                           •   Politiko - politics.com.ph. 24 September
    2017. Retrieved 2017-12-21.

    54. 11 2016 budget people's guide"                               (PDF).   South African National treasury and Revenue Service. 2016-02-24. p. 4. Retrieved
    2016-02-24. "Obesity is a worldwide concern. South Africa has the worst obesity ranking in sub-Saharan Africa. This has led
    to greater risk of heart disease, diabetes and cancer. Government proposes to introduce a tax on sugar-sweetened
    beverages on 1 April 2017 to help reduce excessive sugar intake."

    55. UAE imposes 'sin' tax on soda, tobacco, and energy drinks                                          Business Insider October 3, 2017

    56. Gander, Kashmira (17 March 2016). "Budget 2016: George Osborne announces sugar tax on soft drinks industry" . The
    Independent.

    57. "New sugar tax confinned in fight to combat rising obesity" . 8 March 2017.

    58. "Sugar tax: How it will work? 11                         •   BBC News. 16 March 2016. Retrieved 18April 2016.

    59. Leslie, Ian (7 April 2016). "The sugar conspiracy" . The Guardian. Retrieved 15 November 2016.

    60. Briggs, A D. M.; Mytton, 0. T.; Kehlbacher, A; Tiffin, R. ; Rayner, M.; Scarborough, P. (2013). 11 0verall and income
    specific effect on prevalence of overweight and obesity of 20% sugar sweetened drink tax in UK: Econometric and
    comparative risk assessment modelling study" . BMJ. 347: f6189. doi:10.1136/bmj.f6189 . PMC 3814405 .
    PMID 24i 79043 .

    61. Sugar tax must apply to sweets as well as drinks, say campaigners                                               The Guardian

    62. Neville, Sarah (17 March 2016). "UK tax on sugary drinks is 'nannying' and 'impractical '" . Financial Times.

    63. Kaminska, lzabella (18 March 2016). "Robert Lustig: godfather of the sugar tax" . Financial Times .
hllps:/fen .m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sugary _drink_tax#Albany~California                                                                                                          25133
ll22120J8                                                            Sugary drink tax - Wikipedia

    64. Triggle, Nick (16 March 2016). "Sugar tax: How it will work?" . BBC News.

    65. "University of Glasgow - University news - Focusing on sugar in the fight against global obesity could be misleading" .
    www.gla.ac.uk. Retrieved 2016-08-10.

    66. Purdy, Chase (17 May 2016). 11 SODA SCUFFLE: The fight over taxing your sugary soda just kicked into high gear"
   Quartz. Retrieved 15 November 2016.

    67. Sorensen, Christian, Alec Mullee, and Harley Duncan (June 2017). "Soda Taxes: Old and New 11           •   The Tax Adviser. 48 (6):
    410-414.

    68. American Heart Association, http://americanheart.mediaroom.com/index.php?s=43&item=800                     statement], 24 August
    2009, Archived               28 August 2009 at the Waybaok Machine.

    69. "First U.S. soda tax cuts consumption beyond expectations" . Reuters. 28 October 2016. Retrieved 15 November
    2016.

    70. 11 Berkefey 2014 elections tune in here for live coverage" . Archived from the original     on 7 November 2014. Retrieved
    7 November 2014.

    71 . ''How Did Berkeley Pass A Soda Tax? Bloomberg's Cash Didn't Hurt" . NPR. 5 November 2014.

    72. "City of Berkeley Sugary Beverages and Soda Tax Question, Measure D (November 2014) 11           •   bal/otpedia.org.

    73. ''City of San Francisco Sugary Drink Tax, Proposition E (November 2014)" . Ba/lotpedia.

    74. Boscia, Ted (17 August 2015). "Study: Berkeley soda tax falls flat" . Cornell Chronicle. Cornell University. Retrieved
    2015-08-25.

    75. Falbe, J., N. Rojas, et al. (2015). "Higher Retail Prices of Sugar-Sweetened Beverages 3 Months After Implementation of
    an Excise Tax in Berkeley, California." Am J Public Health 105(11 ): 2194-2201.

    76. Anwar, Yasmin (23 August 2016). "Soda tax linked to drop in sugary beverage drinking in Berkeley" . UC Berkeley.


l\Ups://en .m.wiklpedia.org/wikJ/Sugary_drink_tax#Albany~Califomia                                                                         26/33
112212018                                                                             Sugary drink 1ax - Wikipcdin

    77. Falbe, Jennifer; Thompson, Hannah A. ; Becker, Christina M.; Rojas, Nadia; McCulloch, Charles E.; Madsen, Kristine A.
                            11
    (2016-08-23). Impact of the Berkeley Excise Tax on Sugar-Sweetened Beverage Consumption " . American Journal of
    Public Health . 106 (10): 1865-1871. doi:10.2105/ajph.2016.303362 . ISSN 0090-0036 .

    78. Silver, Lynn D.; Ng, Shu Wen; Ryan-Ibarra, Suzanne; Taillie, Lindsey Smith; lnduni, Marta; Miles, Donna A.; Poti, Jennifer
    M. ; Popkin, Barry M. (2017-04-18). '1Changes in prices1 sales, consumer spending, and beverage consumption one year
    after a tax on sugar-sweetened beverages in Berkeley, California, US: A before-and-after study'' . PLOS Medicine. 14 (4):
    e1002283. doi:10.1371/journal.pmed.1002283 . ISSN 1549-1676 .

    79. Silver, Lynn D.; Ng, Shu Wen; Ryan-Ibarra, Suzanne; Taillie, Lindsey Smith; lnduni, Marta; Miles, Donna R.; Poti, Jennifer
    M .; Popkin, Barry M. (18 April 2017). "Changes in prices, sales, consumer spending, and beverage consumption one year
    after a tax on sugar-sweetened beverages in Berkeley, California, US: A before-and-after study" . PLOS Medicine. 14 (4):
    e1002283. doi:10.1371/ journal.pmed.1 002283                             -via PLoS Journals.

    80. 11 Kenney: Soda tax would fund $400M in projects" . The Philadelphia Inquirer. 1 March 2016. Retrieved 20 March 2017.

    81 . 11 Bernie Sanders Op-Ed: A Soda Tax Would Hurt Philly's Poor11                                •   24 April 2016.

    82. CNN, David Wright. "Clinton 'very supportive' of Philadelphia soda tax                                       11
                                                                                                                          •




    83. 11 Soft drinks, hard lobbying 11                    •   The Philadelphia Inquirer. 6 March 2016. Retrieved 20 March 2017.

    84. Claire Saska, American Beverage Association Files Soda-Tax Lawsuit , Philadelphia Magazine (September 14, 2016).

    85. Fifteen health organizations file in Philadelphia's sugary drink t ax , American Heart Association News (March 10, 2017).

    86. Nadolny, Tricia L. (16 June 2016). 11 Soda tax passes; Philadelphia is first big city in nation to enact one" . The
    Philadelphia Inquirer. Retrieved 17 June 2016.

    87. Seattle's soda t ax has two goals" . King5. February 22, 2017. Retrieved February 23, 2017.
            11




    88. Retailers Blame Soda Tax; Mayor Kenney Responds With Harsh Words , CBS News Philadelphia, January 10, 2017

    89. Julia Terruso (2017). "Soda companies, supermarkets report 30-50 pct. sales drop from soda tax " Philly.com, 21 Feb
llUps://cn .m.wikipcdiu.org/wlk.ilSugary_drink_tnx#Albany~Califomin                                                                  27133
112V2018                                                                                  Sugary dri nk tax - Wikipedia

    2017.

    90. Philly: Soda tax revenue to fall short                         Philly.com, June 13, 2017

    91 . 11 Soda Tax Revenues Lag from Higher Prices, Fewer Purchases, Tax Avoidance 11                                    •   August 3, 2017.

    92. Langellier, Brent A.; Le-Scherban, Felice; Purtle, Jonathan (8/4/2017). "Funding quality pre-kindergarten slots with
    Philadelphia's new 'sugary drink tax': simulating effects of using an excise tax to address a social determinant of health" .
    Public Health Nutrition. 20 (13): 2450-2458. doi:10.1017/S1368980017001756 . ISSN 1368-9800 . Check date values in:
     I date= (help)
    93. Pepsi to lay off 80 to 100, blames soda tax , The Philadelphia Inquirer, March 1, 2017.

    94. Fabiola Cineas, Philly's Soda Tax Is Back in Court Today , Philadelphia Magazine (April 5, 2017).

    95. Pennsylvania Commonwealth Court upholds Philly soda tax                                          Billypenn.com, Retrieved June 23, 2107.

    96. Julia Terruso, Beverage tax upheld by Commonwealth Court , The Philadelphia Inquirer June 14, 2017

    97. Esterl, Mike (9 November 2016) .. "Soda Taxes Approved in Four Cities, Vote Looms in Chicago's Cook Counti' . The
    Wall Street Journal.
                                                                                11
    98. "Sugary Drinks Tax Frequently Asked Questions                                •   SF Treasurer. City and County of San Francisco. Retrieved
    30 October 2017.

    99. Knight, Heather (25 October 2016). "Record spending by soda industry to defeat Prop V'' . San Francisco Chronicle .

    100. Heather Knight, Why Berkeley passed a soda tax and S.F. didn 1t , San Francisco Chronicle (7 November 2014).
             11
    101. Sugar Sweetened Beverage Tax" . bouldercolorado.gov. Retrieved 2017-06-12.

    102. 11 NewsColorado News University of Colorado Boulder receives soda-tax exemption" . The Denver Post. Retrieved
    24 October 2017.

    103. Hal Dardick, Cook County soda pop tax approved with Preckwinkle breaking tie vote , Chicago Tribune (10 November
hnps://en .m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sugary_drink.Ja;(l/Al bany~Califomia                                                                                 28133
1/22/2018                                                                       Sugary drink tax - Wiklpedia

    2016).

    104. V.v.B (13 October 2017). "Chicago's soda tax is repealed" . The Economist.

    105. Channick, Becky Yerak, Robert. "Judge blocks Cook County soda pop tax" . chicagotribune.com.

    106. Cook County: Soda tax no longer runs afoul of food stamp rules                                 Chicago Tribune, August 17, 2017.

    107. Pathieu, Diane (2017-10-10). "Cook County officials vote 15- 1 to repeal sugary drink tax"                             . ABC7 Chicago. Retrieved
    2017-1 0-11 .

    108. Rafanelli, Rachael (September 16, 2017). "Soda tax in Multnomah County? Group working to get measure on 2018
    ballot" . KGW. Retrieved 30 October 2017.

    109. Seattle City Council says yes to soda tax                      Retrieved June 5, 2017

    110. O'Connor, Anahad. "Coca-Cola Funds Scientists Who Shift Blame for Obesity Away From Bad Diets" . The New York
    Times.

    111. "Does the soda industry manipulate research on sugary drinks' health effects?" . Los Angeles Times.

    112. Reuters, Tax Soda, Pizza To Cut Obesity Researchers say , 8 March 2010

    113. "Unhealthy Foods Become Less Popular With Increasing Costs" . American Medical Association. 8 March 2010.
    Archived from the original                       on 29 March 2010. Retrieved 18 January 2014.

    114. Health Affairs, Soda Taxes, Soft Drink Consumption, And Children's Body Mass Index                                   1 April 2010

    115. Associated Press Study: Small Soda Taxes Don't Dent Obesity                                 1 April 2010, Archived    4 April 2010 at the Wayback
    Machine.

    116. Park, Alice (13 December 2010) "Study: Soda Taxes May Not Be Enough to Curb Obesity"                                     TIME.

    117. Fletcher, Jason M. (December 2010). 'The effects of soft drink taxes on child and adolescent consumption and weight
    outcomes" . Journal of Public Economics. 94 (11-12): 967-974. doi:10.1016/j.jpubeco.2010.09.005 •
https://eo.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sugary_driok_rax#Albany.._Cal ifornia                                                                                        29/33
1/22/2018                                                                          Sugary drink tax - Wikipedia

    118. "Taxes on Sugar-Sweetened Beverages: Policy Statement 11                                •   APHA. 30 October 2012. Retrieved 20 March 2017.

    119. Andreyeva, T.; Chaloupka, F. J.; Brownell, K. D. (2011 ). "Estimating the potential of taxes on sugar-sweetened
    beverages to reduce consumption and generate revenue" . Preventive Medicine. 52 (6): 413-416.
    doi:10.1016/j.ypmed.2011.03.013 . PMID21443899 .

    120. Revenue Calculator for Sugar-Sweetened Beverage Taxes                                  Archived          7 May 2013 at the Wayback Machine.

    121 . Allison Aubrey, "Could a Soda Tax Prevent 2,600 Deaths Per Year?" NPR.org, 12 January 2012

    122. Health benefits, particularly in high risk populations, projected from an excise tax on sugar-sweetened beverages intake
    in California

    123. Zhen, Chen (July 2013). "Predicting the Effects of Sugar-Sweetened Beverage Taxes on Food and Beverage Demand in
    a Large Demand System " . American Journal of Agricultural Economics. 95: 1-25. doi:10.1093/ajae/aat049 .

    124. Lisa M. Powell, Roy Wada, Joseph J. Persky, Frank J. Chaloupka, "Employment Impact of Sugar-Sweetened Beverage
   Taxes" , American Journal of Public Health 104, no. 4 (April 1, 2014): pp. 672-677.

    125. Veerman JL, Sacks G, Antonopoulos N, Martin J (2016) The Impact of a Tax on Sugar-Sweetened Beverages on Health
    and Health Care Costs: A Modelling Study. PLoS ONE 11(4): e0151460. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0151460

    126. "Wilson Proposes Soft Drink Tax,"                           Hawaiian Gazette. 1 September 1914. Page 1. Retrieved 1 September 2014.

    127. Hartocollis, Anemona (2 July 2010). "Soda Tax in N.Y. a Victim of Industry Campaign" . The New York Times.

    128. "Miscellaneous Taxes" .

    129. Tom Hamburger and Kim Geiger, "Beverage Industry Douses Tax on Soft Drinks. 11                                     Los Angeles Times, 7 February
    2010.

    130. Hartocollis, Anemona (July 2, 2010). 11 Failure of State Soda Tax Plan Reflects Power of an Antitax Message'' . The New
    York Times.


hUps ://en.m,wikipedia.org/wiki/Sugary_drink_taxNAlbany_California                                                                                          30/33
1122/2018                                                             Sugary drink tax - Wikipedla

    131. 11 Richmond Municipal Code CHAPTER 7.08 SUGAR-SWEETENED BEVERAGES"                                 (PDF).

    132. Rogers, Robert (6 November 2012), "Voters resoundingly reject Richmond 'soda' tax" , MercuryNews.com, retrieved
    20 March 2017

    133. Rogers, Robert (7 November 2012). "Soda tax trounced in Richmond but may rise again on larger stages" . San Jose
    Mercury News. Retrieved 20 March 2017.

    134. Jeremy B. White, California soda tax bill pulled without a vote , Sacramento Bee (April 12, 2016).

    135. "New California Soda-Tax Bill Under Consideration" . The Huffington Post.

    136. "Bill Monning's Proposed Soda Tax Dies in Committee" . Monterey County Weekly.

    137. Patrick McGreevy, More expensive soda? Lawmakers want to tax sugary drinks , Los Angeles Times (March 8, 2016).

    138. Brendsel, Dave (26 June 2013). ''Telluride proposes soda tax" . Colorado Department of Public Health and
    Environment. Retrieved 9 August 2013.

    139. Meyer, Jeremy (6 November 2013). "Quirky ballot issues: Durango stuffs bag fee, Telluride slams soda tax" . The
    Denver Post. Retrieved 7 November 2013.

    140. Bittmanf Mark {29 July 2014). "Introducing the National Soda Tax" . The New York Times. Retrieved ; 0 September
    2014.

    141. Bump, Philip (7 October 2014). "How a soda tax fight in San Francisco explains California politics" . The Washington
    Post. Retrieved 24 October 2014.

    142. "City of Berkeley Sugary Beverages and Soda Tax Question, Measure D (November 2014)'' . Ballotpedia. Retrieved
    2016-05-07.

    143. "City of San Francisco Sugary Drink Tax, Proposition E (November 2014)" . Ballotpedia. Retrieved 2016-05-07.

    144. Mayor wants soda tax to support early childhood education                    Albuquerque Journal

hllps://en m.wikipedia.org/w[ki/Sugary~drink_tax/IAlbany~California                                                             31133
1/2212018                                                                              Sugary drink laX • Wikipedia

     145. T.S. Las1, Journal staff writer. "Updated: Soda tax goes flat in Santa Fe" . www.abqjournal.com.

     146. "Poll: Americans split on soda taxes " . 6 May 2016.

     147. "Most Americans Oppose Soda, CandyTaxes 11                             •   US News & World Report.

     148. 11 Poll shows support for soda tax 1o fight obesity" . SFGate.

     149. Drake, Bruce. "Tax Sugary Drinks? New Yorkers Say 'No' but Leave Some Wiggle Room"                                             Politics Daily. 14 April 2010.

     150. Hensley, Scott (21 April 2010). "In Obesity Fight, A Third Of Americans Support Soda Tax"                                      . NPR.

     151. "Lobbying Spending Database-American Beverage Assn, 2009 11                                        •   Center for Responsive Politics.

     152. Tax Soft Drinks To Fight Obesity, US experts say                           Reuters, 16 September 2009.

     153. "Education, Not Taxes                            Americans Against Food Taxes, 2012

     154. Silano, Marco, and Carlo Agostoni. "To Tax Or Not To Tax Sugary Drinks? This Is The Question". Journal of Pediatric
    Gastroenterology and Nutrition (2017): 1. Web.

     155. Brownell, Kelly D., and Thomas R. Frieden. "Ounces Of Prevention - The Public Policy Case For Taxes On Sugared
    Beverages". New England Journal of Medicine 360.18 (2009): 1805-1808. Web.

     156. "Tobacco War" .

     157. Deane, Sandy (15 June 2015). "Tax on sweet drinks"

     158. Thaw, Anne Marie; Quested, Christine; Juventin, Lisa; Kun, Russ; Khan, A . Nisha; Swinburn, Boyd (1 March 2011).
    'Taxing soft drinks in the Pacific: implementation lessons for improving health " . Health Promot. Int. 26 (1): 55-64.
    doi:10.1093/heapro/daq057 . PMID 20739326                                - via heapro.oxfordjournals.org.

     159. Diep, Francie (13 October 2016). "A World Tour of Sugary Taxes"

    160. St Helena Government (21 March 2014). "Budget Speech 2014" . Retrieved 26 March 2014.


hltps:l/eo.m.wi Ripcdia.org/wiki/Sug31)' _dri nk_laxHAl b311 y~California                                                                                             32133
J/2Y2018                                                                          Sugary drink lllX - Wikipedia

    161. "Health-related Taxes on Food and Beverages"                          (PDF).


    External links

   • Rudd Center for Food Policy and Obesity at Yale University

   • UNESDA Industry Opinion on a Soda Tax

   • Ounces of Prevention - The Public Policy Case for Taxes on Sugared Beverages : "Perspective" piece in the New
       England Journal of Medicine, by Kelly Brownell and Tom Frieden

   • Want a Healthier State? Save Gov. Paterson's Tax on Sugar Soda : Op-Ed in the New York Daily News, by Kelly Brownell

   • Rudd Report on Sugar-Sweetened Beverage Taxes: An Updated Policy Brief : by the Rudd Center for Food Policy and
       Obesity at Yale



            Last edited 18 hours ago                 o~   rln ananvmous user




https://en.m.wikipedia.orglwiki/Sugary_drink_taxHAlbany._Califomia                                                          33/33
                                                       ~
                                                           COUNCIL MEE'!JNG
                                                             ' - t:?-,;J -1_1:1
                                                           [ ] Placed Before Meeting
                                                         . [ ] Received at Meeting
My name is David Shen and I live on Churchill Ave.

Last November near Thanksgiving, I heard about the project to upgrade
Caltrain and the desire to upgrade the intersections that cross Alma and
train tracks.

I would like to express my extreme disappointment at the
communications to the community on this initiative. I found out after 2
meetings had already taken place, but managed to attend 2 following
meetings.

I would urge the Council to direct staff working on this project to
expand and improve community communications.

I also would like to comment that the meetings we had with staff were
inadequate. I felt that the activities and questions they asked us to
answer were leading and suggested that a direction was preferred
already. The options that were discussed were also not broad enough
to include all options and left out, without explanation, some obvious
options.

I would urge the Council to direct staff to improve meetings with the
community to better inform, involve, and not raise unnecessary
anxiety.

On the note regarding raising unnecessary anxiety, I would request that
the Council come to some clear direction regarding Churchill in an
efficient, informed, and timely manner and not delay it.

On the note regarding being informed, I would urge the Council to
perform better, more complete, and accurate research on the costs and
options. I personally reviewed the latest Circulation study and found it
to be lacking and inaccurate in many areas. Others have reviewed the
latest Financial study and found similar issues.

In addition, our community has been having meetings and has come up
with some guiding principles and a position on what to do with the
intersection at Churchill and Alma.

I would urge the Council to adapt these guiding principles when
considering options to pursue:

  1. Highest ROI on invested dollars and maximum use of existing
     infrastructure;
  2. Making pedestrian and bicycle safety the highest priority;
  3. Maintaining community neighborhoods' integrity;
  4. Ensuring no eminent domain seizure of homes.

Our position on grade separation is:

   1. We support any raised or lowered rail option while keeping
      Churchill at grade;
   2. We are opposed to any raised or lowered option for Churchill
      Road, especially when considering the advantages of other
      options;
   3. As an alternative to either mentioned, we also support keeping
      the Churchill Ave crossing at-grade but closing it on the West side,
      and implementing other measures to improve East-West traffic
      and improve pedestrian and cyclist safety and access.

Thank you.
    RE 'URNA DDRESS:   A/\ - .;-~.s ¥'.::I'-                   04-~f:Sf>Os,.~
    _/d.~/__
          J_j~
             -
       \~L-\1)-C..~~ (hl)t,.
                                         'f
                                                              ~E,'
                                                              w      r-=-w..
                                                                ~ --.----PITNE
                                                                                             '1.   ==-
                                                                                                   DOWES


    -~oloJ.\1.o_1-CA-
                    ~~\ -                      •
                                               ~
                                                    02 1P
                                                    000081 2598 OCT 1 8 2017
                                                                                    $ 00 •.-,.
    I support Castilleja's proposal to . .     ~MAILED FROM ZIP CODE 94301
    increase enrollment and modernize rts
                    I \ove, -to \eoJ1\
    campus because ...
                                                                            -         n!:?
 Md ~ kaANJN ~ ~s wi 11
                                                                            CD        --1
                                                                                      ...-<
                                                                            c..       -<
                                                                            !:
                                                                            -N        ,-n
CfeJMt., ;W~ a~r-tun\f\e.s -tor
                                                                                      00

                                                                            (.,.)
                                                                                      fTT°j!.
                                                                                      '.X}r-
S-fvdl/bk. It~ \\M~r-\CVAt for-                                                       ~o
0 ids 1-o ~e..\- 0-...    roa
                         t.d VCV\tiOY\
so vJQ_ Co.h VWA-i't t\ta.. world £A
                                                 Office of the Clerk~
                                                 Please distribute to all
                                                                                      c.I'
                                                                            afS Co~~embers
                                                 2 50 Hamilton Avenca, 7t?mmor
                                                                    re n·
                                                 Palo Alto, CA, 943..,~ m~
VJ ~-\Av1' ~c~.
               ~    ~             €,r\
                                   ~)
 I
        0-          0
        ~      0                  ()
~
0
:::!?   =~~~
               =9           ::
                                  OJ
)>      ~ ~                       (/)
:J                                r+
:J
Ill
        ~ 0~ ..... ~
                         = =-
:J
        •      ~    ~
                         =-
            ...... .... ..... =
                                  -·
                    ~
                   ~~         ·   ,<D.
                        ... ...   OJ     "
                                                                             ~~i!l>Pas,;
                                                      .          't!J i~~,. -~.=J
                                                                   . :::>z      ' - - -...          =--
                                                                                   - P I T N I V 80Wl!S

                                                  •                         « 02 1P        $ 00 J.J40
                                                  ~~~~~ 0000812598                             OCT 18 2017
    I support Castilleja's proposal to            ._~~
                                                   ........._.:aos;,;..i.;JS:a; MAILED FROM ZIP CODE 94301
    increase enrollment and modernize its                                                    C')n
                                                                                             --4
    campus because...                  •                                                     -t-<
  O~/ ?~u.A.t~ ~I I '->.~~77                                                                 -<
                                                                                             no
                                                                                             r--n .:..
  -~;-- fr~ 1 '" l..S J.-.c._v, ~                                                        ~~-
~ CY~ r-..,1-, ue;;:,_ ~ ~ ~~
                                                                                         ~r- ~
                                                                                     x-- u;o

-h-r ~I'*"~ Tu-1- ~                                       Office of the Clerk        ~ ~~                    i
                                                          Please distribute to all C it~ou n~bers
L--~~;;P /~~A-:!~                                         250 Hamilton AvenuF7th ~
~ 1:r~~1~'7 Uri"~                                         Palo Alto, CA, 94301

~le;-(.       Hy-<-£1 ~ i,'h~
-h-e-,..1-~4-/~~ ,-e-./ ~IJ7 .e.-:,
/y.r/c..r- &;11~~;+--~                     'it:.
J....---.(.r- .;,.- 1~-i.~ ~ 4'ilji" . ·~~fiiill'li 11 l 1 11 li 1 i 1 1itli11ll
                          1 1 1

 -c..-~....a,. ~ ..r.A-"..Le../ ~~-~-
                   ',




 (i)                e:.~
~
()               ~~=
                 ~ 0           ......
        0
CJ      ::::!?
        "        =  ~~
(/)     )>                              1
 r-+-   :l       ~o
                 ~ ~ =~
        :l              ~~
 -·     Q.I      ~~
        :l       ~ I-I•
                   ~    ~
 Cl)
                    ~   ~·
'---•
                 ....... =- =
                        ~
 CJ                ~
                        ...~
