                    City of Palo Alto                                     (ID # 9651)
                    City Council Staff Report

Report Type: Informational Report           Meeting Date: 11/5/2018

Summary Title: Presentation of a Gift to the City from Cubberley Artists

Title: Presentation of Gift to the City by Cubberley Artists of Veterans’ Art
Book

From: City Manager

Lead Department: Community Services

Executive Summary
Cubberley Artists Daniele Archambault, Servane Briand and Paloma Lucas led the first
Cubberley Artist Studio Program (CASP) collaborative comic book project in honor of
Veteran’s Day 2017.         The final book, Thank You for Your Service, featuring
contributions by the community in honor of veterans, is being presented as a gift to the
City of Palo Alto, during the City’s Veteran’s Day event on November 5th.

Background and Discussion
The 2017 annual CASP open studios festivities took place on Saturday, November 11 th –
Veteran’s Day. The entire event commemorated veterans, including an exhibition of
veteran photography and prose titled, Seeing Hope, writing and photo workshops, more
than 20 open studios, and a collaborative comic book project.

Artists Daniele Archambault, Servane Briand and Paloma Lucas hosted visitors in their
studios to create the first CASP collaborative comic book project as a rememberance of
and thank you to veterans. Visitors were invited to create short comic strips with
colored pencils on a template provided by the artists. Participants were encouraged to
share their own feelings of gratitude and connection with the military community. Each
of the ninety strips was scanned, compiled and turned into a collection of three books
with an e-book version available online.

Titled Thank You for Your Service, the final book is comprised of the original pages
created on 8.5” x 5.5” archival paper that have been bound into a series of three books:
Stories, Memories and Imageries. It was edited, printed, and hand-bound by
Archambault, Briand and Lucas at the Cubberley Artist Studios in Palo Alto and housed
in a hand-made portfolio box. Each of the book covers is made of army uniform fabric
and is titled in the font used to display names on uniforms. Archambault, Briand and


City of Palo Alto                                                                 Page 1
Lucas also made seven copies of the books in repurposed ammunition boxes. Thank
You for Your Service was recently on display at the American Bookbinders Museum in
San Francisco and is now being presented to the City as a gift.

The book will be made available to the public through Palo Alto Libraries. An e-book will
also be available for free to the public.




City of Palo Alto                                                                   Page 2
