                    City of Palo Alto                             (ID # 8935)
                    Palo Alto Public Improvement Corporation Staff Report

Report Type: Action Items                        Meeting Date: 2/26/2018

Summary Title: Public Improvement Corporation Board

Title: Approval of 2016-17 Public Improvement Corporation Financial
Statement

From: City Manager

Lead Department: Administrative Services

Recommendation
Staff recommends that the Board of Directors of the Public Improvement Corporation (PIC)
approve the 2016-17 financial statement for the Public Improvement Corporation.

Background
The Public Improvement Corporation (PIC) is a nonprofit corporation formed by the City in
1983, allowing the City to issue Certificates of Participation (COPs) to fund capital
improvements. The PIC, through a lease structure, finances the acquisition, improvement, and
construction of City facilities. The PIC uses the lease payments by the City’s General Fund to pay
the debt service on the COPs.

On July 13, 1998, Council adopted a resolution establishing itself as the Board of Directors of
the PIC. In 1983 and 1998, the City of Palo Alto issued COPs to fund improvements to the Civic
Center and the Golf Course, respectively. In 2002, the Civic Center bonds were refinanced due
to a lower interest rate environment and COPs were issued to finance the construction of
commercial space adjacent to the new parking structure on Bryant/Florence Street. The bylaws
of the PIC require the Board of Directors of the Corporation to meet at least annually and
approve the financial statement for the Corporation. Therefore, the City Council is required to
meet annually as the Board of the PIC.

The Downtown Parking Improvement bonds were used to build a two story above-ground
structure of approximately 7,638 square feet which was leased to a commercial tenant. This is
the only remaining COP. The Golf Course COP principal amount of $3.7 million was retired by a
private placement refinancing. The City realized net present savings of $239,000 or 6.47
percent on refunded bonds. The Civic Center bonds were issued to undertake various
improvements to the City’s existing Civic Center and were paid off in 2012.



City of Palo Alto                                                                           Page 1
Discussion
The attached financial statement shows the financial condition of the PIC. The debt service
payments have been made on time and all financial requirements, such as the maintenance of a
reserve, have been met. At year-end, June 30, 2017, total outstanding debt principal on the
COPs equaled $0.98 million as follows:
                                                     Principal        Year Debt will
                   COP Description                  Outstanding          be Retired
                                                     (millions)
       2002B Downtown Parking Improvements             $0.98                2022
         Total COP                                     $0.98

Staff recommends that the Board of Directors of the Public Improvement Corporation (PIC)
approve the 2016-17 financial statement for the Public Improvement Corporation.

Resource Impact
Approval of the Public Improvement Corporation’s financial statements will have no resource
impact.

Policy Implications
Approval of the Public Improvement Corporation’s financial statements is consistent with prior
Council policy direction and resolutions.

Environmental Review
This is not a project, as defined in Section 21065 of the California Environmental Quality Act
(CEQA).
Attachments:
     Attachment A: Public Improvement Corporation Fiscal Year 2017 Financial Statement




City of Palo Alto                                                                       Page 2
Attachment A
