                    City of Palo Alto                                             (ID # 9936)
                    City Council Staff Report

Report Type: Action Items                        Meeting Date: 12/17/2018

Summary Title: 429 University Avenue: Appeal of Director's Decision on
Condition Compliance

Title: PUBLIC HEARING / QUASI-JUDICIAL: 429 University Avenue [18PLN-
00240]: Appeal of the Planning and Community Environment Director's
Denial of a Minor Architectural Review Application for Proposed Exterior
Building Materials, Colors, and Craftsman Related to a Previously Approved
Mixed-Use Project. Environmental Assessment: Use of Mitigated Negative
Declaration Prepared for 14PLN-00222. Zoning District: CD-C(G)(P)
(Downtown Commercial With Ground Floor and Pedestrian Shopping
Overlay) (Continued From December 3, 2018)

From: City Manager

Lead Department: Planning and Community Environment


Recommendation
Staff recommends the City Council:
        1. Deny the appeal by Kipling Post, LP of the Director’s partial denial of Application No.
           18PLN-00240 and approve the corresponding Record of Land Use Action.
        2. Amend the City Council’s prior approval, memorialized in Record of Land Use Action
           No. 2017-02, by extending the term of that approval to December 31, 2019.

Executive Summary
This report provides the background information concerning prior City Council review of the
429 University Avenue project, subsequent Architectural Review Board review for condition
compliance, and the current appeal of the Planning and Community Environment Director’s
decision. Kipling Post, LP timely appealed the Director’s Decision partially approving and
partially denying an application for minor architectural review. Other elements of the project,
including the square footage and overall massing of the project, were conditionally approved by
the City Council in 2017 and are beyond the scope of the present appeal. The sole issue
currently in dispute is the Director’s denial regarding exterior building materials, colors, and


City of Palo Alto                                                                           Page 1
craftsmanship-related detailing.

Background
This project was first presented to the City Council on appeal from a Director’s approval on April
6, 2015. After holding public hearings on May 4 and November 30, 2015, the Council directed
that it be returned to the ARB for further refinement. The project returned to the Council on
February 6, 2017, at which time the City Council denied the appeal, approved the Mitigated
Negative Declaration and Mitigation and Monitoring Plan, and approved a modified project
with conditions. Among these conditions was a requirement the project to return to the ARB to
evaluate the following three specific items:

    a. A decorative wall design treatment, feature or element, shall be applied to the exterior
       walls immediately adjacent to the southern property line (project’s south elevation)

    b. Landscape details and plans for all proposed planting, including individual planters, the
       greenwall, and landscaping near the rooftop elevator.

    c. The exterior building materials, colors and craftsmanship-related detailing associated
       with the project.

The previous staff report from the February 6, 2017 hearing includes extensive background
information, project analysis and evaluation against City Codes and Policies. The report, action
minutes, transcript, and video of the meeting are available online:

February 6, 2017
       Document                                                 Link
Staff Report                      https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/55707
Action Minutes                    https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/56154
Transcript                        https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/56868
Video                             http://midpenmedia.org/city-council-115/

On March 20, 2017, staff returned to City Council with written findings contained in a Record of
Land Use Action (Attachment D). These findings specifically relied on the existence of the
conditions highlighted above. With respect to the City’s former Architectural Review findings, 1
the conditions were incorporated into findings 2, 4, 5, and 6, relating to context and
compatibility:


1
 The City Council updated and streamlined its Architectural Review findings in December 2016, which the earlier
appeal of the project was pending. The Council’s adopted Record of Land Use Action analyzed the project under
both the former and current Architectural Review findings.


City of Palo Alto                                                                                         Page 2
         “. . . Conditions of approval for the project also ensure that the design of the
         building will be compatible with the immediate environment of the site.
         Conditions No. 3b and 3c require that the applicant return to the ARB for
         approval of the materials, colors, craftsmanship and landscaping, and Condition
         No. 3a requires a decorative wall treatment, feature or element along the
         southern elevation of the building. These requirements will ensure that design
         features are compatible with the immediate environment of the site. . . .”

With respect to the City’s current Architectural Review findings, the conditions were
incorporated into finding 3, relating to high aesthetic quality and compatibility with the
surrounding area:

         “. . . Lastly, the project, will have high quality materials, textures, colors and
         finishes because it is conditioned to return to the Architectural Review Board for
         review and recommendation to the Director of Planning and Community
         Environment of exterior building materials, colors and craftsmanship-related
         detailing associated with the project. . . .”

March 20, 2017:
       Document                                             Link
Staff Report                  https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/56356
Action Minutes                https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/56839
Transcript                    https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/57427
Video                         http://midpenmedia.org/city-council-120/

The applicant submitted project plans on July 30, 2018 addressing the three items conditioned
by the City Council. The ARB reviewed these proposals at the August 16, 2018, September 20,
2018, and October 4, 2018 public hearings. All of these reports and minutes are also available
online:

The project plans reviewed at the October 4, 2018 hearing are available as Attachment H of this
staff report and available online: bit.ly/429University.

August 16, 2018 ARB
 Document                                            Link
Staff Report    https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/66300
Minutes         https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/66728
Video           http://midpenmedia.org/architectural-review-board-74-2-3-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2/

September 20, 2018


City of Palo Alto                                                                             Page 3
 Document                                                Link
Staff Report        https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/66720
Minutes             https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/67283
Video               http://midpenmedia.org/architectural-review-board-74-09202018/

October 4, 2018
 Document                                            Link
Staff Report    https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/66964
Minutes         https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/67470
Video           https://youtu.be/PKsAfsK0TbA?t=456

On October 4, 2018, the ARB recommended denial of the subject application. After considering
the ARB’s comments, the Interim Planning and Community Environment Director approved in-
part for the design of the west wall (Condition 3A) and the landscaping (Condition 3B). The
Interim Direction also denied in-part for the materials, colors and craftsmanship-related
detailing associated with the project (Condition 3C) on October 16, 2018. The decision letter is
included in Attachment C.

On October 18, 2018, the applicant, Kipling Post LP, filed a timely appeal (Attachment B)
pursuant to Palo Alto Municipal Code section 18.77.070. The appeal notes that the materials,
colors, and craftsmanship are integral features of the project, modeled after buildings at 102-
116 University Avenue. These features were sought with the approval for and granted by
Council. The appellant notes that Planning staff did not object to the concrete and had
recommended approval to the ARB.

The appellant further states that because the project has residential units, the project must be
reviewed in the context of California’s Housing Accountability Act (CHAA). The appellant states
that the purpose of the statute is to limit the ability of local governments to “reject or make
infeasible housing developments…without a thorough analysis of the economic, social and
environmental effects of the action.” Because the residential units are encompassed in the
CHAA and comply with objective standards, the City must provide evidence supporting the
denial with specific findings that they approval would result in a “specific, adverse impact” on
“public health or safety.” The appellant states that no such findings were made, nor can such
findings be made as the City has no objective, identified written public health or safety
standards or policies that would warrant disapproval.

On November 13, 2018, the appellant’s attorney, Timothy Kassouni, submitted a letter brief
arguing that the appeal must be upheld for a variety of reasons, including that the October 16,
2018 Director’s decision conflicted with the Council’s findings in Record of Land Use Action
2017-02, that the City’s architectural review findings are unconstitutionally vague, and that the


City of Palo Alto                                                                          Page 4
CHAA applies to this project. The City Attorney’s Office will provide separate, confidential
advice evaluating Mr. Kassouni’s assertions. Correspondence from Mr. Kassouni is provided in
Attachment G.

On November 29, 2018, Kipling Post submitted a supplement to the appeal stating that the
primary issue on appeal concerns compliance with Condition of Approval No. 3. Kipling Post
argues that the denial is in error, lacks substantial evidence, is inconsistent with previous
findings, exceeds the scope of the condition, and wrongly relies on elements of the Municipal
Code that apply to new applications, and not condition compliance. This additional
correspondence from Kipling Post is provided in Attachment H.

The applicant/appellant’s appeal was agenized for the City Council’s December 3, 2018 consent
calendar. At this meeting, the City Manager recommended removal from the consent calendar
to schedule for a future hearing and allow staff time to respond to questions regarding changes
to the fourth floor.

Discussion
The Council’s purview in this appeal is limited to the items discussed in the Director’s decision.
Other elements of the project, including the square footage and overall massing of the building,
were approved in 2017 and are beyond the scope of the present appeal. Of the items discussed
in the Director’s decision, only the Director’s denial regarding exterior building materials,
colors, and craftsmanship-related detailing is disputed by the applicant. Some questions have
arisen regarding the project’s compliance with the original Council approval with regard to
massing on the fourth floor, which is discussed further in this report.

Appeal Issue 1: Exterior building materials, colors and craftsmanship-related detailing

Response: The ARB reviewed the applicant’s proposal for exterior building materials, colors and
craftsmanship-related detailing at the August 16, September 20, and October 4, 2018 meetings.
Although the ARB was able to provide some feedback at its August 16 and September 20
meetings, which the applicant incorporated into the design – such as use of lighter colors and
more clearly differentiating between the upper and lower floors – the applicant did not provide
renderings of the craftsmanship-related detailing in context until the October 4, 2018 hearing.
Upon reviewing these renderings, the ARB noted that the details were not adequate for
approval. More specifically, the project does not comply with the contextual and compatibility
criteria of the municipal code in that it does not share general characteristics or establish
design linkages with the overall pattern of development. Surrounding buildings have design
elements and material detailing that are human-scaled, regardless of the overall building
envelope. The ARB found that the project’s lack of such features rendered it incompatible with
the surrounding area.



City of Palo Alto                                                                           Page 5
On October 15, 2018, the Interim Director provided Kipling Post LP an opportunity to
incorporate detailing into the design in an effort to secure complete project approval. Kipling
Post LP refused the opportunity. The Interim Director’s communication to the applicant is
provided in Attachment F and states that minor adjustments, such as incorporating sunshades
or awnings along University Avenue and adding texture to the exterior concrete on the first and
second floors would bring the project into alignment with the required findings.

Appeal Issue 2: Review of the project as a residential project under the California Housing
Accountability Act.

Response: The project is a mixed-use project, consisting of residential, commercial and office
uses. The CHAA applies to “housing development projects,” including mixed-used projects with
at least two thirds of the square footage designated for residential use. The project approved
by the City Council on February 6, 2017 includes 20,407 square feet of non-residential uses and
only 8,140 square feet of residential uses. This ratio of residential to commercial floor area
disqualifies this project from being subject to the CHAA.

Amendment of Record of Land Use Action 2017-02 to extend entitlement

The Council’s approval of a modified project on February 6, 2017 required that the applicant
secure a building permit within one year. In order to allow the applicant to incorporate the
Council-directed modifications and to seek ARB approval of the three remaining items, the
Planning Director approved a one-year extension of the project entitlement to February 6,
2019, but any further extension would require Council action. The applicant asserts that any
expiration of its entitlement would be invalid in light of its good faith attempt to commence
construction. If the Council denies the applicant’s current appeal or continues the hearing, staff
recommends that the Council amend its prior approval to extend the life of the entitlement
until December 31, 2019. This extension would avoid potentially unnecessary disputes
regarding the validity of the original entitlement while the applicant resolves any remaining
issues regarding exterior building materials, colors, and craftsmanship.

Project Revisions to the Fourth Floor
Some questions have been raised regarding changes made to the fourth floor since the City
Council approved the project. These changes were necessitated to restore floor area removed
from other portions of the building to accommodate project refinement. The conceptual
project plans approved by the City Council did not benefit from the typical review process and
were never fully developed by the applicant. It was anticipated that there would be some
refinement to account for compliance with building code and other requirements. Moreover,
the applicant received approval for a certain amount of project floor area. While the fourth
floor received considered attention when this project was previously reviewed by Council to


City of Palo Alto                                                                           Page 6
ensure neighborhood compatibility – this floor level offered the only reasonably place to
accommodate the lost floor area. Approximately 600 square feet of the building floor area was
transferred to the fourth floor. This includes portions of the third floor at the corner of Kipling
and University that the City Council directed be removed to reduce mass. While a portion of the
building was removed from this location, the overall project floor area was not reduced and
there was no guidance on where that floor area would be placed.

When accounting for this and other floor area, staff directed the additional area way from
Kipling and University Avenue. The floor area respects the previously approved setbacks and is
located toward the interior property line, which is largely hidden from view. Staff’s review of
the building finds it generally consistent with the conceptual plans previously reviewed by the
City Council. The diagram below highlights the approximate location of the change.



                                                               New Area Approximately
                                                                24’ addition along alley
                                                               and 14’ along interior side




         Evaluation of Landscaping
         The project proposes landscaping in planters bordering the open space area along the
         Lane 30 alley. The landscaping is placed in five planters, and the applicant includes the
         garden wall concept previously reviewed by Council. The appilcant proposes 18
         rectangular planters bordering the edge of the fourth floor glass railing. These planters
         are two-and-a-half feet (2.5 ft) long, 18 inches wide and 20 inches high. The Option 1


City of Palo Alto                                                                            Page 7
         plan did not include planters on the fourth floor.

Environmental Review
The subject project has been assessed in accordance with the authority and criteria contained
in the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), the State CEQA Guidelines, and the
environmental regulations of the City. On February 6, 2017, the City Council approved the Initial
Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration for this project, which is available online at:
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/49897
Attachments:
Attachment A: Draft Record of Land Use Action (DOCX)
Attachment B: October 18, 2018 Appeal of Director's Decision (PDF)
Attachment C: October 16, 2018 Director's Decision Letter      (PDF)
Attachment D: February 6, 2017 Record of Land Use Action       (PDF)
Attachment E: Location Map (PDF)
Attachment F: Email Correspondence to Kipling Post LP, dated October 15, 2018   (PDF)
Attachment G: Kassouni Law Kipling Post Correspondence, Dated November 13 and October
31, 2018      (PDF)
Attachment H: Kipling Appeal Supp Final 11 29 18 (PDF)
Attachment I: Appellant Correspondence (PDF)
Attachment J: Project Plans (DOCX)




City of Palo Alto                                                                          Page 8
                                      APPROVAL NO. ____
                    RECORD OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF PALO ALTO LAND USE
                       ACTION FOR 425 AND 429 UNIVERSITY AVENUE: MINOR
                        ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW APPLICATION [18PLN-00240]

              On December 3, 2018, the City Council of the City of Palo Alto considered an appeal of
  the Planning and Community Environment Director’s decision to deny in part a Minor Architectural
  Review for the exterior building materials, colors and craftsmanship-related detailing subject to the
  following findings, determinations and declarations to support their decision:


              SECTION 1. Background. The City Council of the City of Palo Alto (“City Council”) finds,
determines, and declares as follows:
                A.     The project site is comprised of two lots, 425 and 429 University Avenue (APN Nos.
120-15-029 and 120-15-028, respectively) of approximately 11,000 square feet. The site contains two
commercial structures bordered by University Avenue to the southeast, Lane 30 E to the northwest, and
Kipling Street to the northeast. Single-story businesses border the site to the northeast along Kipling
Street, and one-and-a-half story businesses border the project site along University Avenue.
               B.       On February 6, 2017, the City Council denied an appeal, thereby affirming the
decision of the Planning and Community Environment Director, approving Kipling Post LP’s request for
a Major Architectural Review for the development of a mixed-use project on an 11,000 square foot
parcel (“The Project”).
                C.    On March 20, 2017, the City Council approved written findings and conditions
of approval contained in Record of Land Use Action No. 2017-02. Condition of Approval #3 required
the Architectural Review Board (ARB) to conduct minor architectural review, evaluating the following:
a decorative wall design treatment, feature or element, shall be applied to the exterior walls
immediately adjacent to the southern property line (project’s south elevation); landscape details and
plans for all proposed planting, including individual planters, the green wall, and landscaping near the
rooftop elevator; and the exterior building materials, colors and craftsmanship-related detailing
associated with the project.
              D.      On July 13, 2018 the applicant submitted plans in response to Condition of
Approval No. 3.
               E.      On August 16, 2018, the Architectural Review Board reviewed the applicant’s
proposed response to Condition of Approval No. 3 from Record of Land Use Action No. 2107-02, and
directed the applicant to return with clarification about how the west wall design relates to the entire
building. The motion referenced that the design include more detail and layering to better reflect the
architectural design intent resembling a tree-like motif; include construction details that demonstrate
the craftsmanship of the building; and, return with details showing how the landscaping would look
over time.
           F.         The applicant submitted revised plans on August 24, 2018, in response to the
ARBs comments.
             G.     On September 9, 2018, the project was continued to a date certain on
September 20, 2018 to allow the ARB to assemble a quorum.
               H.       On September 20, 2018 the ARB requested that the grey color be lightened and
that samples of the grey color on the various materials be provided. The ARB was also open to beige
colors and warmer colors generally to better integrate the building into the surrounding
neighborhood. The ARB requested that the color scheme be divided between the first two floors and
the top two floors, which would include making the concrete floors/ceiling between levels consistent
with the floor levels; include construction details that demonstrate the craftsmanship of the building;
that additional planters be added to the first and fourth level of the building and to have an actual
green screen on the rear wall and fourth floor area where the vine is proposed; better integrate the
west wall with the building, particularly the top two floors; and, provide a minimum of two high
quality photo renderings: the first rendering from University Avenue, looking towards the west wall;
the second rendering from Kipling Street, showing the Kipling Street and the Lane 30 elevation.
            I.      On September 26, 2018, the applicant provided revised plans in response the
ARBs September 20, 2018 comments.
                 J.     The ARB considered the project on October 4, 2018 and recommended denial
to the Interim Director of Planning and Community Environment. In making this determination, the
Board articulated concerns with the project meeting required architectural review findings,
specifically findings number 2 and 3.
              K.       On October 15, 2108, the applicant refused the Interim Director’s opportunity
to incorporate detailing into the design in an effort to secure a complete project approval.
               L.      On October 16, 218, the Interim Planning and Community Environment Director
issued an approval in part related to the west wall tree-motif design (ROLUA No. 2017-02 Condition of
Approval 3a) and landscaping (ROLUA No. 2017-02 Condition of Approval 3b); and denial in part
relating to the exterior building materials, colors, and craftsmanship-related detailing associated with
the project (ROLUA No. 2017-02 Condition of Approval 3c).
               M.     On October 18, 2108, a timely appeal was filed by Kipling Post, LP (“the
Appellant”) stating that the building materials, colors, and craftsmanship are integral features of the
project; that Planning recommended approval to the ARB at three hearings; and that the City did not
adopt the correct findings as prescribed by the California Housing Accountability Act to deny the
project.
              N.     The City Council reviewed the appeal on December 3, 2018, removed it from
the Consent Calendar, and continued it to be heard at a public hearing on December 17, 2018.
             O.     The City Council reviewed the appeal on December 17, 2018, and duly rejected
the appeal, hereby affirming the decision of the Interim Planning and Community Environment
Director.
             SECTION 2. Environmental Review. The City as the lead agency for the Project has
determined that the project is subject to environmental review under provisions of the California
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) under Guideline section 15070, Decision to Prepare a Negative or
Mitigated Negative Declaration. An initial study was prepared for the project in 2014 and was updated
in August of 2015 and it was determined that, with the implementation of conditions of approval, and
mitigation measures no potentially adverse impacts would result from the development, therefore, the
project would have a less than significant impact on the environment.

               SECTION 3. Architectural Review Findings. Pursuant to Palo Alto Municipal Code Section
18.76.020(d), neither the director, nor the city council on appeal, shall grant architectural review
approval, unless it is found that the project is consistent with certain adopted findings. At the time
that the project application was filed and appealed to Council, the findings presented in this section
were in use, and the Council finds that the project is consistent with them as follows:

Finding #1: The design is consistent with applicable provisions of the Palo Alto Comprehensive Plan,
Zoning Code, coordinated area plans (including compatibility requirements), and any relevant design
guides.

The proposed decorative wall treatment and landscape plan are consistent with this finding in that it is
in general conformance with the Downtown Design Guidelines and the following Comp Plan Goals and
Policies. With respect to the exterior building materials, colors and craftsmanship-related detailing,
however, the project is inconsistent with Comp Plan policies L-1.3 and L-4.7, as detailed below.

          Comp Plan Goals and Policies              How project adheres or does not adhere to Comp
                                                                         Plan

The Comprehensive Plan land use designation for The project proposes landscaping, materials and
the site is Regional/Community Commercial       color board, and decorative wall design treatment
                                                to a previously approved building that is
                                                consistent with the Regional/Community
                                                Commercial designation
                              Land Use and Community Design Element

Goal L-1: A compact and resilient city providing    The project is a compact mixed-use development
residents      and     visitors  with  attractive   along University Avenue. It contributes to an
neighborhoods, work places, shopping districts,     attractive neighborhood through the use of long
public facilities and open spaces.                  lasting materials, landscaping, and a decorative
                                                    design to the interior property line wall.
Policy L-1.3: Infill development in the urban       The decorative wall treatment and landscape plan
service area should be compatible with its          are compatible the project’s surroundings and
surroundings and the overall scale and character    with the overall scale and character of the City in
of the city to ensure a compact, efficient          that they add visual interest to the project, retain
development pattern.                                or replace existing street trees, and otherwise
                                                    represent sustainable principles of design. The
                                                    building exterior is not compatible with its
                                                    surroundings, however, because it fails to
                                                    incorporate detail and craftsmanship in design
                                                  that is similar to the surrounding buildings.
Goal L-2: An enhanced sense of community with The project uses native indigenous landscaping
development designed to foster public life, meet and drip irrigation systems that represent
citywide needs and embrace the principles of sustainable principles of design.
sustainability.
Policy L-4.7: Maintain and enhance the The project consists of a quality designed building
University Avenue/Downtown area as a major by treating the west wall elevation with a pattern
commercial center of the City, with a mix of that breaks up the façade, employs long lasting
commercial, civic, cultural, recreational and materials in the form of concrete, and
residential uses. Promote quality design that strategically places landscaping in key open space
recognizes the regional and historical importance areas of the building. The project fails, however,
of the area and reinforces its pedestrian to apply level of detail found in the surrounding
character.                                        area to other parts of the building exterior, which
                                                  features several large, blank walls.

Finding #2: The project has a unified and coherent design, that:
   a. creates an internal sense of order and desirable environment for occupants, visitors, and the
       general community,
   b. preserves, respects and integrates existing natural features that contribute positively to the
       site and the historic character including historic resources of the area when relevant,
   c. is consistent with the context-based design criteria of the applicable zone district,
   d. provides harmonious transitions in scale, mass and character to adjacent land uses and land
       use designations,
   e. enhances living conditions on the site (if it includes residential uses) and in adjacent
       residential areas.

The proposed decorative wall treatment and landscape plan are consistent with this finding. The
decorative wall treatment provides an aesthetic element that enhances the design and provides an
alternative to a blank wall at the upper floor elevations. The proposed landscaping plan provides color,
softens and integrates well with the building architecture.

With respect to the exterior building materials, colors and craftsmanship-related detailing, however,
the project is inconsistent with Findings 2c and 2d. The project does comply with contextual and
compatibility criteria set forth in the City’s municipal code. Compatibility is achieved when new
construction shares general characteristics and establishes design linkages with the overall pattern of
buildings so that the visual unity of the street is maintained. Existing buildings in the surrounding area
are pedestrian- and human-scaled containing rich architectural details that promote visual interest and
warm colors that create an inviting pedestrian experience. By contrast, the proposed project uses
exterior building materials (concrete) and colors (gray) that results in a design with little to no
architectural detailing and no design linkages that reflect the overall pattern of buildings in the area.
Visual unity is disrupted by the proposed use of building materials, colors and limited detailing and is
not contextually appropriate to the area. More specifically, the project does not comply the context-
based criteria in PAMC sections 18.18.110(b)(1)(B)1; 18.18.110(b)(2)(B)2; 18.18.110(b)(2)(C)3, which
seek to promote pedestrian-oriented design by incorporating covered waiting areas, weather
protection, projecting overhangs, appropriately sized recessed building entrances and other
architectural elements that promote a human scale.

Finding #3: The design is of high aesthetic quality, using high quality, integrated materials and
appropriate construction techniques, and incorporating textures, colors, and other details that are
compatible with and enhance the surrounding area.

The proposed decorative wall treatment uses integrated materials and appropriate construction
techniques. The proposed landscaping plan incorporates drought tolerant species and a variety of
trees, shrubs and perennials suitable to the site.

With respect to the exterior building materials, colors and craftsmanship-related detailing, however,
the project is not consistent with this finding. The proposed textures, colors and craftsmanship are not
compatible with and do not enhance the surrounding area. The surrounding area predominately
consists of buildings that include a warm color palette and architectural detailing that promotes the
pedestrian-oriented environmental along University Avenue. Comparably scaled buildings in the area,
such as 432 and 488 University include warm colors, varied construction materials and detailing that
adds relief and dimension at the first and second levels. Some of these details include Juliet balconies,
faux balustrade screens in front of windows, recessed store fronts, awnings and recessed windows that
enhance the pedestrian-scale and experience. Other nearby, lower-profile buildings similarly employ
planters, decorative lighting, and architectural detailing that enhance the area. The proposed project,
however, uses flat textures and glazing combined with a cool color palate and includes no architectural
details that relate to or enhance the pedestrian environment and results in building that stands in stark
contrast to other improvements in the area. To achieve compliance with this finding based on the
existing, previously approved mass and scale, the applicant could explore using building materials,
colors and craftsmanship-related detailing that adds a depth of dimension and visual relief to enhance
the surrounding area. The use of textured concrete in a warmer color palate combined with other
pedestrian-scale features, such as awnings or sunscreens would be more compatible with the type of
development found along pedestrian-oriented University Avenue.

Finding #4: The design is functional, allowing for ease and safety of pedestrian and bicycle traffic and
providing for elements that support the building’s necessary operations (e.g. convenient vehicle
access to property and utilities, appropriate arrangement and amount of open space and integrated
signage, if applicable, etc.).



1 PAMC 18.18.110(b)(1)(B): On primary pedestrian routes, climate and weather protection where possible, such as covered waiting areas,
  building projections and colonnades, and awnings (Figure 1-2).
2 PAMC 18.18.110(b)(2)(B): Facades that include projecting eaves and overhangs, porches, and other architectural elements that provide
  human scale and help break up building mass (Figure 2-2).
3 PAMC 18.18.110(b)(2)(C): Entries that are clearly defined features of front facades, and that have a scale that is in proportion to the size
  and type of the building and number of units being accessed; larger buildings should have a more prominent building entrance, while
  maintaining a pedestrian scale.
The project is consistent with this finding in that the proposed elements that are being considered in
this application are located in appropriate locations and do not impede the ease or safety of
pedestrians or cyclists and generally support the buildings operations.

Finding #5: The landscape design complements and enhances the building design and its
surroundings, is appropriate to the site’s functions, and utilizes to the extent practical, regional
indigenous drought resistant plant material capable of providing desirable habitat that can be
appropriately maintained.

The project is consistent with the finding because it preserves existing street trees along University
Avenue and replaces trees along Kipling Street. The project’s landscaping includes drought tolerant
species and a variety of trees, shrubs and perennials suitable to the site. The plantings focus on the
most logical locations in the building that consist of open circulation areas, and along areas accessible
to the public, such as along the Lane 30 alley.

Finding #6: The project incorporates design principles that achieve sustainability in areas related to
energy efficiency, water conservation, building materials, landscaping, and site planning.

In accordance with the City’s Green Building Regulations, the building will satisfy the requirements for
CALGreen Mandatory + Tier 2. A summary of the project’s compliance is on sheet GB-1 of the plans.
The project includes a number of measures to preserve water including using drip irrigation and
proposing landscaping that is drought tolerant and is less than 500 square feet in size. The small area
of landscaping and compliance with CALGreen Mandatory + Tier 2will achieve sustainable principles
related to energy efficiency and water conservation.

       SECTION 4. Term of Approval. For the portions of this project that were approved, this
entitlement shall expire at the same time as the previously granted entitlement (ROLUA No. 2017-02).

       SECTION 5. Amendment of Record of Land Use Action 2017-02. Section 7 (Conditions of
Approval) of Record of Land Use Action 2017-02 is hereby amended to amend Condition 12, Expiration
to read as follows:

       “12. EXPIRATION. The project approval shall be valid until December 31, 2019. In the
       event a building permit(s) is not secured for the project within the time limit specified
       above, the Architectural Review approval shall expire and be of no further force or
       effect. The project approval is not eligible for further extension by the Director.”


PASSED:
AYES:
NOES:
ABSENT:
ABSTENTIONS:
ATTEST:




    City Clerk                                   Mayor


APPROVED AS TO CONTENT:


    __________________________________
    Interim Director of Planning and Community Environment


APPROVED AS TO FORM:




    Senior Asst. City Attorney
                                                           CITY OF PALO ALTO                                   i ~ .... f:·...f~f!l
                                                             Office of the City Clerk                        CITY Of PALO ALTO. CA
                                    APPEAL FROM THE DECISION OF DIRECTOR OF PLANNtu Y CLERK'S OFFICE'
                                              AND COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT*
                                                                                                              18 OCT 18 PH 3: 05
     For appeals of final decisions on Architectural Review Board and Home Improvement Exception applications (rendered after public
     hearing), this appeal form shall be completed and submitted by appellant within fourteen days from date of the Director's decision.
     Appeals of final decisions on Individual Review applications (rendered after public hearing) must be submitted within ten days of the
     Director's decision. Complete form, the current fee and a letter stating reasons for the appeal shall be submitted to front desk staff
     of the Planning Division, 5111 floor, City Hall, 250 Hamilton Avenue, except for 980 Fridays when City Hall is closed, when
     these items shall be submitted to Planning staff at the Development Center, 285 Hamilton. Aven1.1e (glass storefront across
     from City Hall on the comer of Bryant and J:lamilton).
     * Director of Planning includes his deSignees, which are Planning Managers or the Chief Planning Official


                        -~ If>- pJ...i.J 00249,
     Appeal Application N0;                                                                Receipt No. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __

     Name of Appellant G4z.+12?>TH lJ 0 IS&,                                               Phone ( ~ --"'8=--l-'
                                                                                                              t../_- _"3
                                                                                                                       :c..::{):....cS=---..;c
                                                                                                                                       "" l_ _
     Address ~ 0 , E?>o .>O ~~ 1         Pe:clo A. ~ 1                                                                                qy~a'2--
                                     Street                                                           City                                      z1P

     LOCATION OF PROPERTY SUBJECT TO APPEAL:                         •.
     Street Address       4Z..'f /.J}Jl l/O(lf(Cf kvB\JLJ6
     Name of Property Owner '(~ other than appellant) ___.k
                                                          ~/_,,.~. . ~
                                                                     . ~.Jl-ll'--"-'
                                                                               \f4~~Pc-'=:0. . .?""--"'-~
                                                                                                    1 ~P---------
     Property Owner's Address       20        1   ~C!')c           L.D     4                f'A4..oM1b                                     'l'IBbL.-
                                                          Street                                      City                                      z1P

     The decision of the Director of Planning and Community Environment dated -~Dem:>=
                                                                                   -=---='2?tl...
                                                                                           ;..:.<..=......xV_,,C. .___                 ,   20   I   g
     whereby the application     IB· ft-N Do ~Y -+-
                                                 K-4-'zf?
                                                       o. . .li
                                                             : ;_._,_M
                                                                     _6
                                                                      ;:;,,,_,,,;_fc_
                                                                                    1::1 c~
                                                                                          . . :. _.::;_
                                                                                                    l-..L,_
                                                                                                        P_        _ _ _ __
                                 (file number)                     (original project applicant)

     was      Def\Jl?j)              , is hereby appealed for the ~~ the attached letter (in duplicate)
             (approved/denied)

     Date:     IO l   ti/ 1~         Signature of AppeUant         '--------£ ( ~

     PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION TO THE CITY COUN'CIL (TO BE FILLED OUT BY STAFF):

     Date _ _ _ _ _ _ __                                  Approved                                    Denied _ __

     Remarks and/or Conditions:


     CITY COUNCIL DECISION (TO BE FILLED OUT BY STAFF):

     Date _ _ _ _ _ _ __                                  Approved                                    Denied _ __

     Remarks and/or Conditions:



     SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS SATISFIED:
     1.          Letter stating reasons for appeal     J;            Received   by:.i. .,q..J~=~·~-=----,,-----­
->   2.          Fee (currenijy $280.00)                \/           Received   by:~
APPEAL FROM THE DECISION OF DIRECTOR OF PLANNING
AND COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT

October 18, 2018


This letter is in support of the appeal of the decision by the Director of Planning and
Community Environment for the project proposed at 429 University Avenue in his letter dated
October 16, 2018 [18-PLN00240].

The project, as presented to the Architectural Review Board Minor Level Review (ARB) at its
three hearings on August 16, September 20, and October 4, 2018, was for minor architectural
review of (a) west wall details, (b) landscape and (c) exterior building materials, colors and
craftsmanship to fulfill conditions of approval stated in the Land Use Approval letter by City
Council dated February 6, 2017. Planning concurred that the plans presented to the ARB are
in conformance with Option 1, which is the project version approved by Council, and
subsequently presented the plans to ARB for review of the three items above.

In his determination letter dated October 16, 2018, Items (a) and (b) above were approved by
the Director of Planning and are not objected to in this appeal. Item (c) was denied although
the exterior building materials, colors and craftsmanship are integral features of this project,
are modeled after buildings at 102 - 116 University Ave, and were what Applicant sought
approval for and granted by Council. Furthermore, Planning, in its many iteration of review,
never objected to the concrete, it being a large component of the Option 1 design approved
by Council. In fact, Item (c) was recommended by Planning for approval to the ARB at all
three hearings and such recommendation for approval is well documented in all three Staff
Reports to ARB by Planning.

This project was panned by the ARB Major Review in each of its past hearings which caused
the project to appear and subsequently be approved by Council. The Minor Level ARB had
similar negative biases against this project. To further complicate the review only three
members were available to hear this project as two of its members were recused for various
reasons. Of the 3 remaining members, Chair Alexander Lew voted to approve and members
Robert Gooyer ("I never liked the project •••. it will go before council anyway") and member
Osma Thompson voted to disapprove.

Ms. Thompson, as a new member of the ARB, had not had the benefit of the lengthy
discussion and review process which ultimately resulted in Council's approval of this building.
The approved building is modern by design. In her comments at the ARB, Ms. Thompson
repeatedly said that the modern style of the building was massive and not compatible with
downtown Palo Alto, even though there are many examples of modern buildings existing next
to traditional styles in the vicinity of the project. Further, massiveness and compatibility of
the project was already approved by Council and not relevant to item (c) above and not the
subject of the ARB review.

Because this project has residential units, the project must be reviewed in the context of
California's Housing Accountability Act (CHAA). (Government Code§ 65589.5.) The purpose of
this statute is to limit the ability of local governments to "reject or make infeasible housing
developments ... without a thorough analysis of the economic, social, and environmental
effects of the action .... "(§ 65589.5. subd. (bl.) Subdivision (j) of the statute provides that
"[w]hen a proposed housing development project complies with applicable, objective general
plan and zoning standards and criteria, including design review standards, in effect at the
time that the housing development project's application is determined to be complete," a
local agency which "proposes to disapprove the project ... shall base its decision regarding
the proposed housing development project upon written findings supported by substantial
evidence on the record that ... [~] (1) [t]he housing development project would have a
specific, adverse impact upon the public health or safety unless the project is disapproved"
and "(2) [t]here is no feasible method to satisfactorily mitigate or avoid the adverse
impact ... other than the disapproval of the housing development project.... "

Residential housing projects, such as that proposed by theApplicant, are expressly included in
the CHAA as a "housing development project." (See Government Code§ 65589.5, subd. (h)(2)
(A)(C).) Applicant's project is intended to include the construction of three residential
housing units in a City with a severe housing shortage. The ARB has not articulated any public
health or safety rationale for disapproval.

Because the residential units are encompassed within the CHAA, and comply with all
objective standards, the burden of proof shifts to the City and ARB to support denial with
specific findings that approval would result in a "specific, adverse impact" on "public health
or safety." The phrase "specific, adverse impact" means a "significant, quantifiable, direct,
and unavoidable impact, based on objective, identified written public health or safety
standards, policies, or conditions as they existed on the date the application was deemed
complete." (Government Code§ 65589.5, subd. (j)(1). (Emphasis added.) No such findings
were made, nor can such findings be made as the City has no objective, identified written
public health or safety standards or policies that would warrant disapproval.


Respectfully submitted,


Kipling Post LP
DocuSign Envelope ID: 930BD357-2B99-4569-91C1-1551728AD75F




                                                    APPROVAL NO. 2017- 2
                              RECORD OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF PALO ALTO LAND USE ACTION FOR
                                 425 AND 429 UNIVERSITY AVENUE: MAJOR ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW
                                                  APPLICATION [14PLN-0022]


                         On February 6, 2017, the City Council of the City of Palo Alto considered an appeal of the
            Planning and Community Environment Director’s decision to approve a Major Architectural Review for the
            development of a four-story, 50-foot tall, 28,547 square-foot, mixed-use project at 429 University Avenue
            and directed staff to return to Council with the following findings, determinations and declarations to
            support their decision to adopt a modified project design:


                       SECTION 1. Background. The City Council of the City of Palo Alto (“City Council”) finds,
        determines, and declares as follows:
                         A.      The project site is comprised of two lots, 425 and 429 University Avenue (APN Nos. 120-15-
        029 and 120-15-028, respectively) of approximately 11,000 square feet. The site contains two commercial
        structures bordered by University Avenue to the southeast, Lane 30 E to the northwest, and Kipling Street to the
        northeast. Single-story businesses border the site to the northeast along Kipling Street, and one and two story
        buildings border the project site along University Avenue.
                         B.   On June 19, 2014, Kipling Post LP applied for a Major Architectural Review for the
        development of a mixed-use project on an 11,000 square foot parcel (“The Project”).
                        C.      On February 25, 2015, the Planning and Community Environment Director approved
        the Major Architectural Review.
                         D.      On March 11, 2015, a timely appeal was filed by Dr. Michael Harbour (“the Appellant”)
        stating concerns related to parking, traffic and circulation concerns and safety issues, impacts to historical
        resources, and the size and massing of the project
                         E.     On May 4, 2015, the City Council remanded the project to the Historic Resource Board
        (HRB) and Architectural Review Board (ARB) for further review and requested project revisions to address
        issues of scale and compatibility. Specifically, the Council requested that the applicant redesign the project and
        return to the HRB and ARB to address a variety of concerns. The HRB was asked to review and comment on the
        historic resource evaluation report as it relates to the project’s potential impact to other historic resources in
        the area; the applicable ‘area of potential affect’ pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA);
        the potential impact of the project’s mass, scale and compatibility to existing historic properties; and whether
        the proposed building would change the setting of the historic properties on Kipling Street or University
        Avenue and have an impact under CEQA. The Council directed the ARB to evaluate the project’s compatibility
        with the immediate environment of the site; neighborhood character; other buildings in the area; consistency
        with the roof lines, entries, setbacks, mass and scale with context based design criteria; shadow patterns;
        vehicular access to the site, including possible impacts to Lane 30 (alley) circulation; and, to provide direction
        on the design linkages with the overall pattern of development in the area. On September 10 and 17, 2015, the
        HRB and ARB, respectively, considered project revisions presented by the applicant. Their respective comments
        are available in the administrative record and meeting minutes. The HRB members expressed concern with
        various aspects of the project, notably related to the mass and scale of the proposed building and expressed
        concerns regarding the project’s compatibility to nearby designed Birge Clark buildings and the Victorian-style
        structures on Kipling Street. The ARB had a variety of comments regarding the project, including expressing
        concerns with project compatibility when viewed from Kipling Street and encouraged further architectural
DocuSign Envelope ID: 930BD357-2B99-4569-91C1-1551728AD75F




        refinement to address other concerns expressed by Council. On November 30, 2015, the City Council remanded
        the project to ARB for further review and consideration as it relates to the following specific Architectural
        Review Findings and Context-Based Design Criteria:
                         PAMC chapter 18.76.020(d):
                              •   (1): Architectural Review Findings in relation to design’s consistency and compatibility
                                  with applicable elements of the Palo Alto Comprehensive Plan
                              •   (2): Architectural Review Findings in relation to design’s compatibility with the
                                  immediate environment of the site
                              •   (4): Architectural Review Findings in relation to design’s compatibility with areas as
                                  having a unified design character or historic character
                              •   (12): Architectural Review Findings in relation to compatibility and appropriateness in
                                  materials, textures, colors, details of construction and plant materials to the project’s
                                  function and to adjacent structures, landscape elements and functions
                              And PAMC Section 18.18.110
                                 (a)(2)(B)(i): Contextual and Compatibility Criteria – Compatibility goal in relation to
                                  siting, scale, massing and materials
                                 (a)(2)(B)(iii): Contextual and Compatibility Criteria – Compatibility goal in relation to
                                  pattern of roof lines and projections
                                 (b)(2)(B): Context-based Design Considerations and Findings – Street building facades
                                  in relation to eaves, overhang, porches and other architectural elements that provide
                                  human scale and help break up building mass
                         F.      On March 17, 2016 the applicant returned to the ARB with a revised project, consisting
        of two options prepared by Topos Architecture. The ARB preferred Option B with recommended changes to
        better reduce building scale and mass, and continued the project to May 19, 2016.
                       G.     On August 4 the applicant returned to the ARB with a revised project prepared by Jo
        Bellomo and Associates, the fourth design professional known to the City to be engaged by the applicant to
        prepare plans and make presentations regarding the project. Based on the administrative record, including
        meeting minutes, the ARB expressed concern that this latest iteration was not responsive to earlier ARB or City
        Council comments and requested staff prepare recommended findings to deny the project.
                         H.      On September 1, 2016, at the applicant’s request, the ARB conducted a study session
        of a project that closely resembled Option 1. While ARB members continued to express concerns, the Board
        commented that this design concept showed progress toward addressing previously stated concerns regarding
        the project’s compatibility to adjacent structures and neighborhood character.
                         I.      The ARB reviewed a project on October 20, 2016 (described as Option 2 in the February 6,
        2017 City Council report). This design included changes that increased the mass of the building at the street corner
        on the third floor and additional mass on the fourth floor that was previously removed from the plans reviewed on
        September 1, 2016. The ARB forwarded a recommendation of denial of the project to the City Council.
                        J.      The Applicant submitted revised plans on October 26, 2016 (described as Option 1 in the
        February 6, 2017 City Council report), which was a refined version of the plans presented at a study session of the
        ARB on September 1, 2016, which addressed many of the Board’s comments.
DocuSign Envelope ID: 930BD357-2B99-4569-91C1-1551728AD75F




                         K.      The Applicant submitted revised plans on December 8, 2016 (described as Option 3 in on
        the February 6, 2017 City Council report), which represented another iteration of the Option 1 design, but included
        concepts previously reviewed by the ARB on August 4, 2016.
                       L.     The City Council reviewed Option 1, Option 2, and Option 3 of the project on February
        6, 2017 and approved Option 1 based on the findings and subject to the conditions of approval included below.


                         SECTION 2. Environmental Review. The City as the lead agency for the Project has determined
        that the project is subject to environmental review under provisions of the California Environmental Quality Act
        (CEQA) under Guideline section 15070, Decision to Prepare a Negative or Mitigated Negative Declaration. An
        initial study was prepared for the project in 2014 and was updated in August of 2015 and it was determined
        that, with the implementation of conditions of approval, and mitigation measures no potentially adverse
        impacts would result from the development, therefore, the project would have a less than significant impact on
        the environment.

                         SECTION 3. Architectural Review Findings. Pursuant to Palo Alto Municipal Code Section
        18.76.020(d), neither the director, nor the city council on appeal, shall grant architectural review approval,
        unless it is found that the project is consistent with certain adopted findings. At the time that the project
        application was filed and appealed to Council, the findings presented in this section were in use, and the Council
        finds that the project is consistent with them as follows:

        Comprehensive Plan and Purpose of ARB:
        Finding #1: The design is consistent and compatible with applicable elements of the Palo Alto Comprehensive
        Plan.
        Finding #16: The design is consistent and compatible with the purpose of architectural review, which is to:
             Promote orderly and harmonious development in the city;
             Enhance the desirability of residence or investment in the city;
             Encourage the attainment of the most desirable use of land and improvements;
             Enhance the desirability of living conditions upon the immediate site or in adjacent areas; and
             Promote visual environments which are of high aesthetic quality and variety and which, at the same
                time, are considerate of each other.

        The project is consistent with Findings #1 and #16 because:

        On balance, the project is consistent and compatible with applicable elements of the Palo Alto Comprehensive
        Plan. The proposed project is in conformance with the following Comprehensive Plan Goals and Policies. The
        project is compatible with the surrounding development based on the building’s size, scale and mass. The
        project reflects a similar massing and rhythm to other properties along University Avenue and includes building
        articulate and setbacks at the third and fourth floors that provide for an appropriate transition, particularly
        along Kipling Street, to the lower profile buildings nearby. Some of the goals and policies the project is in
        compliance with include the following:
              Goal L-1: A well-designed, compact city, providing residents and visitors with attractive neighborhoods,
                 work places, shopping district, public facilities and open spaces.
              Policy L-5: Maintain the scale and character of the City. Avoid land uses that are overwhelming and
                 unacceptable due their size and scale.
              Goal L-4: Inviting, pedestrian-scale centers that offer a variety of retail and commercial services and
DocuSign Envelope ID: 930BD357-2B99-4569-91C1-1551728AD75F




                 provide focal points and community gathering places for the City’s residential neighborhoods and
                 Employment Districts.
                Policy L-20: Encourage street frontages that contribute to retail vitality in all Centers. Reinforce street
                 corners with buildings that come up to the sidewalk or that form corner plazas.
                Policy L-23: Maintain and enhance the University Avenue/Downtown area as the central business
                 district of the City, with a mix of commercial, civic, cultural, recreational and residential uses. Promote
                 quality design that recognizes the regional and historical importance of the area and reinforces its
                 pedestrian character.
                Policy L-24: Ensure that University Avenue/Downtown is pedestrian-friendly and supports bicycle use.
                 Use public art and other amenities to create an environment that is inviting to pedestrians.
                Goal L-6: Well-designed buildings that create coherent development patterns and enhance city streets
                 and public spaces.
                Policy L-48: Promote high quality, creative design and site planning that is compatible with surrounding
                 development and public spaces.
                Policy L-49: Design buildings to revitalize streets and public spaces and to enhance a sense of
                 community and personal safety. Provide an ordered variety of entries, porches, windows, bays and
                 balconies along public ways where it is consistent with neighborhood character; avoid blank or solid
                 walls at street level; and include human-scale details and massing.
                Goal T-3: Facilities, services and programs that encourage and promote walking and bicycling.
                Policy T-21: Support the use of Downtown alleyways for pedestrian- and bicycle-only use.
                Policy T-23: Encourage pedestrian-friendly design features such as sidewalks, street trees, on-site
                 parking, public spaces, gardens, outdoor furniture, art, and interesting architectural details.

        Option 1, as presented to the City Council on February 6, 2017, provides a transition in scale and character along
        University Avenue. The building’s modern design blends and transitions with the surrounding buildings through
        similar materials and horizontal rooflines. The building reinforces the pedestrian character of University Avenue
        as required by Policy L-23 and Policy L-24 because it provides a widened sidewalk for pedestrians with sheltered
        entrances. These same pedestrian features are extended to Kipling Street as well, and the seating area at the
        rear of the building activates a pedestrian space in the alley. Conditions of Approval Nos. 2b, 2c, 2d, and 2e all
        reduce the massing and visual prominence of the building along Kipling Street, creating the appearance of a
        three-story structure. This design provides a smoother transition from the single and two-story structures along
        Kipling Street.

        The proposed project incorporates similar pedestrian and human friendly features found in other buildings along
        University Avenue. The first floor plate height reflects the plate height of the buildings to the west along
        University Avenue. The surrounding buildings contain sidewalk dining areas, recessed entries, and are
        predominantly two-story structures, with a low first floor plate height to relate to a human and pedestrian scale.
        The project incorporates similar features with designated pedestrian areas at the entryways and natural building
        overhangs along University Avenue and Kipling Street. These design features create a project that is pedestrian
        friendly and designed at a human scale on elevations fronting rights-of-way. Condition of Approval No. 2e
        requires that the elevator tower height not exceed 54.5 feet and Condition of Approval No. 2b requires the
        fourth floor guardrails to be setback from the edge of the terrace along all streetscapes. These conditions reduce
        the visual prominence of the structure along Kipling Street, and they create the appearance of a three story
        building. The appearance of a three-story building helps the project achieve an orderly and harmonious design
        along Kipling Street, which has lower profile buildings.

        Compatibility and Character:
DocuSign Envelope ID: 930BD357-2B99-4569-91C1-1551728AD75F




        Finding #2: The design is compatible with the immediate environment of the site.
        Finding #4: This finding of compatibility with unified or historic character is not applicable to the project (there is
        no unified design or historic character).
        Finding #5: The design promotes harmonious transitions in scale and character in areas between different
        designated land uses.
        Finding #6: The design is compatible with approved improvements both on and off the site.

        The project is consistent with Findings #2, #4, #5 and #6 because:
        The project is compatible with the immediate environment of the site. Buildings located to the southwest of the
        site along University Avenue consist of two-story buildings. The first two floors of the project are consistent with
        the height of these buildings, while the third floor is setback approximately eight-feet. The fourth floor is setback
        approximately 40-feet. These features result in a gradual transition in scale thereby increasing the compatibility
        and character of the project with its immediate environment. Further, the design obscures the fourth floor from
        views along University Avenue. The setbacks along Kipling Street and Lane 30 also promote a design that is
        compatible with the immediate environment of the site and offer harmonious transitions. The setbacks on the
        fourth floor along Kipling Street obscure views of the building features above the third floor from many vantage
        points, thereby reducing the building scale and improving compatibility with smaller structures nearby. To
        accomplish this result, the conditions of approval require that the elevator tower height be reduced to a
        maximum of 54.5 feet and the elevator shaft is setback 11 feet from Kipling Street, while the stairs and office are
        setback approximately 20 feet and 37 feet, respectively. This condition and these design features will obscure
        views of the fourth floor and result in a building with a three-story appearance from vantage points that are
        close to the site on Kipling Street. This results in a harmonious transition from the two story structures along
        Kipling Street to the proposed project because it effectively only increases the height of the project by one story
        from the structure at the corner of Kipling and University and two stories from the business at Kipling Street and
        Lane 30.

        Conditions of approval for the project also ensure that the design of the building will be compatible with the
        immediate environment of the site. Conditions No. 3b and 3c require that the applicant return to the ARB for
        approval of the materials, colors, craftsmanship and landscaping, and Condition No. 3a requires a decorative
        wall treatment, feature or element along the southern elevation of the building. These requirements will ensure
        that design features are compatible with the immediate environment of the site.

        The design of the building offers a harmoniously compatible transition with the design character of the
        streetscape along University Avenue. The design of the project transitions from the mid-century designs found
        along University Avenue to a more modern looking building that defines the street corner. The project consists
        of rectilinear features in a glass and concrete style building. These features are consistent with the character of
        the surrounding buildings to the east of the site along University Avenue and the building located at the corner
        of Kipling Street and University Avenue.

        The Historic Resources Memorandum notes that the historic character of the area has been compromised by
        intrusions including incompatible materials, height, massing and architectural features. features. Because the
        area has not been recognized as having a unified design or historic character, this finding is not applicable.

        Functionality and Open Space:
        Finding #3: The design is appropriate to the function of the project.
        Finding #7: The planning and siting of the building on the site creates an internal sense of order and provides a
        desirable environment for occupants, visitors and the general community.
        Finding #8: The amount and arrangement of open space are appropriate to the design and the function of the
DocuSign Envelope ID: 930BD357-2B99-4569-91C1-1551728AD75F




        structures.

        The project is consistent with Findings #3, #7, and #8 because:

        The design and arrangement of the open space is appropriate for the function of the project. The project
        proposes a seating area off the alley at the back of the project. The Comprehensive Plan encourages these
        spaces such as these to activate alley spaces for pedestrian use. Further, the project incorporates terraced areas
        around the third floor for the residential users and on the fourth floor for the office use. These areas serve as a
        functional open space for residents and tenants of the project and are easily accessible to the building users.
        Therefore, the design, amount, arrangement and planning of open space is appropriate and creates a sense of
        order for the project.

        The planning and siting of the building on the site creates a sense of order and provides a desirable environment
        for visitors, occupants and the general community. The siting of the building is located along the back of the
        sidewalk, consistent with other buildings along University Avenue streetscape and forms an edge along Kipling
        Street consistent with the existing buildings along both streets. Vehicle access to the building from the alley
        provides convenient and safe accessibility that minimizes vehicle interactions along Kipling Street and University
        Avenue. Internally, stairs and elevators provide access to each floor, and these are conveniently reached from
        the street or the subterranean parking. The floorplans create individualized floors that separates the residents
        and commercial and office tenants. Occupants, visitors and the community are provided with a desirable
        environment because of this ease of access to the individualized uses on each floor. Therefore, the siting and
        floor plan create a sense of order and provide a desirable environment for occupants, visitors and the general
        public.

        Circulation and Traffic:
        Finding #9: Sufficient ancillary functions are provided to support the main functions of the project and the same
        are compatible with the project’s design concept.
        Finding #10: Access to the property and circulation thereon are safe and convenient for pedestrians, cyclists and
        vehicles.

        The project is consistent with Findings #9 and #10 because:

        The project contains sufficient ancillary functions to support the main functions. Access to the property and
        circulation thereon is convenient for cyclists because it provides long-term and short-term bicycle parking. The
        short term parking is easily accessible from the street and the long term parking is located in the garage where it
        is screened from public view.

        Access to the property and circulation thereon are safe and convenient for all users. The alley provides a
        dedicated, separate access point to the project from the street. This will minimize vehicle interactions with other
        vehicles as well as pedestrians and cyclists. Further, the traffic study has determined that there is adequate site
        distance for exiting the alley onto Kipling Street. The project will incorporate mirrored installations at the
        parking garage ingress and egress to improve visibility and reduce conflicts between vehicles and pedestrians
        and cyclists. The onsite circulation was reviewed in accordance with generally accepted traffic engineering
        standards. Generally, the proposed plan would provide one main drive aisle that would lead to an underground
        parking structure. Parking is shown at 90 degrees to the main drive aisle. This drive aisle makes several 90
        degree turns to spiral down to the farthest parking spaces. The City parking facility design standards specify a
        minimum width of 16 feet for two-way underground ramps; 25 feet for two-way drive aisles lined with 8.5 foot
        wide, 90 degree spaces; and maximum slope of 2% adjacent to accessible parking spaces. The proposed project
DocuSign Envelope ID: 930BD357-2B99-4569-91C1-1551728AD75F




        meets these standards. Further, the project was also found to meet the applicable parking requirements of the
        PAMC. Therefore, these features ensure access and circulation thereon are safe and convenient for all users.

        The project is subject to the loading area requirements in the City’s Zoning Code because it is a mixed-use
        project with commercial, office and residential uses. Consistent with past practice, the staff has recommended
        approval of an off-site loading area near the building rather than on the project site itself. There is a loading
        zone at Kipling Street and the alley provides sufficient loading space for the project and service alleys
        throughout downtown have historically been used for the purpose of shared loading and access. Using the alley
        is consistent with prior projects reviewed by the City and with previous iterations of the project design, and
        meets the intent of the City’s Code requirement.

        Landscaping and Plant Materials:
        Finding #11: Natural features are appropriately preserved and integrated with the project.
        Finding #12: The materials, textures and colors and details of construction and plant material are an appropriate
        expression to the design and function and compatible with the adjacent and neighboring structures, landscape
        elements and functions.
        Finding #13: The landscape design concept for the site, as shown by the relationship of plant masses, open
        space, scale, plant forms and foliage textures and colors create a desirable and functional environment on the
        site and the landscape concept depicts an appropriate unit with the various buildings on the site.
        Finding #14: Plant material is suitable and adaptable to the site, capable of being properly maintained on the
        site, and is of a variety that would tend to be drought-resistant and to reduce consumption of water in its
        installation and maintenance.

        The project is consistent with Findings #11- #14 because:

        The project will preserve existing street trees along University Avenue and will replace two perimeter trees
        along Kipling Street with ginkgo biloba. Two other street trees along Kipling Street will be retained. The project
        proposes appropriate, drought tolerant, sustainable landscaping in key open space areas that will complement
        and enhance the design of these spaces. The landscaping will form a soft edge and perimeter around the ground
        floor and terrace area on the third floor. Further, as conditioned, the project is required to return to the
        Architectural Review Board for review and recommendation to the Director of Planning and Community
        Environment for landscape details and plans for all proposed planting, including individual planters, the
        greenwall, and landscaping near the rooftop elevator. Therefore, the landscape design is appropriate and
        compatible for the project.

        The proposed project is consistent with the above finding because it corporates materials, textures, colors and
        details that are compatible with adjacent structures and functions. Adjacent structures employ brick, stucco and
        glass windows with a rough texture and organic colors. The proposed structure consists of concrete, glass
        windows, and metal mesh screens. These features compliment the adjacent buildings and the third and fourth
        floor consist of a similarly colored concrete as nearby buildings. Further, as conditioned, the project is required
        to return to the Architectural Review Board for review and recommendation to the Director of Planning and
        Community Environment of exterior building materials, colors and craftsmanship-related detailing associated
        with the project. Therefore, the project is compatible with the materials, colors and textures of adjacent
        buildings.

        Sustainability:
        Finding #15: The design is energy efficient and incorporates renewable energy design elements including, but
        not limited to:
DocuSign Envelope ID: 930BD357-2B99-4569-91C1-1551728AD75F




                Careful building orientation to optimize daylight to interiors
                High performance, low-emissivity glazing
                Cool roof and roof insulation beyond Code minimum
                Solar ready roof
                Use of energy efficient LED lighting
                Low-flow plumbing and shower fixtures
                Below grade parking to allow for increased landscape and stormwater treatment areas

        The project is consistent with Finding #15 because:

        In accordance with the City’s Green Building Regulations, the building will satisfy the requirements for CALGreen
        Mandatory + Tier 2.

                         SECTION 4. Architectural Review Findings. Revised Architectural Review Findings were adopted by
        ordinance of the City Council on November 14, 2016 (second reading December 12, 2016) and became effective on
        January 12, 2017. The Council finds that the project as modified is consistent with these findings and the Context-
        Based Design Criteria in PAMC 18.18.110 as follows:

        Finding #1: The design is consistent with applicable provisions of the Palo Alto Comprehensive Plan, Zoning
        Code, coordinated area plans (including compatibility requirements), and any relevant design guides.

        The proposed project, as modified by the conditions of approval, is generally consistent with the Palo Alto
        Comprehensive Plan, including the following goals and policies:
             Goal L-1: A well-designed, compact city, providing residents and visitors with attractive neighborhoods,
               work places, shopping district, public facilities and open spaces.
             Policy L-5: Maintain the scale and character of the City. Avoid land uses that are overwhelming and
               unacceptable due their size and scale.
             Goal L-4: Inviting, pedestrian-scale centers that offer a variety of retail and commercial services and
               provide focal points and community gathering places for the City’s residential neighborhoods and
               Employment Districts.
             Policy L-20: Encourage street frontages that contribute to retail vitality in all Centers. Reinforce street
               corners with buildings that come up to the sidewalk or that form corner plazas.
             Policy L-23: Maintain and enhance the University Avenue/Downtown area as the central business
               district of the City, with a mix of commercial, civic, cultural, recreational and residential uses. Promote
               quality design that recognizes the regional and historical importance of the area and reinforces its
               pedestrian character.
             Policy L-24: Ensure that University Avenue/Downtown is pedestrian-friendly and supports bicycle use.
               Use public art and other amenities to create an environment that is inviting to pedestrians.
             Goal L-6: Well-designed buildings that create coherent development patterns and enhance city streets
               and public spaces.
             Policy L-48: Promote high quality, creative design and site planning that is compatible with surrounding
               development and public spaces.
             Policy L-49: Design buildings to revitalize streets and public spaces and to enhance a sense of
               community and personal safety. Provide an ordered variety of entries, porches, windows, bays and
               balconies along public ways where it is consistent with neighborhood character; avoid blank or solid
               walls at street level; and include human-scale details and massing.
             Goal T-3: Facilities, services and programs that encourage and promote walking and bicycling.
DocuSign Envelope ID: 930BD357-2B99-4569-91C1-1551728AD75F




                Policy T-21: Support the use of Downtown alleyways for pedestrian- and bicycle-only use.
                Policy T-23: Encourage pedestrian-friendly design features such as sidewalks, street trees, on-site
                 parking, public spaces, gardens, outdoor furniture, art, and interesting architectural details.

        More specifically, the project is consistent with Policy L-5, which seeks to maintain the scale and character of the
        City. Avoid land uses that are overwhelming and unacceptable due their size and scale. As conditioned, the
        approved project reduces the scale and visual prominence of the building along University Avenue and Kipling
        Street, creating the appearance of a three-story structure. This design provides a smoother transition from the
        single and two-story structures along University Avenue and Kipling Street, thereby maintaining the scale of the
        blocks. The building’s modern design blends and transitions with the surrounding buildings and other buildings
        in the City through use of similar materials, design features, massing, and character.

        The project is further consistent with Goals L-4 and Policies L-20, L-23 and L-24 and L-49, in that the project
        provides ground floor commercial space at a prominent intersection that serves as a focal point for a variety of
        retail uses that could occupy the space. The rhythmic position of the doors along University Avenue and Kipling
        Street also enhance retail vitality of the streets by locating retail uses immediately adjacent to the sidewalk and
        reflects the pattern of development along University Avenue. The project is consistent with Policy L-23 as it
        provides a mixture of commercial, office and residential uses comprised in a quality designed building. The
        project is consistent with Policies L-24, L-49, T-21 and T-23 because it provides a widened sidewalk for
        pedestrians with sheltered entrances. These same pedestrian features are extended to Kipling Street as well,
        and the seating area at the rear of the building activates a pedestrian space in the alley. The project is consistent
        with Goal L-6 and Policies L-48 and L-49 because the project is well designed, creates a coherent development
        pattern, is of high quality, and creative design that is compatible with surrounding development. Conditions of
        Approval Nos. 2b, 2c, 2d, 3b, 3c ensure that materials, landscaping and colors will be of high quality; reduce the
        massing and scale of the building to make it compatible with the surrounding buildings by limiting the elevator
        tower height, removing the library from the third floor, and reducing the projection of the eyebrow on the
        building; and setting back the guardrails and planters on the fourth floor to further reduce the massing and scale
        and enhance the buildings compatibility with the surrounding environment.

        The project has also been reviewed to the objective development standards in the zoning code and found to be
        in compliance with the intent and regulations contained therein. A comprehensive review of the project to
        applicable development standards is included in the administrative record.

        The project is consistent with the Downtown Urban Design plan. The project is located in the Commercial Core
        and more specifically the University Avenue District. The Urban Design plan notes that the alley from Kipling
        Street is designated for opportunities for pedestrian friendly use. The project satisfies this design requirement
        by providing a courtyard area with tables for pedestrians to use at the rear of the project site. The alley façade
        also incorporates a green wall which provides a sense of life to the alleyway. Other relevant goals in the plan
        include reinforcing University Avenue as the retail core by maintaining ground floor retail space, develop and
        enhance the qualities of University Avenue which make it an exciting outdoor and pedestrian environment with
        eclectic architecture, outdoor food, and entertainment and public amenities. The project maintains commercial
        uses along University Avenue by designating the ground floor area of the building for commercial spaces. The
        design of the project generates interests on the side streets. The clear glass windows allow pedestrians to see
        through the corner of the building which strengthens the pedestrian experience. The project provides
        pedestrian spaces through the recessed entries and widened sidewalk. The building is designed with attention to
        all facades. Kipling Street and University Avenue have the same attention to detail as the alley and southern
        elevation. The attention to detail in the alley is exhibited through the use of a green wall planter. Further, as
        conditioned, the southern elevation is required to incorporate a decorative wall treatment, feature or element.
DocuSign Envelope ID: 930BD357-2B99-4569-91C1-1551728AD75F




        Therefore, the project is conditioned and incorporates attention to detail on each façade. The ground floor of
        the project is primarily comprised of glass which is consistent with the plan’s requirement for ground floor
        treatments that allow for easier pedestrian views of displays and merchandise.

        Further, the project is located in the Kipling Street secondary district. The plan calls for Kipling Street between
        Lytton and University Avenue to retain older single family structures and the architectural character they
        provide. The project is not subject to this requirement because it does not propose to convert a single-family
        structure, and therefore its architecture, on Kipling Street. The project would convert commercial structures.
        The plan also calls for the terminus of Kipling Street and University Avenue to be enhanced through tie-ins to the
        Varsity Theater. The project would tie-in to the Varsity Theater by providing a structure that is of similar height
        and massing, located at the street front.

        The project is not subject to any coordinated area plans.

        Finding #2: The project has a unified and coherent design, that:
            a. creates an internal sense of order and desirable environment for occupants, visitors, and the general
                community,
            b. preserves, respects and integrates existing natural features that contribute positively to the site and
                the historic character including historic resources of the area when relevant,
            c. is consistent with the context-based design criteria of the applicable zone district,
            d. provides harmonious transitions in scale, mass and character to adjacent land uses and land use
                designations,
            e. enhances living conditions on the site (if it includes residential uses) and in adjacent residential areas.

        The project is consistent with Finding #2 because:

        The project has a unified and coherent design and creates an internal sense of order in that each use of the
        building is separated onto a specific floor. Each use also has access to own open space and the floor plans
        facilitate the proposed uses through appropriate layouts and configurations of the internal spaces. Internal
        spaces are provided with direct access and circulation routes and amenities like kitchen spaces for the
        commercial and office uses.

        The project is designed to preserve, respect and integrate natural features. Natural features for this project
        consist of street trees along University Avenue and Kipling Street. The project site will preserve the existing
        street trees along University Avenue and will replace the ginkgo biloba trees along Kipling Street with new
        gingko biloba trees. The building respect the street trees by maintain setbacks from the vegetation and
        Condition of Approval No. 3b ensures that vegetation from the project will integrate with the street trees.
        Because the area has not been recognized as having a unified design or historic character, the finding for historic
        character is not applicable Therefore, the project will preserve, respect and integrate natural features that
        contribute positively to the site.
        The project is consistent with the context-based design criteria for the applicable zone district:

        The design and architecture of the proposed project has been reviewed with respect to the Context-Based
        Design Criteria set forth in PAM 18.18.110. Section 18.18.110 notes that the project shall be:
             Responsible to its context and compatible with adjacent development, and shall promote the
                establishment of pedestrian oriented design (where “responsible to context” is not a desire to replicate
                surroundings, but provide appropriate transitions to surroundings), and
DocuSign Envelope ID: 930BD357-2B99-4569-91C1-1551728AD75F




                Compatible with adjacent development, when apparent scale and mass is consistent with the pattern of
                 achieving a pedestrian oriented design and when new construction shares general characteristics and
                 establishes design linkages with the overall pattern of buildings so the visual unit of the street is
                 maintained.

        Pursuant to PAMC 18.18.110(b), the following additional findings have been made in the affirmative:
        (1) Pedestrian and Bicycle Environment: The design of new projects shall promote pedestrian walkability, a
            bicycle friendly environment, and connectivity through design elements. This finding can be made in the
            affirmative in that the project supports widen sidewalk with recessed entries on primary pedestrian routes,
            at-grade bicycle racks near the building entrances, secured bicycle facility at ground level and within the
            underground parking garage.

        (2) Street Building Facades. Street facades shall be designed to provide a strong relationship with the sidewalk
            and the street(s), to create an environment that supports and encourages pedestrian activity through design
            elements. This finding can be made in the affirmative in that the proposed street facades are designed to
            create an environment that supports and encourages pedestrian activity. The building façade facing
            University Avenue preserves the existing storefront pattern with distinguish architectural elements to break
            up building mass. Entries are clearly defined and have a scale that is in proportion to the building functions.
            Elements that signal habitation such as entrances, stairs, and balconies are visible to people on the street.
            Proposed placement and orientation of doorways, windows and landscape elements are appropriate to
            create strong and direct relationships with the streets. Upper floors are setback, width of overhang is
            reduced and elevator shaft is oriented inward to reduce building mass and to fit in with the context of the
            neighborhood;

        (3) Massing and Setbacks. Buildings shall be designed to minimize massing and conform to proper setbacks.
            This finding can be made in the affirmative in that the project incorporates design with a series of recessed
            terraces and interchange in materials to break down the scale of building and provide visual interest.
            Variation in massing and materials create a façade with two distinctive frontages, which respect the existing
            storefront patterns and rhythms on University Avenue. Proposed design incorporates columns framework
            and tall display windows to reinforce the street corner. With the intent to minimize massing and ensure
            greater setback, proposed design has reduced the height of stairway tower and setback roofline for upper
            floor terrace at the corner of Lane 30 and Kipling Street;

        (4) Low-Density Residential Transitions. Where new projects are built abutting existing lower scale residential
            development, care shall be taken to respect the scale and privacy of neighboring properties. Although the
            parcels abutting the project site along Kipling Street have a commercial zoning designation, most of the built
            forms have a low density residential appearance. While the height is taller than most of the buildings in the
            neighborhood, the proposed building height of 50 feet is compliant with the height limit in the Downtown
            Commercial District. Proposed design includes at least a 10 feet setback with open terraces at the second
            and third floors to reduce the impact of the building height on to adjacent lower density neighborhood.
            Potential privacy concern is at a less than significant level as the buildings behind the project site are mostly
            one-story with commercial/office uses and mature trees along Kipling Street would provide some degree of
            screening. Proposed design includes storefront glass on both frontages to introduce a daylight source on the
            ground level.

        (5) Project Open Space. Private and public open space shall be provided so that it is usable for residents, visitors,
            and/or employees of the site. This finding can be made in the affirmative in that the project provides open
DocuSign Envelope ID: 930BD357-2B99-4569-91C1-1551728AD75F




             space with wider sidewalks, balconies, and a roof-top terrace. The balconies are accessible by residents on
             the site and are located on four sides of the building that encourage ‘eyes on the street’. Proposed roof-top
             terrace is for office tenants and would provide ample solar exposure;

        (6) Parking Design. Parking needs shall be accommodated but shall not be allowed to overwhelm the character
            of the project or detract from the pedestrian environment. This finding can be made in the affirmative in that
            the project’s parking is located within the below-grade garage and does not detract from pedestrian
            environment. The project includes a well-integrated garage entry, four feet setback, and mirrors that aid
            traffic and improve visibility on Lane 30. In addition, the project incorporates landscaping element to soften
            the exit of Lane 30. The intent is to enhance the character of pedestrian environment, while maintaining
            traffic visibility with low profile plant materials;

        (7) Large (Multi-Acre) Sites. Large sites (over one acre) shall be designed so that street, block, and building
            patterns are consistent with those of the surrounding neighborhood. This finding does not apply;

        (8) Sustainability and Green Building Design. Project design and materials to achieve sustainability and green
            building design should be incorporated into the project. This finding can be made in the affirmative in that
            the project would comply with the City’s green building ordinance, and the design includes overhangs,
            recesses, and other shading devices and techniques to reduce the solar heat gain and energy consumption
            related to the cooling of the building. Design is easy for pedestrian, bicycle and transit access. The project
            incorporates high efficiency LED light fixtures, low-flow plumbing fixtures and high efficiency HVAC
            equipment for efficiency energy and water use. Green building features will be incorporated to achieve
            CalGreen Tier 2 standards for the commercial portion and Green Point rated standards for the residential
            portion.

        Condition of Approval No. 2e requires that the elevator tower height not exceed 54.5 feet and Condition of
        Approval No. 2b requires the fourth floor guard rails to be setback from the edge of the terrace along all
        streetscapes. These conditions reduce the visual prominence of the structure along Kipling Street, and they
        create the appearance of a three story building. Along Kipling Street and University Avenue, the project would
        constitute a one to two-story increase in height from the adjacent structures. Additionally, the second and third
        floors are setback 10-feet from the alley way, and the third floor is setback approximately seven-feet off of
        Kipling Street and University Avenue. Condition Nos. 2c and 2d requires the library to be removed from the third
        floor at the intersection of Kipling Street and University Avenue and for the third floor roofline to follow the
        fourth floor plan, which further reduces the mass and scale of the building. These conditions and design feature
        help the project achieve a harmonious transition in scale and mass between adjacent land uses along Kipling
        Street and University Avenue.

        Further, the project is consistent with Finding #2 because it enhances the living conditions on the site by
        providing residential units in downtown. The project enhances the adjacent residential areas because it provides
        space for employment and commerce that residences can access easily from surrounding areas.

        Finding #3: The design is of high aesthetic quality, using high quality, integrated materials and appropriate
        construction techniques, and incorporating textures, colors, and other details that are compatible with and
        enhance the surrounding area.
DocuSign Envelope ID: 930BD357-2B99-4569-91C1-1551728AD75F




        The project is consistent with Finding #3 because:

        The project has a high aesthetic quality, materials, construction techniques, textures, colors and other details
        that are compatible with and enhance the surrounding area. The buildings surrounding the site are comprised of
        concrete, stone, glass, brick, and metal and range in height from two to four stories along University Avenue.
        Along Kipling Street, buildings consist of cement, stucco, glass and brick structures. The proposed structure is
        comprised of high quality glass, concrete and steel design which is similar and representative of the materials
        found in the surrounding environment. Further, the materials, textures, and attention to detail in the structure
        is consistent throughout each elevation which represents a high quality aesthetic design. Lastly, the project, will
        have high quality materials, textures, colors and finishes because it is conditioned to return to the Architectural
        Review Board for review and recommendation to the Director of Planning and Community Environment of
        exterior building materials, colors and craftsmanship-related detailing associated with the project. Therefore,
        the project is consistent with Finding #3 because it consists of a high quality aesthetic design with integrated
        materials, textures, colors and other details that are compatible with the surrounding environment.

        Finding #4: The design is functional, allowing for ease and safety of pedestrian and bicycle traffic and
        providing for elements that support the building’s necessary operations (e.g. convenient vehicle access to
        property and utilities, appropriate arrangement and amount of open space and integrated signage, if
        applicable, etc.).

        The project is consistent with Finding #4 because:

        Access to the property and circulation thereon are safe and convenient for all users. The alley provides a
        dedicated, separate access point to the project from the street. This will minimize vehicle interactions with other
        vehicles as well as pedestrians and cyclists. Further, the traffic study has determined that there is adequate site
        distance for exiting the alley onto Kipling Street. The project will incorporate mirrored installations at the
        parking garage ingress and egress to improve visibility and reduce conflicts between vehicles and pedestrians
        and cyclists. The onsite circulation was reviewed in accordance with generally accepted traffic engineering
        standards. Generally, the proposed plan would provide one main drive aisle that would lead to an underground
        parking structure. Parking is shown at 90 degrees to the main drive aisle. This drive aisle makes several 90
        degree turns to spiral down to the farthest parking spaces. The City parking facility design standards specify a
        minimum width of 16 feet for two-way underground ramps; 25 feet for two-way drive aisles lined with 8.5 foot
        wide, 90 degree spaces; and maximum slope of 2% adjacent to accessible parking spaces. The proposed project
        meets these standards. Further, the project was also found to meet the applicable parking requirements of the
        PAMC. Therefore, these features ensure access and circulation thereon are safe and convenient for all users.

        Finding #5: The landscape design complements and enhances the building design and its surroundings, is
        appropriate to the site’s functions, and utilizes to the extent practical, regional indigenous drought resistant
        plant material capable of providing desirable habitat that can be appropriately maintained.

        The project is consistent with Finding #5 because:

        The project will preserve existing street trees along University Avenue and will replace two perimeter trees
        along Kipling Street with ginkgo biloba. Two other street trees along Kipling Street will be retained. The project
        proposes appropriate, drought tolerant, sustainable landscaping in key open space areas that will complement
        and enhance the design of these spaces. The landscaping will form a soft edge and perimeter around the ground
        floor and terrace area on the third floor. Further, as conditioned, the project is required to return to the
        Architectural Review Board for review and recommendation to the Director of Planning and Community
DocuSign Envelope ID: 930BD357-2B99-4569-91C1-1551728AD75F




        Environment for landscape details and plans for all proposed planting, including individual planters, the
        greenwall, and landscaping near the rooftop elevator. Therefore, the landscape design is appropriate and
        compatible for the project.

        Finding #6: The project incorporates design principles that achieve sustainability in areas related to energy
        efficiency, water conservation, building materials, landscaping, and site planning.

        The project is consistent with Finding #6 because:

        In accordance with the City’s Green Building Regulations, the building will satisfy the requirements for CALGreen
        Mandatory + Tier 2.

                       SECTION 7. Conditions of Approval. The following conditions of approval shall be implemented as
         part of the modified project approved by this Record of Land Use Action. Condition numbers 2 and 3 are those
         specifically adopted by the City Council to ensure that the modified project is consistent with all applicable
         findings.

        Planning Division
        1.      SUBSTANTIAL CONFORMANCE. The plans submitted for a Building Permit shall be in substantial
                conformance with plans received on October 26, 2016, hereby labeled as Option 1, containing 24 pages,
                except as modified to incorporate the following conditions of approval.

        2.       BUILDING PERMIT PLAN SET. A copy of this cover letter and conditions of approval, including Exhibit A
                 (MMRP), shall be printed on the second page of the plans submitted for building permit. Project plans
                 submitted for Building permits shall incorporate the following changes, to the satisfaction of the
                 Director of Planning and Community Environment:

                     a. Applicant shall submit detailed plans that demonstrate compliance with floor area and other
                        applicable development standards.

                     b. The fourth floor guardrails and planters shall be set back a minimum of five feet from the edge
                        of the third floor roofline (all elevations), as modified by these conditions.

                     c. The ‘library’ shown on the third floor, floor plans, at the street corner, shall be removed.

                     d. The third floor roofline above the removed ‘library’ area shall be removed, except to allow a
                        three-foot overhang.

                     e. The elevator adjacent to Kipling Street, inclusive of any associated mechanical equipment, shall
                        not exceed fifty-four and one-half feet (54.5') in height.

        3.       BOARD LEVEL ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW: Prior to the issuance of building permits, the applicant shall
                 return to the ARB for approval of the following items, to the satisfaction of the Director of Planning and
                 Community Environment:

                     a. A decorative wall design treatment, feature or element, shall be applied to the exterior walls
                        immediately adjacent to the southern property line (project’s south elevation) starting at an
DocuSign Envelope ID: 930BD357-2B99-4569-91C1-1551728AD75F




                         elevation equivalent to the building height of the adjacent structure and extending to the
                         roofline of the proposed building.

                     b. Landscape details and plans for all proposed planting, including individual planters, the
                        greenwall, and landscaping near the rooftop elevator.

                     c. The exterior building materials, colors and craftsmanship-related detailing associated with the
                        project.

        4.       Prior to issuance of a building permit, the project applicant shall demonstrate how interior and exterior
                 lighting sources will be reduced after operating hours or when the use of the facility is reduced. This
                 may require the use of timing devices for exterior and interior lights in order to minimize light glare at
                 night without jeopardizing security of employees/residents.


        5.      PROJECT MODIFICATIONS: All modifications to the approved project shall be submitted for review and
                approval prior to construction. If during the Building Permit review and construction phase, the project
                is modified by the applicant, it is the responsibility of the applicant to contact the Planning
                Division/project planner directly to obtain approval of the project modification. It is the applicant’s
                responsibility to highlight any proposed changes to the project and to bring it to the project planner’s
                attention.

        6.       DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES: Estimated Development Impact Fees in the amount of $312,634.85 plus
                 the applicable public art fee, per PAMC 16.61.040, shall be paid prior to the issuance of the related
                 building permit.

        7.       REQUIRED PUBLIC ART. In conformance with Ordinance No. 5226, and to the satisfaction of the Public
                 Art Commission, the property owner and/or applicant shall select an artist and received final approval of
                 the art plan , or pay the in-lieu fee equivalent to 1% of the estimated construction valuation, prior to
                 issuance of a Building permit. All required artwork shall be installed as approved by the Public Art
                 Commission and verified by Public Art staff prior to release of the final Use and Occupancy permit. The
                 Public Art requirements Application information and documents can be found at
                 www.cityofpaloalto.org/publicart under the “policies and documents” tab.

        8.       IMPACT FEE 90-DAY PROTEST PERIOD. California Government Code Section 66020 provides that a
                 project applicant who desires to protest the fees, dedications, reservations, or other exactions imposed
                 on a development project must initiate the protest at the time the development project is approved or
                 conditionally approved or within ninety (90) days after the date that fees, dedications, reservations or
                 exactions are imposed on the Project. Additionally, procedural requirements for protesting these
                 development fees, dedications, reservations and exactions are set forth in Government Code Section
                 66020. IF YOU FAIL TO INITIATE A PROTEST WITHIN THE 90-DAY PERIOD OR FOLLOW THE PROTEST
                 PROCEDURES DESCRIBED IN GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 66020, YOU WILL BE BARRED FROM
                 CHALLENGING THE VALIDITY OR REASONABLENESS OF THE FEES, DEDICATIONS, RESERVATIONS, AND
                 EXACTIONS. If these requirements constitute fees, taxes, assessments, dedications, reservations, or
                 other exactions as specified in Government Code Sections 66020(a) or 66021, this is to provide
                 notification that, as of the date of this notice, the 90-day period has begun in which you may protest
                 these requirements.
DocuSign Envelope ID: 930BD357-2B99-4569-91C1-1551728AD75F




        9.       INDEMNITY. To the extent permitted by law, the Applicant shall indemnify and hold harmless the City,
                 its City Council, its officers, employees and agents (the “indemnified parties”) from and against any
                 claim, action, or proceeding brought by a third party against the indemnified parties and the applicant to
                 attack, set aside or void, any permit or approval authorized hereby for the Project, including (without
                 limitation) reimbursing the City for its actual attorneys’ fees and costs incurred in defense of the
                 litigation. The City may, in its sole discretion, elect to defend any such action with attorneys of its own
                 choice.

        10.      MITIGATION MONITORING REPORTING PROGRAM (MMRP). The MMRP associated with the project and
                 attached here as Exhibit A is incorporated by reference and all mitigation measures shall be
                 implemented as described in said document.

        11.      PLANNING FINAL INSPECTION. A Planning Division Final inspection will be required to determine
                 substantial compliance with the approved plans prior to the scheduling of a Building Division final. Any
                 revisions during the building process must be approved by Planning, including but not limited to;
                 materials, fenestration and hard surface locations. Contact your Project Planner at 650-329-2441 x0 to
                 schedule this inspection.

        12.      EXPIRATION. The project approval shall be valid for a period of one year from the original date of
                 approval. In the event a building permit(s) is not secured for the project within the time limit specified
                 above, the ARB approval shall expire and be of no further force or effect. Application for extension of
                 this entitlement may be made prior to the one year expiration.

        Building Division
        13.     The permit application shall be accompanied by all plans and related documents necessary to construct
                the complete project.

        14.      A demolition permit shall be required for the removal of the existing building(s) on site.

        15.      The entire project is to be included under a single building permit and shall not be phased under
                 multiple permits.

        16.      Separate submittals and permits are required for the following systems: E.V., P.V. and Solar Hot Water.

        17.      Design of building components that are not included in the plans submitted for building permit and are
                 to be “deferred” shall be limited to as few items as possible. The list of deferred items shall be reviewed
                 and approved prior to permit application.

        18.      The plans submitted for the building permit shall include an allowable floor area calculation that relates
                 the mixed occupancies to type of construction.

        19.      The plans submitted for the building permit shall include allowable floor area calculations that relate the
                 proposed occupancies to type of construction. This includes possible future installation of assembly
                 occupancies such as large conference rooms or cafeterias, for example.
DocuSign Envelope ID: 930BD357-2B99-4569-91C1-1551728AD75F




        20.      An acoustical analysis shall be submitted and the plans shall incorporate the report’s recommendations
                 needed to comply with the sound transmissions requirements in CBC Section 1207.

        Green Building
        21.    Green Building Ordinance:
                    a. Commercial Portion - CALGreen Tier 2: The project must meet the California Green Building
                       Code Tier 2 requirements. Due to the size of the project, the team must engage a commissioning
                       agent and fulfil on the commissioning requirements. Additional information may be found at
                       the following link http://www.cityofpaloalto.org/gov/depts/ds/green_building/default.asp. The
                       new Energy California Energy Code contains significant changes and Palo Alto is currently
                       enforcing code minimum for the energy code. The details can be found at the following link.
                       http://www.energy.ca.gov/title24/2013standards/
                    b. Residential Portion- Green Point Rated: The project is required to achieve Green Point Rated
                       Certification through Build It Green. The project team must engage a Green Point Rater. The
                       required minimum points value is 70. The required prerequisite and points associated with
                       exceeding the code shall be excused. Additional information may be found at the following
                       linkhttp://www.cityofpaloalto.org/gov/depts/ds/green_building/default.asp


        22. EV Parking Ordinance: The project is subject to meet the new Electric Vehicle Parking Ordinance that
               requires but is not limited to:
                     a. Multi-family: One EVSE Ready or EVSE Installed per unit. For guest parking, either conduit only,
                         EVSE Ready or EVSE Installed shall be provided for 25% of the parking. A minimum of 1 EVSE
                         Installed for multi-family guest parking shall be provided.
                     b. Commercial: For commercial parking, either conduit only, EVSE Ready or EVSE Installed shall be
                         provided for 25% of the parking. A minimum of 1 EVSE Installed for commercial parking shall be
                         provided.

        Urban Forestry
        23.      STREET TREES: City street trees approved to remain shall be maintained and protected during
                 construction per City of Palo Alto standard requirements as further described in the City’s Tree
                 Technical Manual and below:

                     a. UNIVERSITY AVENUE: Two regulated street trees (London Plane) on University Ave
                         frontage are to be retained and protected. Protection shall consist of Modified Type III
                         for the entire trunk and will include primary branches on the building side. Prior to any
                         clearance/pruning, the project applicant shall:
                              i. Submit a written Tree Care Application to Dorothy.dale@cityofpaloalto.org,
                             ii. Receive approval of said Tree Care Application, and
                            iii. Shall coordinate with Urban Forestry for direct supervision by staff of private
                                 tree contractor.

                     b. KIPLING STREET: Four trees in the right of way are approved for removal. Four
                         replacement trees shall be installed, Ginkgo biloba ‘Autumn Gold’, Maidenhair, 36-inch
                         box size, in 5’x5’ Kiva tree grates, two irrigation bubblers per tree (PW Standard Detail #
                         603a and 513). A certified arborist for the applicant shall evaluate/select matching trees
DocuSign Envelope ID: 930BD357-2B99-4569-91C1-1551728AD75F




                         for quality. Contractor shall coordinate an Urban Forestry inspection of the new trees,
                         before they are planted in the ground.
                              i. SIDEWALK BASE MEDIUM: As a root growing medium between the curb and
                                 building face, Silva Cell technology or approved equal, shall be designed as a
                                 suspended sidewalk element and provide low compaction area for long term
                                 root growth. A certified arborist for the applicant shall calculate how many cubic
                                 feet of soil and Silva cell material will be needed for each tree, for approval by
                                 the Urban Forester.

        24.      All landscape material shall be well maintained for the life of the project and replaced if it fails.

        Public Works Engineering Department
        PRIOR TO BUILDING PERMIT AND GRADING AND EXCAVATION PERMIT SUBMITTAL:

        25.      CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE: The applicant has revised the project description to indicate that she is
                 no longer pursuing the development of condominiums. Since the project site is located within two
                 parcels 120-15-029 and 120-15-028 a certificate of compliance for a lot merger is required. Applicant
                 shall apply for a certificate of compliance and provide the necessary documents. Certificate of
                 Compliance shall be recorded prior to issuance of a building or grading and excavation permit.

        PRIOR TO ISSUANCE OF A DEMOLITION PERMIT:

        26.      LOGISTICS PLAN: The applicant and contractor shall submit a construction logistics plan to the Public
                 Works Department that addresses all impacts to the City’s right-of-way, including, but not limited to:
                 construction fence, construction entrance, stockpile areas, office trailer, temporary bathroom, measures
                 for dewatering if needed, pedestrian control, traffic control, truck routes, material deliveries,
                 contractor’s parking, on-site staging and storage areas, concrete pours, crane lifts, work hours, noise
                 control, dust control, storm water pollution prevention, contractor’s contact. The plan shall be prepared
                 and submitted along the Rough Grading and Excavation Permit. It shall include notes as indicated on the
                 approved Truck Route Map for construction traffic to and from the site. Plan shall also indicate if the bus
                 stop will need to be relocated.


        27.      Applicant shall schedule a meeting with Public Works Engineering and Transportation Division to discuss
                 the existing building demolition, excavation and building construction logistics. Construction fence shall
                 be located at the building property line, travel lane closures will not be permitted. Applicant shall
                 propose a logistics plan that shows how pedestrian access is maintained and eliminating the least
                 number of parking spaces during construction.

        PRIOR TO ISSUANCE OF EXCAVATION AND GRADING PERMIT:

        28.      GRADING PERMIT: An Excavation and Grading Permit is required for grading activities on private
                 property that fill, excavate, store or dispose of 100 cubic yards or more based on PAMC Section
                 16.28.060. Applicant shall prepare and submit an excavation and grading permit to Public Works
                 separately from the building permit set. The permit application and instructions are available at the
                 Development                Center             and            on             our              website:
                 http://www.cityofpaloalto.org/gov/depts/pwd/forms_and_permits.asp
DocuSign Envelope ID: 930BD357-2B99-4569-91C1-1551728AD75F




        29.      ROUGH GRADING: provide a Rough Grading Plan for the work proposed as part of the Grading and
                 Excavation Permit application. The Rough Grading Plans shall including the following: pad elevation,
                 basement elevation, elevator pit elevation, ground monitoring wells, shoring for the proposed
                 basement, limits of over excavation, stockpile area of material, overall earthwork volumes (cut and fill),
                 temporary shoring for any existing facilities, ramps for the basement access, crane locations (if any), etc.
                 Plans submitted for the Grading and Excavation Permit, shall be stand-alone, and therefore the plans
                 shall include any conditions from other divisions that pertain to items encountered during rough grading
                 for example if contaminated groundwater is encountered and dewatering is expected, provide notes on
                 the plans based Water Quality’s conditions of approval. Provide a note on the plans to direct the
                 contractor to the approve City of Palo Alto Truck Route Map, which is available on the City’s website.

        30.      BASEMENT SHORING: Provide shoring plans for the basement excavation, clearly including tiebacks (if
                 any). Tieback shall not extend onto adjacent private property or into the City’s right-of-way without
                 having first obtained written permission from the private property owners and/or an encroachment
                 permit from Public Works. During the ARB process and via email dated 9/25/14 the applicant indicated
                 that the tiebacks will extend into the adjacent private property. As such provide a letter from the
                 neighboring property owner to allow the encroachment of permanent tiebacks into their property. In
                 addition the shoring plans shall clearly show the property line and the dimension between the outside
                 edge of the soldier piles and the property line for City records. Also provide notes on the Shoring Plans
                 for the “Contractor to cut-off the shoring 6-feet below the sidewalk elevation.” AND “Contractor shall
                 submit and obtain a permanent encroachment permit from Public Works for the tiebacks and shoring
                 located within public right-of-way.

        31.      DEWATERING: Basement excavation may require dewatering during construction. Public Works only
                 allows groundwater drawdown well dewatering. Open pit groundwater dewatering is not allowed.
                 Dewatering is only allowed from April through October due to inadequate capacity in our storm drain
                 system. The geotechnical report for this site must list the highest anticipated groundwater level. We
                 recommend that a piezometer be installed in the soil boring. The contractor shall determine the depth
                 to groundwater immediately prior to excavation by using a piezometer or by drilling an exploratory hole
                 if the deepest excavation will be within 3 feet of the highest anticipated groundwater level. If
                 groundwater is found within 2 feet of the deepest excavation, a drawdown well dewatering system
                 must be used, or alternatively, the contractor can excavate for the basement and hope not to hit
                 groundwater, but if he does, he must immediately stop all work and install a drawdown well system
                 before he continues to excavate. Based on the determined groundwater depth and season the
                 contractor may be required to dewater the site or stop all grading and excavation work. In addition
                 Public Works may require that all groundwater be tested for contaminants prior to initial discharge and
                 at intervals during dewatering. If testing is required, the contractor must retain an independent testing
                 firm to test the discharge water for contaminants Public Works specifies and submit the results to Public
                 Works.

                 Public Works reviews and approves dewatering plans as part of a Street Work Permit. The applicant can
                 include a dewatering plan in the building permit plan set in order to obtain approval of the plan during
                 the building permit review, but the contractor will still be required to obtain a street work permit prior
                 to dewatering. The street work permit to dewater must be obtained in August to allow ample to time to
                 dewater and complete the dewatering by October 31st. Alternatively, the applicant must include the
                 above dewatering requirements in a note on the site plan. Public Works has a sample dewatering plan
                 sheet and dewatering guidelines available at the Development Center and on our website:
DocuSign Envelope ID: 930BD357-2B99-4569-91C1-1551728AD75F




                 http://www.cityofpaloalto.org/gov/depts/pwd/forms_and_permits.asp

                 The following links are included to assist the applicant with dewatering requirements:
                 http://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/30978
                 http://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/51366
                 http://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/47388.

        32.      WATER FILLING STATION: Applicant shall install a water station for the non-potable reuse of the
                 dewatering water. This water station shall be constructed within private property, next to the right-of-
                 way, (typically, behind the sidewalk). The station shall be accessible 24 hours a day for the filling of
                 water carrying vehicles (i.e. street sweepers, etc.). The water station may also be used for onsite dust
                 control. Before a discharge permit can be issued, the water supply station shall be installed, ready for
                 operational and inspected by Public Works. The groundwater will also need to be tested for
                 contaminants and chemical properties for the non-potable use. The discharge permit cannot be issued
                 until the test results are received. Additional information regarding the station will be made available on
                 the City’s website under Public Works.

        33.      GROUNDWATER USE PLAN: A Groundwater Use Plan (GWUP) shall be submitted for review for any
                 project which requires dewatering. The GWUP, a narrative that shall be included in or accompany the
                 Dewatering Plan, must demonstrate the highest beneficial use practicable of the pumped
                 groundwater. The GWUP shall also state that all onsite, non-potable water needs such as dust control
                 shall be met by using the pumped groundwater. Delays in submitting the GWUP can result in delays in
                 the issuance of your discharge permit as Public Works requires sufficient review time which shall be
                 expected by the applicant.

        34.      GEOTECHNICAL REPORT: Shall clearly identify the highest projected groundwater level to be
                 encountered in the area of the proposed basement in the future will be           feet below existing
                 grade. Provide a note on the Rough Grading Plan that includes the comment above as a note.

        35.      GAS METERS: In-ground gas meters are not typically allowed by Public Works Utilities. If in-ground gas
                 meters are not allowed, the above ground gas meter shall be located complete within private property.
                 Plot and label the proposed location. If in-ground gas meters are permitted, applicant shall submit an
                 email from Utilities that indicates in-ground gas meters are acceptable for this project.

        PRIOR TO ISSUANCE OF A BUILDING PERMIT

        36.      MAPPING: Applicant has revised the project description to indicate that she is no longer pursuing the
                 development of condominiums. If at any point the applicant intends to sell portions of the building a
                 Minor or Major Subdivision Application will be required. Public Works’ Tentative Maps and Preliminary
                 Parcel Maps checklist must accompany the completed application. All existing and proposed
                 dedications and easements must be shown on the submitted map. The map would trigger further
                 requirements from Public Works, see Palo Alto Municipal Code section 21.12 for Preliminary Parcel Map
                 requirements and section 21.16 for Parcel Map requirements.

        37.      OFFSITE IMPROVEMENT PLANS: Prior to submittal of Building and/or Grading permit applicant shall
                 meet with Public Works to discuss off-site improvements. These may include but are not limited to new
                 concrete or asphalt work, utility upgrades or relocations, and/or street resurfacing.
DocuSign Envelope ID: 930BD357-2B99-4569-91C1-1551728AD75F




        38.      The following items were not addressed through the final ARB submittal and shall be shown on the
                 plans.

                 a.      Explain how all of the site runoff will drain directly into the media filter. The media filter shall be
                         located complete with the private property as shown on the approve ARB plans. The details
                         provided indicate that the media filter is to be installed below ground and discharge would need
                         to be pumped to the surface. However that is not reflected on the Utility Plan.
                 b.      Plot and label the total the number of disconnected downspouts. The civil has indicated that the
                         downspouts runoff will drain into the media filter, but it’s not clear on the plans how this will be
                         accomplished.
                 c.      The site plan shall demonstrate how the runoff from the MFS flows by gravity into the gutter,
                         provide pipe inverts and flowline grades. If a new separate structure is required to allow runoff
                         to flow by gravity into the gutter or reduce the velocity, then the structure shall be located
                         completely within the private property. The 4th and 5th resubmittal ARB plans show a junction
                         box within the public right of way, this box shall be located completely within the private
                         property.
                 d.      The 5th submittal shows a planter box adjacent to the alley and the MFS has been relocated to
                         be within this planter boxes. The plans submitted lack information, show how the roof runoff is
                         directed into the mechanical treatment facility. Plot and label the pump, drain lines,
                         downspouts. Show how all of the site runoff is treated by the proposed MFS.
                 e.      It’s not clear if the planter box is intended to provide C3 treatment. If LID treatment is proposed
                         provide the surface drainage areas and calculations.
                 f.      Resize the new planter box to allow the junction box to be within the private property and
                         behind the Kipling Street sidewalk. The planter box and planting material shall be revised to
                         meet the 4-ft by 6-ft clear site distance and height clearance. In addition the planter box shall be
                         located 1-foot minimum away from the adjacent alley.

        39.      GRADING AND DRAINAGE PLAN: The plan set must include a grading & drainage plan prepared by a
                 licensed professional that includes existing and proposed spot elevations, earthwork volumes, finished
                 floor elevations at every at grade door entrance, area drain and bubbler locations, drainage flow arrows
                 to demonstrate proper drainage of the site. See Palo Alto Municipal Code Section 16.28 Adjacent grades
                 must slope away from the building foundation at minimum of 2% or 5% for 10-feet per 2013 CBC Section
                 1804.3. Downspouts and splashblocks should be shown on this plan, as well as any site drainage
                 features such as swales. Grading will not be allowed that increases drainage onto, or blocks existing
                 drainage from, neighboring properties. Public Works generally does not allow rainwater to be collected
                 and discharged into the street gutter or connected directly to the City’s infrastructure, but encourages
                 the developer to keep rainwater onsite as much as feasible by directing runoff to landscape and other
                 pervious areas of the site. Plan shall also include a drainage system as required for all uncovered
                 exterior basement-level spaces such as lightwell, stairwells or driveway ramps.

        40.      BASEMENT DRAINAGE: Due to high groundwater throughout much of the City and Public Works
                 prohibiting the pumping and discharging of groundwater, perforated pipe drainage systems at the
                 exterior of the basement walls or under the slab are not allowed for this site. A drainage system is,
                 however, required for all exterior basement-level spaces, such as lightwells, patios or stairwells. This
                 system consists of a sump, a sump pump, a backflow preventer, and a closed pipe from the pump to a
                 dissipation device onsite at least 10-feet from the property line, such as a bubbler box in a landscaped
                 area, so that water can percolate into the soil and/or sheet flow across the site. The device must not
DocuSign Envelope ID: 930BD357-2B99-4569-91C1-1551728AD75F




                 allow stagnant water that could become mosquito habitat. Additionally, the plans must show that
                 exterior basement-level spaces are at least 7-3/4” below any adjacent windowsills or doorsills to
                 minimize the potential for flooding the basement. Public Works recommends a waterproofing
                 consultant be retained to design and inspect the vapor barrier and waterproofing systems for the
                 basement.

        41.      IMPERVIOUS SURFACE AREA: The project will be creating or replacing 500 square feet or more of
                 impervious surface. Accordingly, the applicant shall provide calculations of the existing and proposed
                 impervious surface areas with the building permit application. The Impervious Area Worksheet for Land
                 Developments form and instructions are available at the Development Center or on our website.

        42.      STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION: The City's full-sized "Pollution Prevention - It's Part of the
                 Plan" sheet must be included in the plan set. The sheet is available here:
                 http://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/2732

        43.      STORM WATER TREATMENT: This project shall comply with the storm water regulations contained in
                 provision C.3 of the NPDES municipal storm water discharge permit issued by the San Francisco Bay
                 Regional Water Quality Control Board (and incorporated into Palo Alto Municipal Code Chapter 16.11).
                 These regulations apply to land development projects that create or replace 10,000 square feet or more
                 of impervious surface, and restaurants, retail gasoline outlets, auto service facilities, and uncovered
                 parking lots that create and/or replace 5,000 square feet or more of impervious surface. In order to
                 address the potential permanent impacts of the project on storm water quality, the applicant shall
                 incorporate into the project a set of permanent site design measures, source controls, and treatment
                 controls that serve to protect storm water quality, subject to the approval of the Public Works
                 Department. The applicant shall identify, size, design and incorporate permanent storm water pollution
                 prevention measures (preferably landscape-based treatment controls such as bioswales, filter strips,
                 and permeable pavement rather than mechanical devices that require long-term maintenance) to treat
                 the runoff from a “water quality storm” specified in PAMC Chapter 16.11 prior to discharge to the
                 municipal storm drain system. Effective February 10, 2011, regulated projects, must contract with a
                 qualified third-party reviewer during the building permit review process to certify that the proposed
                 permanent storm water pollution prevention measures comply with the requirements of Palo Alto
                 Municipal Code Chapter 16.11. The certification form, 2 copies of approved storm water treatment
                 plan, and a description of Maintenance Task and Schedule must be received by the City from the third-
                 party reviewer prior to approval of the building permit by the Public Works department. Within 45 days
                 of the installation of the required storm water treatment measures and prior to the issuance of an
                 occupancy permit for the building, third-party reviewer shall also submit to the City a certification for
                 approval.

        44.      UTILITY PLAN: shall be provided with the Building Permit that demonstrates how the site’s drainage
                 flows by gravity into the City’s system and is not pumped. Public Works generally does not allow
                 downspout rainwater to be collected, piped and discharged directly into the street gutter or connect
                 directly to the City’s infrastructure. The utility plan shall indicate that downspouts are disconnected,
                 daylight at grade, and are directed to landscaped and other pervious areas onsite. Downspouts shall
                 daylight away from the foundation.

                 If pumps are required, plot and label where the pumps will be located on-site, storm water runoff from
                 pumped system shall daylight onto onsite landscaped areas and be allow to infiltrate and flow by gravity
DocuSign Envelope ID: 930BD357-2B99-4569-91C1-1551728AD75F




                 to the public storm drain line. Storm water runoff that is pumped shall not be directly piped into the
                 public storm drain line.

        45.      TRANSFORMER AND UTILITIES: Applicant shall be aware that the project may trigger water line and
                 meter upgrades or relocation, if upgrades or relocation are required, the building permit plan set shall
                 plot and label utility changes. The backflow preventer, and above grade meters shall be located within
                 private property and plotted on the plans. Similarly if a transformer upgrade or a grease interceptor is
                 required it shall also be located within the private property.

        46.      WORK IN THE RIGHT-OF-WAY: The plans must clearly indicate any work that is proposed in the public
                 right-of-way, such as sidewalk replacement, driveway approach, or utility laterals. The plans must
                 include notes that the work must be done per City standards and that the contractor performing this
                 work must first obtain a Street Work Permit from Public Works at the Development Center. This project
                 may be required to replace the driveway approach the sidewalk associated with the existing driveway
                 may be required to replaced with a thickened (6” thick instead of the standard 4” thick) section.

        47.      SIDEWALK ENCROACHMENT: Add a note to the site plan that says, “The contractor using the city
                 sidewalk to work on an adjacent private building must do so in a manner that is safe for pedestrians
                 using the sidewalk. Pedestrian protection must be provided per the 2013 California Building Code
                 Chapter 32 requirements. If the height of construction is 8 feet or less, the contractor must place
                 construction railings sufficient to direct pedestrians around construction areas. If the height of
                 construction is more than 8 feet, the contractor must obtain an encroachment permit from Public Works
                 at the Development Center in order to provide a barrier and covered walkway. The contractor must
                 apply to Public Works for an encroachment permit to close or occupy the sidewalk(s) or lane.”

        48.      SIDEWALK, CURB & GUTTER: As part of this project, the applicant must replace all of the existing
                 sidewalks, ramps, curbs, gutters or driveway approaches in the public right-of-way along the frontage(s)
                 of the property. Applicant shall be responsible for replacing the two ramps immediately across the
                 street from the project site. Applicant shall meet with Public Works and Transportation to discuss the
                 potential for adding a bulb-out along the University Avenue side to widen the sidewalk. If construction
                 of the new ramps and/or sidewalk results in a conflict with utilities or traffic signal than applicant will be
                 responsible for adjusting to grade or relocating conflict and to bring the improvements to current
                 designs standards. The site plan and grading and drainage plan submitted with the building permit plan
                 set must show the extent of the replacement work. Provide references to the specific City’s Standard
                 Drawings and Specification. The plan must note that any work in the right-of-way must be done per
                 Public Works’ standards by a licensed contractor who must first obtain a Street Work Permit from Public
                 Works at the Development Center.

        49.      RESURFACING: The applicant is required to resurface (grind and overlay) the entire width of the street
                 on University Avenue and Kipling Street frontages adjacent to the project. In addition this project is
                 required to resurface the full width of the Lane along the project frontage. Note that the base material
                 for these 3 streets varies. Thermoplastic striping of the street(s) will be required after resurfacing.
                 Include an off-site plan that shows the existing signage and striping that is to be replaces as part of this
                 project and for the contractor’s use.

        50.      DEMOLITION PLAN: Place the following note adjacent to an affected tree on the Site Plan and
                 Demolition Plan: “Excavation activities associated with the proposed scope of work shall occur no closer
DocuSign Envelope ID: 930BD357-2B99-4569-91C1-1551728AD75F




                 than 10-feet from the existing street tree, or as approved by the Urban Forestry Division contact 650-
                 496-5953. Any changes shall be approved by the same”.

        51.      STREET TREES: The applicant may be required to replace existing and/or add new street trees in the
                 public right-of-way along the property’s frontage(s). Call the Public Works’ arborist at 650-496-5953 to
                 arrange a site visit so he can determine what street tree work, if any, will be required for this project.
                 The site plan submitted with the building permit plan set must show the street tree work that the
                 arborist has determined, including the tree species, size, location, staking and irrigation requirements,
                 or include a note that Public Works’ arborist has determined no street tree work is required. The plan
                 must note that in order to do street tree work, the applicant must first obtain a Permit for Street Tree
                 Work in the Public Right-of-Way from Public Works’ arborist (650-496-5953).

        52.      GARBAGE/TRASH RECEPTACLES: The plans provided for preliminary review do not include the existing
                 garbage/trash receptacle along University Avenue. This shall be shown on the Building permit plans and
                 remain in its location for as long as possible during construction. If construction activities require the
                 temporary removal of the receptacle, the contractor may remove during that construction activity but
                 must place it back as soon as those activities have been completed. Prior to doing so, the contractor
                 must notify the public works department to determine if Public Works Operations should pick it up for
                 storage during that time.

        53.      ADJACENT NEIGHBORS: For any improvements that extend beyond the property lines such as tie-backs
                 for the basement or construction access provide signed copies of the original agreements with the
                 adjacent property owners. The agreements shall indicate that the adjacent property owners have
                 reviewed and approved the proposed improvements (such as soldier beams, tiebacks) that extend into
                 their respective properties

        54.      “NO DUMPING” LOGO: The applicant is required to paint the “No Dumping/Flows to San Franscisquito
                 Creek” logo in blue color on a white background, adjacent to all onsite storm drain inlets. Stencils of the
                 logo are available from the Public Works Environmental Compliance Division, which may be contacted at
                 (650) 329-2598. A deposit may be required to secure the return of the stencil. Include the instruction to
                 paint the logos on the construction grading and drainage plan. Similar medallions shall be installed near
                 the catch basins that are proposed to be relocated. Provide notes on the plans to reference that
                 medallions and stencils.

        55.      OIL/WATER SEPARATOR: Parking garage floor drains on interior levels shall be connected to an oil/water
                 separator prior to discharging to the sanitary sewer system. The oil/water separator shall be located
                 within private property.

        56.      GREASE INTERCEPTOR: If a commercial kitchen is proposed requiring the installation of a grease
                 interceptor, the grease separator shall be installed and located within private property. In no case shall
                 the City of Palo Alto allow the right-of-way (ROW) to be used to satisfy this requirement.

        PRIOR TO BUILDING PERMIT FINAL:

        57.      STORM WATER TREATMENT: At the time of installation of the required storm water treatment measures
                 and prior to the issuance of any occupancy permit, a third-party reviewer shall also submit to the City a
DocuSign Envelope ID: 930BD357-2B99-4569-91C1-1551728AD75F




                 certification for approval that the project’s permanent measures were constructed and installed in
                 accordance to the approved permit drawings.

        58.      STORMWATER MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT: The applicant shall designate a party to maintain the
                 control measures for the life of the improvements and must enter into a maintenance agreement with
                 the City to guarantee the ongoing maintenance of the permanent C.3 storm water discharge compliance
                 measures. The maintenance agreement shall be executed prior to the first building occupancy sign-off.
                 The City will inspect the treatment measures yearly and charge an inspection fee. There is currently a
                 $381 (FY 2015) C.3 plan check fee that will be collected upon submittal for a grading or building permit.

        59.      Contractor and/or Applicant shall prepare and submit an electronic (pdf) copy of the Off-Site
                 Improvements As-Built set of plans to Public Works for the City’s records. The as-built set shall include
                 all the improvements within the public road right-of-way and include items such as: shoring piles,
                 tiebacks, public storm drain improvements, traffic signs, street trees, location of any vaults or boxes, and
                 any other item that was installed as part of this project.

        60.      Contractor shall submit and obtain an Encroachment permit for the permanent structures (shoring and
                 tiebacks) that were installed within the public road right-of-way.

        Fire Department

        61.      Residential sprinklers to be designed per NFPA 13. Fire sprinklers and fire alarm systems and standpipes
                 required in accordance with NFPA 13, NFPA14, NFPA 24, NFPA 72 and State and local standards.
                 Sprinkler, fire alarm and underground fire supply installations require separate submittal to the Fire
                 Prevention Bureau.

        62.      Sprinkler main drain must be coordinated with plumbing design so that 200 gpm can be flowed for
                 annual main drain testing for 90 seconds without overflowing the collection sump, and the Utilities
                 Department approved ejector pumps will be the maximum flow rate to sanitary sewer.

        63.      Applicant shall work with Utilities Department to provide acceptable backflow prevention configuration.

        64.      All floor levels in multi-story buildings must be served by an elevator capable of accommodating a 24 x
                 84 inch gurney without lifting or manipulating the gurney.

        65.      All welding or other hot work during construction shall be under a permit obtained from the Palo Alto
                 Fire Department with proper notification and documentation of procedures followed and work
                 conducted.

        66.      Low-E glass and underground parking areas can interfere with portable radios used by emergency
                 responders. Please provide an RF Engineering analysis to determine if additional devices or equipment
                 will be needed to maintain operability of emergency responder portable radios throughout 97% of the
                 multi-family buildings in accordance with the Fire Code Appendix J as adopted by the City of Palo Alto. A
                 written report to the Fire Marshal shall be provided prior to final inspection.

        Utilities Electrical Engineering
DocuSign Envelope ID: 930BD357-2B99-4569-91C1-1551728AD75F




        GENERAL:

        67.      The applicant shall comply with all the Electric Utility Engineering Department service requirements
                 noted during plan review.

        68.      The applicant shall be responsible for identification and location of all utilities, both public and private,
                 within the work area. Prior to any excavation work at the site, the applicant shall contact Underground
                 Service Alert (USA) at 1-800-227-2600, at least 48 hours prior to beginning work.

        69.      The applicant shall submit a request to disconnect all existing utility services and/or meters including a
                 signed affidavit of vacancy, on the form provided by the Building Inspection Division. Utilities will be
                 disconnected or removed within 10 working days after receipt of request. The demolition permit will be
                 issued after all utility services and/or meters have been disconnected and removed.

        THE FOLLOWING SHALL BE INCORPORATED IN SUBMITTALS FOR ELECTRIC SERVICE:

        70.      A completed Electric Load Sheet and a full set of plans must be included with all applications involving
                 electrical work. The load sheet must be included with the preliminary submittal.

        71.      Industrial and large commercial customers must allow sufficient lead-time for Electric Utility Engineering
                 and Operations (typically 8-12 weeks after advance engineering fees have been paid) to design and
                 construct the electric service requested.

        72.      Only one electric service lateral is permitted per parcel. Utilities Rule & Regulation #18.

        73.      This project requires a padmount transformer. The location of the transformer shall be shown on the
                 site plan and approved by the Utilities Department and the Architectural Review Board. Utilities Rule &
                 Regulations #3 & #16.

        74.      The developer/owner shall provide space for installing padmount equipment (i.e. transformers,
                 switches, and interrupters) and associated substructure as required by the City.

        75.      The customer shall install all electrical substructures (conduits, boxes and pads) required from the
                 service point to the customer’s switchgear. The design and installation shall be according to the City
                 standards and shown on plans. Utilities Rule & Regulations #16 & #18.

        76.      Location of the electric panel/switchboard shall be shown on the site plan and approved by the
                 Architectural Review Board and Utilities Department.

        77.      All utility meters, lines, transformers, backflow preventers, and any other required equipment shall be
                 shown on the landscape and irrigation plans and shall show that no conflict will occur between the
                 utilities and landscape materials. In addition, all aboveground equipment shall be screened in a manner
                 that is consistent with the building design and setback requirements.

        78.      For services larger than 1600 amps, the customer will be required to provide a transition cabinet as the
                 interconnection point between the utility’s padmount transformer and the customer’s main switchgear.
DocuSign Envelope ID: 930BD357-2B99-4569-91C1-1551728AD75F




                 The cabinet design drawings must be submitted to the Electric Utility Engineering Department for
                 review and approval.

        79.      For underground services, no more than four (4) 750 MCM conductors per phase can be connected to
                 the transformer secondary terminals; otherwise, bus duct must be used for connections to padmount
                 transformers. If customer installs a bus duct directly between the transformer secondary terminals and
                 the main switchgear, the installation of a transition cabinet will not be required.

        80.      The customer is responsible for sizing the service conductors and other required equipment according to
                 the National Electric Code requirements and the City standards. Utilities Rule & Regulation #18.

        81.      If the customer’s total load exceeds 2500 kVA, service shall be provided at the primary voltage of 12,470
                 volts and the customer shall provide the high voltage switchgear and transformers.

        82.      For primary services, the standard service protection is a padmount fault interrupter owned an
                 maintained by the City, installed at the customer’s expense. The customer must provide and install the
                 pad and associated substructure required for the fault interrupter.

        83.      Any additional facilities and services requested by the Applicant that are beyond what the utility deems
                 standard facilities will be subject to Special Facilities charges. The Special Facilities charges include the
                 cost of installing the additional facilities as well as the cost of ownership. Utilities Rule & Regulation #20.

        84.      Projects that require the extension of high voltage primary distribution lines or reinforcement of offsite
                 electric facilities will be at the customer’s expense and must be coordinated with the Electric Utility.

        DURING CONSTRUCTION:

        85.      Contractors and developers shall obtain permit from the Department of Public Works before digging in
                 the street right-of-way. This includes sidewalks, driveways and planter strips.

        86.      At least 48 hours prior to starting any excavation, the customer must call Underground Service Alert
                 (USA) at 1-800-227-2600 to have existing underground utilities located and marked. The areas to be
                 check by USA shall be delineated with white paint. All USA markings shall be removed by the customer
                 or contractor when construction is complete.

        87.      The customer is responsible for installing all on-site substructures (conduits, boxes and pads) required
                 for the electric service. No more than 270 degrees of bends are allowed in a secondary conduit run. All
                 conduits must be sized according to National Electric Code requirements and no 1/2 – inch size conduits
                 are permitted. All off-site substructure work will be constructed by the City at the customer’s expense.
                 Where mutually agreed upon by the City and the Applicant, all or part of the off-site substructure work
                 may be constructed by the Applicant.

        88.      All primary electric conduits shall be concrete encased with the top of the encasement at the depth of
                 30 inches. No more than 180 degrees of bends are allowed in a primary conduit run. Conduit runs over
                 500 feet in length require additional pull boxes.
DocuSign Envelope ID: 930BD357-2B99-4569-91C1-1551728AD75F




        89.      All new underground conduits and substructures shall be installed per City standards and shall be
                 inspected by the Electrical Underground Inspector before backfilling.

        90.      The customer is responsible for installing all underground electric service conductors, bus duct,
                 transition cabinets, and other required equipment. The installation shall meet the National Electric
                 Code and the City Standards.

        91.      Meter and switchboard requirements shall be in accordance with Electric Utility Service Equipment
                 Requirements Committee (EUSERC) drawings accepted by Utility and CPA standards for meter
                 installations.

        92.      Shop/factory drawings for switchboards (400A and greater) and associated hardware must be submitted
                 for review and approval prior to installing the switchgear to:

                 Gopal Jagannath, P.E.
                 Supervising Electric Project Engineer
                 Utilities Engineering (Electrical)
                 1007 Elwell Court
                 Palo Alto, CA 94303

        93.      Catalog cut sheets may not be substituted for factory drawing submittal.

        94.      All new underground electric services shall be inspected and approved by both the Building Inspection
                 Division and the Electrical Underground Inspector before energizing.

        AFTER CONSTRUCTION & PRIOR TO FINALIZATION:

        95.      The customer shall provide as-built drawings showing the location of all switchboards, conduits (number
                 and size), conductors (number and size), splice boxes, vaults and switch/transformer pads.

        PRIOR TO ISSUANCE OF BUILDING OCCUPANCY PERMIT:

        96.      The applicant shall secure a Public Utilities Easement for facilities installed on private property for City
                 use.

        97.      All required inspections have been completed and approved by both the Building Inspection Division
                 and the Electrical Underground Inspector.


        98.      All Special Facilities contracts or other agreements need to be signed by the City and applicant.

        ADDITIONAL COMMENTS:

        99.      The following conditions apply to three-phase service and any service over 400 amperes:

                 a. A padmount transformer is required.
DocuSign Envelope ID: 930BD357-2B99-4569-91C1-1551728AD75F




                 b. The Utilities Director, or his/her designee, may authorize the installation of submersible or vault
                    installed facilities if in their opinion, padmounted equipment would not be feasible or practical.

                 c. Submersible or vault installed facilities shall be considered Special Facilities as described in Rule and
                    Regulation 20, and all costs associated with the installation, including continuing ownership and
                    maintenance, will be borne by the applicant (see Rule and Regulation 3 for details).

                 d. The customer must provide adequate space for installation, or reimburse the Utility for additional
                    costs to locate the transformer outside the property boundaries.

        All service equipment must be located above grade level unless otherwise approved by Electric Engineering.

        Utilities Water Gas Wastewater Department

        PRIOR TO ISSUANCE OF DEMOLITION PERMIT:
        100. Prior to demolition, the applicant shall submit the existing water/wastewater fixture unit loads (and
               building as-built plans to verify the existing loads) to determine the capacity fee credit for the existing
               load. If the applicant does not submit loads and plans they may not receive credit for the existing
               water/wastewater fixtures.

        101.     The applicant shall submit a request to disconnect all utility services and/or meters including a signed
                 affidavit of vacancy. Utilities will be disconnected or removed within 10 working days after receipt of
                 request. The demolition permit will be issued by the building inspection division after all utility services
                 and/or meters have been disconnected and removed.

        FOR BUILDING PERMIT:

        102.     The applicant shall submit completed water-gas-wastewater service connection applications - load
                 sheets for City of Palo Alto Utilities for each unit or place of business. The applicant must provide all the
                 information requested for utility service demands (water in fixture units/g.p.m., gas in b.t.u.p.h, and
                 sewer in fixture units/g.p.d.). The applicant shall provide the existing (prior) loads, the new loads, and
                 the combined/total loads (the new loads plus any existing loads to remain).

        103.     The applicant shall submit improvement plans for utility construction. The plans must show the size and
                 location of all underground utilities within the development and the public right of way including
                 meters, backflow preventers, fire service requirements, sewer mains, sewer cleanouts, sewer lift
                 stations and any other required utilities.

        104.     The applicant must show on the site plan the existence of any auxiliary water supply (i.e. water well,
                 gray water, recycled water, rain catchment, water storage tank, etc).

        105.     The applicant shall be responsible for installing and upgrading the existing utility mains and/or services
                 as necessary to handle anticipated peak loads. This responsibility includes all costs associated with the
                 design and construction for the installation/upgrade of the utility mains and/or services.

        106.     The applicant’s engineer shall submit flow calculations and system capacity study showing that the on-
                 site and off-site water and sanitary sewer mains and services will provide the domestic, irrigation, fire
DocuSign Envelope ID: 930BD357-2B99-4569-91C1-1551728AD75F




                 flows, and wastewater capacity needed to service the development and adjacent properties during
                 anticipated peak floor demands. Field testing may be required to determine current flows and water
                 pressures on existing water main. Calculations must be signed and stamped by a registered civil
                 engineer. The applicant is required to perform, at his/her expense, a flow monitoring study of the
                 existing sewer main to determine the remaining capacity. The report must include existing peak flows or
                 depth of flow based on a minimum monitoring period of seven continuous days or as determined by the
                 senior wastewater engineer. The study shall meet the requirements and the approval of the WGW
                 engineering section. No downstream overloading of existing sewer main will be permitted.

        107.     For contractor installed water and wastewater mains or services, the applicant shall submit to the WGW
                 engineering section of the Utilities Department four copies of the installation of public water, gas and
                 wastewater utilities improvement plans (the portion to be owned and maintained by the City) in
                 accordance with the utilities department design criteria. All utility work within the public right-of-way
                 shall be clearly shown on the plans that are prepared, signed and stamped by a registered civil engineer.
                 The contractor shall also submit a complete schedule of work, method of construction and the
                 manufacture's literature on the materials to be used for approval by the utilities engineering section.
                 The applicant's contractor will not be allowed to begin work until the improvement plan and other
                 submittals have been approved by the water, gas and wastewater engineering section. After the work is
                 complete but prior to sign off, the applicant shall provide record drawings (as-builts) of the contractor
                 installed water and wastewater mains and services per City of Palo Alto Utilities’ record drawing
                 procedures. For contractor installed services the contractor shall install 3M marker balls at each water
                 or wastewater service tap to the main and at the City clean out for wastewater laterals.

        108.     An approved reduced pressure principle assembly (RPPA backflow preventer device) is required for all
                 existing and new water connections from Palo Alto Utilities to comply with requirements of California
                 administrative code, title 17, sections 7583 through 7605 inclusive. The RPPA shall be installed on the
                 owner's property and directly behind the water meter within 5 feet of the property line. RPPA’s for
                 domestic service shall be lead free. Show the location of the RPPA on the plans.

        109.     An approved reduced pressure detector assembly is required for the existing or new water connection
                 for the fire system to comply with requirements of California administrative code, title 17, sections 7583
                 through 7605 inclusive (a double detector assembly may be allowed for existing fire sprinkler systems
                 upon the CPAU’s approval). Reduced pressure detector assemblies shall be installed on the owner's
                 property adjacent to the property line, within 5’ of the property line. Show the location of the reduced
                 pressure detector assembly on the plans.

        110.     All backflow preventer devices shall be approved by the WGW engineering division. Inspection by the
                 utilities cross connection inspector is required for the supply pipe between the meter and the assembly.

        111.     Existing wastewater laterals that are not plastic (ABS, PVC, or PE) shall be replaced at the applicant’s
                 expense.

        112.     Existing wastewater main is 5.4” PE on Kipling Street. (sewer lateral to be 4”)

        113.     Existing water services (including fire services) that are not a currently standard material shall be
                 replaced at the applicant’s expense.
DocuSign Envelope ID: 930BD357-2B99-4569-91C1-1551728AD75F




        114.     The applicant shall pay the capacity fees and connection fees associated with new utility service/s or
                 added demand on existing services. The approved relocation of services, meters, hydrants, or other
                 facilities will be performed at the cost of the person/entity requesting the relocation.

        115.     Each unit or place of business shall have its own water and gas meter shown on the plans. Each parcel
                 shall have its own water service, gas service and sewer lateral connection shown on the plans.

        116.     A separate water meter and backflow preventer is required to irrigate the approved landscape plan.
                 Show the location of the irrigation meter on the plans. This meter shall be designated as an irrigation
                 account and no other water service will be billed on the account. The irrigation and landscape plans
                 submitted with the application for a grading or building permit shall conform to the City of Palo Alto
                 water efficiency standards.

        117.     A new water service line installation for domestic usage is required. For service connection of 4-inch
                 through 8-inch sizes, the applicant’s contractor must provide and install a concrete vault with meter
                 reading lid covers for water meter and other required control equipment in accordance with the utilities
                 standard detail. Show the location of the new water service and meter on the plans.

        118.     A new water service line installation for irrigation usage may require. Show the location of the new
                 water service and meter on the plans.

        119.     A new water service line installation for fire system usage is required. Show the location of the new
                 water service on the plans. The applicant shall provide to the Engineering Department a copy of the
                 plans for fire system including all Fire Department’s requirements. Please see a fire/domestic
                 combination service connection for your provide- see City of Palo Alto standard WD-11.

        120.     A new gas service line installation is required. Show the new gas meter location on the plans. The gas
                 meter location must conform with utilities standard details. Gas meter to be installed above ground.

        121.     A new sewer lateral installation per lot is required. Show the location of the new sewer lateral on the
                 plans.

        122.     All existing water and wastewater services that will not be reused shall be abandoned at the main per
                 WGW utilities procedures.

        123.     Utility vaults, transformers, utility cabinets, concrete bases, or other structures cannot be placed over
                 existing water, gas or wastewater mains/services. Maintain 1’ horizontal clear separation from the
                 vault/cabinet/concrete base to existing utilities as found in the field. If there is a conflict with existing
                 utilities, Cabinets/vaults/bases shall be relocated from the plan location as needed to meet field
                 conditions. Trees may not be planted within 10 feet of existing water, gas or wastewater mains/services
                 or meters. New water, gas or wastewater services/meters may not be installed within 10’ or existing
                 trees. Maintain 10’ between new trees and new water, gas and wastewater services/mains/meters.

        124.     To install new gas service by directional boring, the applicant is required to have a sewer cleanout at the
                 front of the building. This cleanout is required so the sewer lateral can be videoed for verification of no
                 damage after the gas service is installed by directional boring.
DocuSign Envelope ID: 930BD357-2B99-4569-91C1-1551728AD75F




        125.     All utility installations shall be in accordance with the City of Palo Alto utility standards for water, gas &
                 wastewater.

        126.     All WGW utilities work on University Avenue is 1.5 times the stated fee due to traffic; existing conditions
                 require the work to be done outside of regular work hours.

        Zero Waste/ Solid Waste

        PRIOR TO ISSUANCE OF A BUILDING PERMIT

        127.     Provide a garbage and recycling chute for the residential unit with either an additional chute or a bin
                 space for compostables on the residential floor.

        128.     SERVICE LEVELS: Without a restaurant: the enclosure should be sized for 3-yard garbage bin, 4-yard
                 recycling bin, 1-yard compostables bin; with a restaurant: With a restaurant: 3-yard garbage bin, 4-yard
                 recycling bin, 2-yard compostables bin.

        129.     TRASH DISPOSAL AND RECYCLING (PAMC 18.23.020): (A) Assure that development provides adequate
                 and accessible interior areas or exterior enclosures for the storage of trash and recyclable materials in
                 appropriate containers, and that trash disposal and recycling areas are located as far from abutting
                 residences as is reasonably possible. (B) Requirements: (i) Trash disposal and recyclable areas shall be
                 accessible to all residents or users of the property. (ii) Recycling facilities shall be located, sized, and
                 designed to encourage and facilitate convenient use. (iii) Trash disposal and recyclable areas shall be
                 screened from public view by masonry or other opaque and durable material, and shall be enclosed and
                 covered. Gates or other controlled access shall be provided where feasible. Chain link enclosures are
                 strongly discouraged. (iv) Trash disposal and recycling structures shall be architecturally compatible with
                 the design of the project. (v) The design, construction and accessibility of recycling areas and enclosures
                 shall be subject to approval by the architectural review board, in accordance with design guidelines
                 adopted by that board and approved by the city council pursuant to Section 18.76.020.

        130.     RECYCLING STORAGE DESIGN REQUIREMENTS (PAMC 5.20.120): The design of any new, substantially
                 remodeled, or expanded building or other facility shall provide for proper storage, handling, and
                 accessibility which will accommodate the solid waste and recyclable materials loading anticipated and
                 which will allow for the efficient and safe collection. The design shall comply with the applicable
                 provisions of Sections 18.22.100, 18.24.100, 18.26.100, 18.32.080, 18.37.080, 18.41.080, 18.43.080,
                 18.45.080, 18.49.140, 18.55.080, 18.60.080, and 18.68.170 of Title 18 of this code.

        131.     SERVICE REQUIREMENTS: (a) Collection vehicle access (vertical clearance, street width and turnaround
                 space) and street parking are common issues pertaining to new developments. Adequate space must be
                 provided for vehicle access. (b) Weight limit for all drivable areas to be accessed by the solid waste
                 vehicles (roads, driveways, pads) must be rated to 60,000 lbs. This includes areas where permeable
                 pavement is used. (c) Containers must be within 25 feet of service area or charges will apply. (d) Carts
                 and bins must be able to roll without obstacles or curbs to reach service areas "no jumping curbs”.

        132.     GARBAGE, RECYCLING, AND YARD WASTE/COMPOSTABLES CART/ BIN LOCATION AND SIZING:
DocuSign Envelope ID: 930BD357-2B99-4569-91C1-1551728AD75F




                     a. Office Building: The proposed commercial development must follow the requirements for
                         recycling container space1. Project plans must show the placement of recycling containers, for
                         example, within the details of the solid waste enclosures. Collection space should be provided
                         for built-in recycling containers/storage on each floor/office or alcoves for the placement of
                         recycling containers.
                               i. Enclosure and access should be designed for equal access to all three waste streams –
                                  garbage, recycling, and compostables.
                              ii. Collection cannot be performed in underground. Underground bins locations require a
                                  minimum of 77” of vertical clearance. Pull out charges will apply. In instances where
                                  push services are not available (e.g., hauler driver cannot push containers up or down
                                  ramps), the property owner will be responsible for placing solid waste containers in an
                                  accessible location for collection.
                             iii. All service areas must have a clearance height of 20’ for bin service.
                             iv. New enclosures should consider rubber bumpers to reduce ware and tear on walls.
                 For questions regarding garbage, recycling, and compostables collection issues, contact Green Waste of
                 Palo Alto (650) 493-4894.

                     b. Restaurants and Food Service Establishments: Please contact Green Waste of Palo Alto (650)
                        493-4894 to maximize the collection of compostables in food preparation areas and customer
                        areas.

                 For more information about compostable food service products, please contact City of Palo Alto Zero
                 Waste at (650) 496-5910.

                     c. Multi-family Residential: The proposed multi-family development must follow the requirements
                         for recycling container space2. All residential developments, where central garbage, recycling,
                         and compostables containers will serve five or more dwelling units, must have space for the
                         storage and collection of recyclables and compostables. This includes the provision of recycling
                         chutes where garbage chutes are provided. Project plans must show the placement of recycling
                         and compostables containers, for example, within the details of the solid waste enclosures.
                               i. Enclosure and access should be designed for equal access to all three waste streams –
                                  garbage, recycling, and compostables.
                              ii. Collection cannot be performed in underground. Underground bins locations require a
                                  minimum of 77” of vertical clearance. Pull out charges will apply. In instances where
                                  push services are not available (e.g., hauler driver cannot push containers up or down
                                  ramps), the property owner will be responsible for placing solid waste containers in an
                                  accessible location for collection.
                             iii. All service areas must have a clearance height of 20’ for bin service.
                             iv. New enclosures should consider rubber bumpers to reduce wear-and-tear on walls.
                 For questions regarding garbage, recycling, and compostables collection issues, contact Green Waste of
                 Palo Alto (650) 493-4894.


        133.     COVERED DUMPSTERS, RECYCLING AND TALLOW BIN AREAS (PAMC 16.09.075(q)(2)):


        1 In accordance with the California Public Resources Code, Chapter 18, Articles 1 and 2
        2 In accordance with the California Public Resources Code, Chapter 18, Articles 1 and 2
DocuSign Envelope ID: 930BD357-2B99-4569-91C1-1551728AD75F




                 a. Newly constructed and remodeled Food Service Establishments (FSEs) shall include a covered area
                    for all dumpsters, bins, carts or container used for the collection of trash, recycling, food scraps and
                    waste cooking fats, oils and grease (FOG) or tallow.
                 b. The area shall be designed and shown on plans to prevent water run-on to the area and runoff from
                    the area.
                 c. Drains that are installed within the enclosure for recycle and waste bins, dumpsters and tallow bins
                    serving FSEs are optional. Any such drain installed shall be connected to a Grease Control Device
                    (GCD).
                 d. If tallow is to be stored outside then an adequately sized, segregated space for a tallow bin shall be
                    included in the covered area.
                 e. These requirements shall apply to remodeled or converted facilities to the extent that the portion of
                    the facility being remodeled is related to the subject of the requirement.

                 It is frequently to the FSE’s advantage to install the next size larger GCD to allow for more efficient
                 grease discharge prevention and may allow for longer times between cleaning. There are many
                 manufacturers of GCDs which are available in different shapes, sizes and materials (plastic, reinforced
                 fiberglass, reinforced concrete and metal).

                 The requirements will assist FSEs with FOG discharge prevention to the sanitary sewer and storm drain
                 pollution prevention. The FSE at all times shall comply with the Sewer Use Ordinance of the Palo Alto
                 Municipal Code. The ordinances include requirements for GCDs, GCD maintenance, drainage fixtures,
                 record keeping and construction projects.

        134.     CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION DEBRIS (CDD) (PAMC 5.24.030):
                 a. Covered projects shall comply with construction and demolition debris diversion rates and other
                    requirements established in Chapter 16.14 (California Green Building Code). In addition, all debris
                    generated by a covered project must haul 100 percent of the debris not salvaged for reuse to an
                    approved facility as set forth in this chapter.
                 b. Contact the City of Palo Alto’s Green Building Coordinator for assistance on how to recycle
                    construction and demolition debris from the project, including information on where to
                    conveniently recycle the material.

        Public Works Water Quality Control

        135.     DISCHARGE OF GROUNDWATER (PAMC 16.09.170, 16.09.040): Prior approval shall be obtained from the
                 city engineer or designee to discharge water pumped from construction sites to the storm drain. The
                 city engineer or designee may require gravity settling and filtration upon a determination that either or
                 both would improve the water quality of the discharge. Contaminated ground water or water that
                 exceeds state or federal requirements for discharge to navigable waters may not be discharged to the
                 storm drain. Such water may be discharged to the sewer, provided that the discharge limits contained in
                 Palo Alto Municipal Code (16.09.040(m)) are not exceeded and the approval of the superintendent is
                 obtained prior to discharge. The City shall be compensated for any costs it incurs in authorizing such
                 discharge, at the rate set forth in the Municipal Fee Schedule.

        136.     UNPOLLUTED WATER (PAMC 16.09.055): Unpolluted water shall not be discharged through direct or
                 indirect connection to the sanitary sewer system (e.g. uncovered ramp to garage area).
DocuSign Envelope ID: 930BD357-2B99-4569-91C1-1551728AD75F




        137.     COVERED PARKING (PAMC 16.09.180(b)(9)): If installed, drain plumbing for parking garage floor drains
                 must be connected to an oil/water separator with a minimum capacity of 100 gallons, and to the
                 sanitary sewer system.

        138.     DUMPSTERS FOR NEW AND REMODELED FACILITATIES (PAMC 16.09.180(b)(10)): New buildings and
                 residential developments providing centralized solid waste collection, except for single-family and
                 duplex residences, shall provide a covered area for a dumpster. The area shall be adequately sized for all
                 waste streams and designed with grading or a berm system to prevent water runon and runoff from the
                 area.

        139.     ARCHITECTURAL COPPER PAMC (16.09.180(b)(14)): On and after January 1, 2003, copper metal roofing,
                 copper metal gutters, copper metal down spouts, and copper granule containing asphalt shingles shall
                 not be permitted for use on any residential, commercial or industrial building for which a building
                 permit is required. Copper flashing for use under tiles or slates and small copper ornaments are exempt
                 from this prohibition. Replacement roofing, gutters and downspouts on historic structures are exempt,
                 provided that the roofing material used shall be prepatinated at the factory. For the purposes of this
                 exemption, the definition of "historic" shall be limited to structures designated as Category 1 or
                 Category 2 buildings in the current edition of the Palo Alto Historical and Architectural Resources Report
                 and Inventory.

        140.     LOADING DOCKS (PAMC 16.09.175(k) (2)): (i) Loading dock drains to the storm drain system may be
                 allowed if equipped with a fail-safe valve or equivalent device that is kept closed during the non-rainy
                 season and during periods of loading dock operation. (ii) Where chemicals, hazardous materials, grease,
                 oil, or waste products are handled or used within the loading dock area, a drain to the storm drain
                 system shall not be allowed. A drain to the sanitary sewer system may be allowed if equipped with a fail-
                 safe valve or equivalent device that is kept closed during the non-rainy season and during periods of
                 loading dock operation. The area in which the drain is located shall be covered or protected from
                 rainwater run-on by berms and/or grading. Appropriate wastewater treatment approved by the
                 Superintendent shall be provided for all rainwater contacting the loading dock site.

        141.     CONDENSATE FROM HVAC (PAMC 16.09.180(b)(5)): Condensate lines shall not be connected or allowed
                 to drain to the storm drain system.

        142.     SILVER PROCESSING (e.g. photoprocessing retail) (PAMC 16.09.215): Facilities conducting silver
                 processing (photographic or X-ray films) shall either submit a treatment application or waste hauler
                 certification for all spent silver bearing solutions. 650-329-2421.
DocuSign Envelope ID: 930BD357-2B99-4569-91C1-1551728AD75F




        143.      COPPER PIPING (PAMC 16.09.180(b)(b)): Copper, copper alloys, lead and lead alloys, including brass,
                  shall not be used in sewer lines, connectors, or seals coming in contact with sewage except for domestic
                  waste sink traps and short lengths of associated connecting pipes where alternate materials are not
                  practical. The plans must specify that copper piping will not be used for wastewater plumbing.

        144.      MERCURY SWITCHES (PAMC 16.09.180(12)): Mercury switches shall not be installed in sewer or storm
                  drain sumps.

        145.      COOLING SYSTEMS, POOLS, SPAS, FOUNTAINS, BOILERS AND HEAT EXCHANGERS (PAMC 16.09.205(a)): It
                  shall be unlawful to discharge water from cooling systems, pools, spas, fountains boilers and heat
                  exchangers to the storm drain system.

        146.      UNDESIGNATED RETAIL SPACE (PAMC 16.09): Newly constructed or improved buildings with all or a
                  portion of the space with undesignated tenants or future use will need to meet all requirements that
                  would have been applicable during design and construction. If such undesignated retail space becomes
                  a food service facility the following requirements must be met, in addition to other applicable codes:
                  Grease Control Device (GCD) Requirements, PAMC Section 16.09.075; Drainage Fixture Requirements,
                  PAMC Section 16.09.075; Covered Dumpsters, Recycling and Tallow Bin Areas PAMC, 16.09.075(q)(2);
                  Large Item Cleaning Sink, PAMC 16.09.075(m)(2)(B).

        PASSED: 5-3-1
        AYES: Filseth, Fine, Scharff, Tanaka, Wolbach
        NOES: DuBois, Holman, Kou,
        ABSENT:
        ABSTENTIONS: Kniss

        ATTEST:



               City Clerk                                          Mayor


        APPROVED AS TO CONTENT:



               Director of Planning and Community Environment


        APPROVED AS TO FORM:




               Senior Asst. City Attorney

        PLANS AND DRAWINGS REFERENCED:
        Those plans prepared by Jo Bellomo Associates titled “429 University Avenue”, consisting of 24 pages, dated
        October 26, 2016.
DocuSign Envelope ID: 930BD357-2B99-4569-91C1-1551728AD75F


     Exhibit A                             429 University Avenue Project
                                           Mitigation Monitoring Program
             INTRODUCTION

             Section 15097 of the Guidelines for the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) requires
             that, whenever a public agency approves a project based on a Mitigated Negative Declaration
             (MND) or an Environmental Impact Report (EIR), the public agency shall establish a mitigation
             monitoring or reporting program to ensure that all adopted mitigation measures are
             implemented.

             This Mitigation Monitoring Program (MMP) is intended to satisfy this requirement of the
             CEQA Guidelines as it relates to the 429 University Avenue project. This MMP would be used
             by City staff and mitigation monitoring personnel to ensure compliance with mitigation
             measures during project implementation. Mitigation measures identified in this MMP were
             developed in the Initial Study prepared for the proposed project.

             As noted above, the intent of the MMP is to ensure the effective implementation and
             enforcement of all adopted mitigation measures. The MMP will provide for monitoring of
             construction activities, as necessary, and in the field identification and resolution of
             environmental concerns.


             MITIGATION MONITORING PROGRAM DESCRIPTION

             The City of Palo Alto will coordinate monitoring activities and ensure appropriate
             documentation of mitigation measure implementation. The table below identifies each
             mitigation measure for the 429 University Avenue Project and the associated implementation,
             monitoring, timing and performance requirements.

             The MMP table presented on the following pages identifies:

                 1. the full text of each applicable mitigation measure;
                 2. the party or parties responsible for implementation and monitoring of each measure;
                 3. the timing of implementation of each mitigation measure including any ongoing
                    monitoring requirements; and
                 4. performance criteria by which to ensure mitigation requirements have been met.

             Following completion of the monitoring and documentation process, the final monitoring
             results will recorded and incorporated into the project file maintained by the City’s Department
             of Planning and Community Environment.

             It is noted that the mitigation measure numbering reflects the numbering used in the Initial
             Study prepared for the 429 University Avenue Project (Dudek 2014).




             429 University Avenue Project                                                             Page 1
             Mitigation Monitoring Program                                                       January 2015
DocuSign Envelope ID: 930BD357-2B99-4569-91C1-1551728AD75F



                                                                 429 University Avenue Project
                                                                 Mitigation Monitoring Program

           No mitigation measures are required for the following resources:
                  Aesthetics                                              Greenhouse Gas Emissions                          Population and Housing
                  Agricultural Resources                                  Hydrology and Water Quality                       Public Services
                  Air Quality                                             Land Use and Planning                             Recreation
                  Geology, Soils, and Seismicity                          Mineral Resources                                 Utilities and Service Systems


                                                                                   Implementation          Monitoring                                  Performance
                                  Mitigation Measure                                Responsibility        Responsibility          Timing             Evaluation Criteria
                   BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES
          Mitigation Measure BIO-1: The following measures shall be                   Applicant       City of Palo Alto     Prior to issuance of    Approved site
          implemented to reduce impacts to protected trees:                                           Urban Forestry         demolition, grading,     plans reflect
          • City of Palo Alto (City)-approved Modified Type III fencing                               Group/Planning         and building             applicable
          shall be installed for the two street trees to be retained along                            Division Arborist      permits                  conditions
          University Avenue. City-approved tree protection signs shall be                                                   During demolition,      Field inspections
          posted on all fencing.                                                                                             excavation, and          conducted to
                                                                                                                             construction             verify adherence
          • Soil conditions for the four new trees to be planted along
                                                                                                                                                      to conditions
          Kipling Street shall be improved by preparing a planting area at
          least 6 feet square for each tree and installing Silva Cells to
          reduce compaction. The Silva Cells shall be filled with proper
          soil amendments and growing medium as determined by the
          City Arborist.
          • Unless otherwise approved, each new tree shall be provided
          with 1,200 cubic feet of rootable soil area, utilizing Standard
          Drawing #604/513. Rootable soil is defined as compaction
          less than 90% over the area, not including sidewalk base
          areas.
          • Two bubbler drip irrigation units shall be installed for each
          new tree to adequately water the new planting area.
          • New sidewalk shall be installed such that the final planting
          space opening is at least 5 feet by 5 feet for each new tree.


             429 University Avenue Project                                                                                                                     Page 2
             Mitigation Monitoring & Reporting Program                                                                                                   January 2015
DocuSign Envelope ID: 930BD357-2B99-4569-91C1-1551728AD75F



                                                                429 University Avenue Project
                                                                Mitigation Monitoring Program
                                                                               Implementation      Monitoring                                 Performance
                                 Mitigation Measure                             Responsibility    Responsibility           Timing           Evaluation Criteria
          • Kiva tree grates shall be used around each new tree.
          • Replacement tree size shall be a 36-inch box, properly
          structured nursery stock.
          • Based on growth habit and proven performance, Ginkgo
          biloba “Autumn Gold” is highly recommended for the
          replacement trees. Other tree species may be approved by the
          City Arborist.
          • All work within the Tree Protection Zone, including canopy
          pruning of protected trees, shall be supervised by a Certified
          Arborist approved by the City.

                  CULTURAL RESOURCES
          Mitigation Measure CUL-1: Prior to commencement of site                Applicant       City of Palo Alto   Prior to and during    Training materials
          clearing and project grading, the project applicant shall retain a                                         earth disturbance       provided to
          qualified archaeologist to train construction personnel                                                                            construction
          regarding how to recognize cultural resources (such as                                                                             contractors
          structural features, unusual amounts of bone or shell, artifacts,
                                                                                                                                            Field inspections
          human remains, or architectural remains) that could be
                                                                                                                                             conducted to
          encountered during construction activities. If artifacts or
                                                                                                                                             verify compliance
          unusual amounts of shell or bone or other items indicative of
          buried archaeological resources or human remains are
          encountered during earth disturbance associated with the
          proposed project, the on-site contractor shall immediately notify
          the City of Palo Alto (City) and the Native American Heritage
          Commission as appropriate. All soil-disturbing work shall be
          halted within 100 feet of the discovery until a qualified
          archaeologist, as defined by the California Environmental
          Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines (14 CCR 15000 et seq.) and
          the City, completes a significance evaluation of the finds
          pursuant to Section 106 of the National Historic Preservation
          Act. Any human remains unearthed shall be treated in
          accordance with California Health and Safety Code, Section
          7050.5, and California Public Resources Code, Sections
          5097.94, 5097.98, and 5097.99, which include requirements to

             429 University Avenue Project                                                                                                             Page 3
             Mitigation Monitoring & Reporting Program                                                                                           January 2015
DocuSign Envelope ID: 930BD357-2B99-4569-91C1-1551728AD75F



                                                             429 University Avenue Project
                                                             Mitigation Monitoring Program
                                                                           Implementation      Monitoring                                   Performance
                                 Mitigation Measure                         Responsibility    Responsibility            Timing            Evaluation Criteria
          notify the Santa Clara County Medical Examiner’s office and
          consult with Native American representatives determined to be
          the Most Likely Descendants, as appointed by the Native
          American Heritage Commission. Identified cultural resources
          shall be recorded on State Department of Parks and
          Recreation Form 523 (archaeological sites). Mitigation
          measures prescribed by the Native American Heritage
          Commission, the Santa Clara County Medical Examiner’s
          office, and any Native American representatives determined to
          be the Most Likely Descendants and required by the City shall
          be undertaken before construction activities are resumed. If
          disturbance of a project area cultural resource cannot be
          avoided, a mitigation program, including measures set forth in
          the City’s Cultural Resources Management Program and in
          compliance with Sections 15064.5 and 15126.4 of the CEQA
          Guidelines, shall be implemented.

                  HAZARDS AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
          Mitigation Measure HAZ-1: Prior to building demolition, the        Applicant       City of Palo Alto   Prior to issuance of    Building survey
          project applicant shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the                      Department of      demolition permit and   report submitted
          City of Palo Alto that a survey of the existing buildings has                       Planning and       during demolition       LCMs and ACMs
          been conducted by a qualified environmental specialist who                           Community                                 handled by qualified
          meets the requirements of the current U.S. Environmental                            Environment                                contractor and
          Protection Agency regulations for suspected lead-containing
                                                                                                                                         disposed of in
          materials (LCMs), including lead-based paint/coatings;                                                                         accordance with the
          asbestos containing materials (ACMs); and the presence of                                                                      U.S. Environmental
          polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs). Any demolition activities                                                                    Protection Agency’s
          likely to disturb LCMs or ACMs shall be carried out by a
                                                                                                                                         (EPA) Asbestos
          contractor trained and qualified to conduct lead- or asbestos-
                                                                                                                                         National Emissions
          related construction work. If found, LCMs and ACMs shall be
                                                                                                                                         Standards for
          disposed of in accordance with state and federal regulations,                                                                  Hazardous Air
          including the EPA’s Asbestos National Emissions Standards                                                                      Pollutants, the
          for Hazardous Air Pollutants, the Cal-OSHA Construction Lead
                                                                                                                                         California
          Standard (CCR Title 8, Section 1432.1), and California
                                                                                                                                         Occupational Health
          Department of Toxic Substances Control and EPA
                                                                                                                                         and Safety’s

             429 University Avenue Project                                                                                                           Page 4
             Mitigation Monitoring & Reporting Program                                                                                         January 2015
DocuSign Envelope ID: 930BD357-2B99-4569-91C1-1551728AD75F



                                                               429 University Avenue Project
                                                               Mitigation Monitoring Program
                                                                            Implementation      Monitoring                                  Performance
                                 Mitigation Measure                          Responsibility    Responsibility            Timing           Evaluation Criteria
          requirements for disposal of hazardous waste. If PCBs are                                                                      Construction Lead
          found, these materials shall be managed in accordance with                                                                     Standard (CCR Title
          the Metallic Discards Act of 1991 (California Public Resources                                                                 8, Section 1432.1),
          Code, Sections 42160–42185) and other state and federal                                                                        and California
          guidelines and regulations. Demolition plans and contract                                                                      Department of Toxic
          specifications shall incorporate any necessary abatement                                                                       Substances Control
          measures in compliance with the Metallic Discards Act,                                                                         and EPA
          particularly Section 42175, Materials Requiring Special                                                                        requirements for
          Handling, for the removal of mercury switches, PCB-containing                                                                  disposal of
          ballasts, and refrigerants.                                                                                                    hazardous waste.
                                                                                                                                         PCBs, mercury and
                                                                                                                                         other hazardous
                                                                                                                                         building materials
                                                                                                                                         handled by qualified
                                                                                                                                         contractor and
                                                                                                                                         disposed of in
                                                                                                                                         accordance with
                                                                                                                                         applicable
                                                                                                                                         regulations as
                                                                                                                                         identified.

                  NOISE
          Mitigation Measure NOI-1: Residential Uses: Window and              Applicant       City of Palo Alto   Prior to issuance of   Approved building
          exterior door assemblies with Sound Transmission Class                               Department of      building permit        plans shall include
          (STC) rating up to 45 and upgraded exterior walls shall be                           Planning and                              window sound
          used in the residential portion of the proposed building to                           Community                                transmission ratings
          achieve the City’s maximum instantaneous noise guideline for                         Environment                               and interior noise
          residential uses. The City of Palo Alto shall ensure that these                                                                levels verification
          standards are met through review of building plans as a                                                                        from a qualified
          condition of project approval.                                                                                                 acoustical
          Commercial Uses: Window and exterior door assemblies for                                                                       consultant.
          the commercial portions of the building shall have a minimum
          STC rating of 32 at the corner of University Avenue and Kipling
          Street, and a minimum STC of 28 at all other commercial


             429 University Avenue Project                                                                                                           Page 5
             Mitigation Monitoring & Reporting Program                                                                                         January 2015
DocuSign Envelope ID: 930BD357-2B99-4569-91C1-1551728AD75F



                                                                 429 University Avenue Project
                                                                 Mitigation Monitoring Program
                                                                               Implementation      Monitoring                                  Performance
                                  Mitigation Measure                            Responsibility    Responsibility            Timing           Evaluation Criteria
          locations within the proposed building to comply with the State
          of California CalGreen noise standards (maximum interior
          noise level of 50 dB during the peak hour of traffic). The City of
          Palo Alto shall ensure that these standards are met through
          review of building plans as a condition of project approval.
          Mitigation Measure NOI-2: The residential portion of the               Applicant       City of Palo Alto   Prior to issuance of   Approved building
          proposed building shall have a ventilation or air-conditioning                          Department of      building permit        plans shall include
          system to provide a habitable interior environment when                                 Planning and                              details of the
          windows are closed.                                                                      Community                                residential
                                                                                                  Environment                               ventilation system.
          Mitigation Measure NOI-3: Noise levels from rooftop                    Applicant       City of Palo Alto   Prior to issuance of   Approved building
          equipment shall be reduced to meet the City of Palo Alto Noise                          Department of      building permit        plans shall include
          Ordinance requirements. An enclosure or other sound-                                    Planning and                              garage exhaust fan
          attenuation measures at the exhaust fans shall be provided to                            Community                                manufacturer’s
          reduce rooftop equipment noise is no greater than 8 dB above                            Environment                               information
          the existing ambient level at potential future neighboring                                                                        regarding
          buildings to meet the property plane noise limit. Use of quieter                                                                  equipment noise
          equipment than assumed in this analysis may support reduced                                                                       levels and noise
          mitigation, which shall be evaluated by a qualified acoustical                                                                    attenuation details
          consultant.

                  TRANSPORTATION AND TRAFFIC
          Mitigation Measure TRANS-1: Mirrors shall be installed at the          Applicant       City of Palo Alto   Prior to issuance of   Approved building
          parking garage driveway to allow drivers to see when a                                  Department of      building permit        plans shall include
          pedestrian or vehicle is approaching in Lane 30.                                        Planning and                              parking garage
                                                                                                   Community                                mirrors
                                                                                                  Environment
          Mitigation Measure-TRANS-2: Mirrors shall be installed at              Applicant       City of Palo Alto   Prior to issuance of   Approved building
          each turn within the parking garage to provide adequate sight                           Department of      building permit        plans shall include
          distance.                                                                               Planning and                              parking garage
                                                                                                   Community                                mirrors
                                                                                                  Environment



             429 University Avenue Project                                                                                                              Page 6
             Mitigation Monitoring & Reporting Program                                                                                            January 2015
Certificate Of Completion
Envelope Id: 930BD3572B99456991C11551728AD75F                                                    Status: Completed
Subject: Please DocuSign: 429 University ROLUA FINAL.docx
Source Envelope:
Document Pages: 42                              Signatures: 4                                    Envelope Originator:
Supplemental Document Pages: 0                  Initials: 0                                      Yolanda Cervantes
Certificate Pages: 2
AutoNav: Enabled                                Payments: 0                                      250 Hamilton Ave
EnvelopeId Stamping: Enabled                                                                     Palo Alto , CA 94301
Time Zone: (UTC-08:00) Pacific Time (US &                                                        Yolanda.Cervantes@CityofPaloAlto.org
Canada)                                                                                          IP Address: 12.220.157.20

Record Tracking
Status: Original                                Holder: Yolanda Cervantes                        Location: DocuSign
        4/21/2017 3:24:37 PM                              Yolanda.Cervantes@CityofPaloAlto.org

Signer Events                                   Signature                                        Timestamp
Jonathan Lait                                                                                    Sent: 4/21/2017 3:27:20 PM
Jonathan.Lait@cityofpaloalto.org                                                                 Resent: 4/21/2017 3:33:33 PM
Asst. Director Planning and Comm Environment                                                     Viewed: 4/21/2017 3:33:56 PM
City of Palo Alto                                                                                Signed: 4/21/2017 3:34:13 PM
                                                Using IP Address: 12.220.157.20
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication
(None)
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure:
   Not Offered via DocuSign
   ID:

Albert Yang                                                                                      Sent: 4/21/2017 3:34:17 PM
Albert.yang@cityofpaloalto.org                                                                   Viewed: 4/24/2017 8:55:46 AM
Senior Deputy City Attorney                                                                      Signed: 4/24/2017 8:56:17 AM
City of Palo Alto
                                                Using IP Address: 73.254.101.222
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication
(None)
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure:
   Not Offered via DocuSign
   ID:

Greg Scharff                                                                                     Sent: 4/24/2017 8:56:20 AM
greg.scharff@cityofpaloalto.org                                                                  Resent: 4/25/2017 10:47:36 AM
Mayor                                                                                            Viewed: 4/24/2017 3:32:28 PM
City of Palo Alto                                                                                Signed: 4/25/2017 8:27:28 PM
                                                Using IP Address: 71.198.25.55
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication
(None)                                          Signed using mobile
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure:
   Not Offered via DocuSign
   ID:

Beth Minor                                                                                       Sent: 4/25/2017 8:27:32 PM
beth.minor@cityofpaloalto.org                                                                    Viewed: 4/25/2017 9:37:47 PM
City Clerk                                                                                       Signed: 4/25/2017 9:39:10 PM
City of Palo Alto
                                                Using IP Address: 97.84.91.30
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication
(None)                                          Signed using mobile
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure:
   Not Offered via DocuSign
   ID:


In Person Signer Events                         Signature                                        Timestamp
Editor Delivery Events         Status             Timestamp

Agent Delivery Events          Status             Timestamp

Intermediary Delivery Events   Status             Timestamp

Certified Delivery Events      Status             Timestamp

Carbon Copy Events             Status             Timestamp

Notary Events                                     Timestamp

Envelope Summary Events        Status             Timestamps
Envelope Sent                  Hashed/Encrypted   4/25/2017 8:27:32 PM
Certified Delivered            Security Checked   4/25/2017 9:37:47 PM
Signing Complete               Security Checked   4/25/2017 9:39:10 PM
Completed                      Security Checked   4/25/2017 9:39:10 PM

Payment Events                 Status             Timestamps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ST                                                                                                                             0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                         30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             58




                                                                                                                                                                                                            32




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   35
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    50
                                                                                                            46                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 25




                                                                                                                                                                                              .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           11 2.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '
                                                                                                                                                                                           50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .0                                                                                                                                                         .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             11
            UE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '                                                                                                                                                          '
                                                                                                                     0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      65
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5
          EN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      35
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               12 5.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0




                                                                                                                                                                               '
                                                                                                                                                                             .5
                                                                                                                                                                           3.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5.0 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .0
                                                                                                                                                                          12
                                                                                                                                                                                 '                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1'0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   57




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  92
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CD-C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               50
        AV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.5 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               11 2.5
                                                                                                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                O
                                                 '
                                                                                                                                                                                 28 5.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10 0.0




               RMD
                                                                       45
                                               .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                97




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 11
                                            56
                                                                                              97 .0'                                                                               .0 '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0 '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            35
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0
                                                                               6                                                                                                     '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '
                                                                                                .0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 34 2-
                                                                                                  '
   T




                                                                                                                                               .5 '
                                                                                                                                             62 56.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  33
ET




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2
                                                      45                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EE




                                                                                                                                                 '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                                                                                                                               50                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                             50 .0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5.0
                                                              2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .0
                                                                                                                                                                                          7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              11
                                                                                                                                                                                                               .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   65
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8.0
                                                                                                                                                                                     32
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '
                                                                                                                              3.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             10 0.0                      56




                                                                                                                                  '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7




                                                                                                                            6.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .0
                                                                                   - 3 05
                                                                                                                            3.0 '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Al




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          75
                                                                                                                                             1
                                                              10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0
                                                                                                                               '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           53

                                                                                      13
                                                                 0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '




                                                                                                                                      32
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ain
                                                                                      3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0




                                                                                                                                                   2.5 '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '
                                                                       '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .0
                                                                                                                                                 11 2.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             40                                                                                                                                                                11




                                                                                                                                                      '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .0                                                                                                                                                                8.0




                                                                                                                                                   11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.5
                                                                                                            50 .0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '




                                                                                                                '
                                                                                                              50
                                                                                                              .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10




                                                                                                                                                                                     5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0




                                                                                                                                                                              32
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  48




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (P)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 49 9-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      55                                                                                                                                                             56




               (NP)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         36
                                                                                                                                                                                           2.5 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             26




                                                                                                                                                                                         11 2.5
                                                                                                            25                                                                                                                                                                      60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5                                                                                                                                                                8




                                                                                                                                                                                              '
                              10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5.0 '
                                                                                                               .0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        22 5.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .0




                                                                                                                                                                                           11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3
                                 0.0                                                                             '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '                                                                                  10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  33
                                       '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         75




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                50
                                                                                                                                      50                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2.5 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       11 2.5
                                                                                                                                         .0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10 0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                                           '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0 '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '
         31 2-




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                56




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .5
          30




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        46




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 62
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4
           6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          33 5-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              13




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            11 8.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           33
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              8.0 '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            UE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7
                                                                                    50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             10
                                                                                                                                                                            40                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                       .0
                                                                                                                                   KI                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                                                                                               .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .0
                                                                                         '                                                                                       '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 10
                                                                                                                                      PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2.5
                                                 '
                                               .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10 0.0
                                            75




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       35                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0 '
                                                                                                                                        IN                                                                                                                                                .0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       63                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                                                                G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  46                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             55
                                            '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .
                                     2.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           50
                                                                                                                         50                                                                                       60
                                                                                                                            .0
                                                                                                                                                                            ST                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3 2.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3
                                  11




                                                                                                                              '                                                                                      .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          35 49
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      48




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                                                              RE                                                                                                                                     8.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 10
                                                     0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    48 2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              T


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                32




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ET                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                30




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                62 .5'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               83
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0                                                                 .0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '
                                                                        2.5 '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  62




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .5
                                                                      11 2.5




                                                                                                                                                           37                                                                                                                                                                     .0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ER
               '




                                                                           '
             .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              62
                                                                                                                                                              .5                                                                                   35                                                                               '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                                        11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
          50




                                                                                                                                                                '                                                                                     .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  54
                                                                                                                                      0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       45
                                                                                        8



                                                                                                                                  33




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6
                                                                                   32




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      UN
                       50                                                                                                                                                             37




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.5 '
                     50 .0'                                                                                                                                                              .5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      11 2.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10
                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              45                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           52
                                                                                                          2.5 '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                        11 2.5




                       .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10 0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        11
                                                                                                             '




                         '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5                                                                                                                                                                            0.0 '
                                                                                                          11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 83
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '                                         PE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2.5 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              54




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            11 2.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  53 63
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      53




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         62




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .0 .0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                    2.5 '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ST                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0B
                                                                                                                                  11 2.5




                                                       50
                                                                                                                                       '




                                                     50 .0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   26




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5.0
                                                                                                                                    11




                                                       .0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               22
                                                         '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10
                                                                                                                                                                                                    8
                                                                                                                                                                                       '
                                                                                                                                                       0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        53
                                                                                                                                                                                     .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          42
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                              4
                                                                                                                                               34

                                                                                                                                                                                  75




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               UE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0A                                   2.5 '
                                                                                                                                                                                           -3
                                                                                                        2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   40 30.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              T
                                                                                                                                                                          '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2.5
                                                                                                                                                                  2.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '
                                                                                                      33




                                                                                                                                                                                      4




                                                                                            37                                                                                                                                                              88                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .0 '                                                                                                                                                         50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               11
                                                                                                                                                                                                     75 .0'
                                                                                                                                                               11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .0
                                                                                                                                                                                   34




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   53




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EN
          2.5 '




                                                                                               .5                                                                                                                                                              .0
        11 2.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                                                                                                                       75
                                                                                                                                                                                                       .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             50
                                                                                            50 '                                                                                                                                                                 '
             '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
          11




                                                                                                .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PC-3
                                                                                                  '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AV
                                                                                                                                                                  30




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        40
                                                                                                                                                                30 .0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         20
                                                                                                                                                                  .0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            50                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      10
                       7




                                                                                                                  37




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.5 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             43




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   11 2.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ' .5 '
                                                                                                                                                                    '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 10 2.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C
                                                                                                                     .5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '
                     32




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                                                                '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        52
                                                                                                                                              .5




                                                                                                                       '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0 12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.5 '
                                                                                                                                           37
                                        2.5 '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 13 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               8
                                      11 2.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                           '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  tW
                                                                                                                              50
                                        11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .0
                                                                                                                                 .0 25                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                   '   .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                44




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      50 .0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 53




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             41
                                                                                                                                         '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2.5 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        51




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                11 2.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .0
                                                  3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LY


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6
                                                33




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2.5 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       11 2.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Lo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           15
                                                                                                                                                    '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3
                                                                                                                                                  .5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         11
  '
                                                                             2.5 '
                                                                           11 2.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              42
                                                                                                                                               12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            13
                                                                                '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -4                                                                                                                                                                                          50
                                                                                                                                                 21                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0
                                                                             11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1-




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5.0




                                                                                                                                                    .5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .0
                                                                                                                                                      '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            40




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              48
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          42




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.5 '
                                                                                        37 3-




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               11 2.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                                                               21 .5'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 11
                                                                                         37
                                                                                          7




                                                                                                                                                   '




                                                                                                                                                                                  93


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    94969
                                                                                                                                                 21




                         50
                                                                                                                                                 .5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       36




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3
                            .0                                                                                                                                                       .0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              36 .0'                            14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              43
                              '                                                                                                                                                        '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .0
                                                                                                                      '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   11
                                                                                                              0.0 2.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .0                                   '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .5
                                                                                                                                                                                      71                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  13                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                            10 11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        17
  RE                                                                                                                                                                                     .5
                                                                                                                 '




                                                                                                                                                                                           '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        50                                                                                                                                                     39 25                                                                                13 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .0 .0
                                                                                                                                             30.4'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .0
                                                                                                                                             30.4'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '                                                                                 0.0 '
                                                                                                                                                                              41                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '                                                                                                                                                         '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .0 2.5
            ET                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PF
                                                                                                                                                                                     1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  95 11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Lo
                                                              50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          51
                                                                 .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        47
                                                                                                             5




                                                                   '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .0
                                                                                                           38




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               37 .5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         tT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 37
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .5
                                                                                                                                                                      50                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      43


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '
                                                                                                                                                                                                         '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       KI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                       .0




                                                                                                                                                                    50 .0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     75




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                                    43




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .0
                                                                                                                                                  4 .0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4.0                                                                                                                                      '
                                                                                                                           57 .0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       95




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           10
   5'
                                                                                                                                                40 07                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '
                                                                                                                               '
                                                                                                                             57
                                                                                                                             .0




                                                                                                  43                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      18
                                                                                                     .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IN
                                                                                                       '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '
                                                                                                                                                  5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               47




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3
                                                                                                                                             40                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    G                                              36




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     44
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .0
                                                                                                                                                1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              45
                                                                                                                                                                         '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -2
                                                                                                                                                                       .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   53
                                                                                                                                  50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RE                                                                                                                                                               12                                                                                                                                                                                  72
                                                                                                                                                                    57




                                                                                                                                     .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5.0                                                                                                                                                                                 .5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '
                                                                                                                                       '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             05531
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              93
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ET




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         75
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   75




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  57                                                                                            7.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '                                                                                                                                                                     50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .0                                                                          .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '                                                                                46            '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .0
                                                         14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7-11                                                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7.0 .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5.5




                                                            3.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               46




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10 107
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -4
                                                                  '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            16                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      10 7.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7.0 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   48                                                                                                                    CO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 75
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  49 0-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     40




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            45                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      45                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             43




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8                                                                                                                                          PE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  54
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                37                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5




                                                    37                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 40




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     15 0.0
                                                          9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        37
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5.5 '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10 5.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      93
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   44




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    UE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       21




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       de
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                41




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          72                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      90
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0-




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        72 .5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         n                                                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5.5 '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         10 5.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EN
                                                                                        '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       44




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '
                                                                                  0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           11                                                                                                                                                                                               '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Co
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  75
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      46
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                                               10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                42




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ur




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    75
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     47 0-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           44




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          t_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          21




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               7                                                                                                                                                                       6                                                                                                                               Ho
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          59
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '




                                    43                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5.5




                                  43 .0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             37                                                                                                                                                    45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  44                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .5                                                                                                                                               45 .0'
                                                                                                                                                                                 6



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         10




                                    .0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    t     el
         50 .0'




                                      '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '
             '
           50
           .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           43




                       36
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   30
                                                                                                                                                       43




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      25




                         9                                                                                                                                                                              93
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                           .0                                                                                                              37                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   90




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                42                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        41




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      72                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 52
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         75
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  E7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AV                                     '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   72 .5'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .0                                                                                      '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4N4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                11                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '
                                                                                                                                       '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .5
                                                                                                                                     5.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '
                                      '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1
                                    .0




            43                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                11 0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         25
                                 50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           42
                                                                                                                                  10




               .0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.0 '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .0
                                                                                                                                   -4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       UN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             75




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         53
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9




                                                                                                                                                  39                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                50                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   80




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       43




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   7.0 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 10 7.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .0                                                                                                                                                             11 0.0                                                                                                                                                                                           80 .0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5.0
                                                                                                                                                           0                                                                                                                                                                                                         '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             42
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.0 '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '                                                                                                                                                                                               '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ST                                                                                                                                                                          11 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                           PC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       93




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              54
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           43
               '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RE
             .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        41110.00'.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '
          50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          45 6-




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         10 .0 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             45




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ET                                                                                                                                           41                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  25




                                                                                                               43                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .0                                                        .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      44 43




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '
                                                                                                 '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                12 7.5
                                                                                               .5




                                                                                                                                                                                                          5.5 '




                                                                                                                  .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                        10 5.5




                                                                                                      36                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           41 7
                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                            33




                                                                                                                                                                                                             '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               7.5 '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                          10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4




                                                                                                            6                       93                                                                                                                                                           50                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         49




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .0




                                                                                                                                       .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  455050.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  42 6-




                                                                                                                                         '                                                                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .0 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  50 .0




                                                                                                43                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 41 .0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   41




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4




                                                                                              43 .0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .0
                                                                                                                          '
                                                                                                                        .5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .0
                                                                                                .0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         10 .0 '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '
                                                                                                                     33




                                                                                                  '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0                                                                                                                                                                                      8 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5.5 '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10 5.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             43 0.0' '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                55




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               45




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .0
    UE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6
                                                           '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        45
                                                         .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               42




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0
                                                      79




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   7403




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  93
  EN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          50
                                                              1




                                                                                                                                                                                         5
                                                                                                                                                                                       15 0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 42                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                93 .0'
                                                                                                        '
                                                                                                    2.5
                                                         40




                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0 '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8
                                                                                                 11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5.5 '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10 5.5




                                                                                                                                                                                            '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0
AV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '
                                                                                        '
                                                                                      .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               20 105.5 436




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                46
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '
                                                                                   79




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       93
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Un
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .0
                                                                                                                     tF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  tH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .0




                                                43                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               50




                                                   .0
                                                     '                                                                                                                                                                             50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               93
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EA '

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  15




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ion
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              93 .0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      48
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                25
                                                                                                        Lo




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Lo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               13                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     48 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      70




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .0
 )




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      46




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        45

                                                                                                                                    PF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ba                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     45                                                                                                                            13                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   45 .0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 13 5.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          70                                        '
                            0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .0                                                                                                                            5.0 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0                                                                                          .0
                          40




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     nk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 93




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CD-C(GF)(P)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  38
                                                                                                                                  5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               93 .0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                            41




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    13




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0 12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LA




                                93
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       25




                                   .0                                                                                15                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           13 5.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        50                                                                                                                                                                                                 '
         33                                                                                                             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5.0 '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .0
                                     '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .0                                                           10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2.5 '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                11 .0 '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       50
                                                                                                                              '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 11 2.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0
               2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       37
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .0




                                                                                    FL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9                                                                                                                                                         7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 43




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   50 .0'
 30




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 UE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4743.0' '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .0
                                                                                       OR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            80                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         93




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    93 .0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                        8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.5




                                                                                          E
                     40




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            13 5.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            19                                                                  '
                                                                                                               NC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           37                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                  43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5.0 '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                             1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3.0




                                                                                    5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .0
                                                                                        0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          43
                                                                                                                                                                                                        43




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            50
                                           2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      14




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8.0




                                                                                           '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AV
                                 41




                                                                                                                  E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3.0
                                                  '




   0'
                                                .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        13 5.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.0




                                                                                                                                  ST
                                             75




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 93
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            19




                                                                                                                                                                                                   45                                                                                                                                     5.0 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5
                                                         8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                      .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             36




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '
                                                    41




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '
                                                                                                                                     RE                                                                 '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     70                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       93
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      43                                                                                                                                                                                            50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
                                            '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .0
                                     2.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Al
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '
                                                                                                                                        E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       14




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          50




                                                                                                  Legend
                                  11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       lS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '
                                                                                                                                                              T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  55




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    95




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     38                                  '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ai
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 nt




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         39                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        s_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            46




                                                                                                                                                       13
                                                                        2.5 '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           HA
                                                                      11 2.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '




                                                                                                                                                          5.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      E
                '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .0
                                                                           '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6
              .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5 02




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               35                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     50
                                                                        11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    25
           50




                                                                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             pis
                                 0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     50 06




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5                                                                                                                                                 3                                                                                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5
                               42




                       Pa Bry                                                                                                                   Special Setback Frontages                                                 80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         95
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  co
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7-382                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      95 .0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ER
           '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     pa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '
         .5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .0




                       50                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .0
      12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     25




                     50 .0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LE                                                                                                                                                                     l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .0




                       .0
                                                                                                                                                                                  35                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ch
                          rk an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       50




                         '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   95
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                                                                     3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           95 .0'                                                                                            40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Y                                                                                                                                                                                         ur
                                                                                                                                                Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .0                                                                                                 .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        37
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       30




                            in t /                                                                                                                                                                              37
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    95
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             95 .0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RE
                              g L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  42



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3.0
                                                                                                                                                School                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     37
                               Ga yt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            34
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         95
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .0




                                      t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                11




                                                                                                                                                                                                          36
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     UE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                95 .0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  25




 -4611                              ag on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10
                                                                            5




                                                                                                                                                                                                             '




                                   rabc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                           .5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                               '
                                                                       44




                                                                                                                                                                                                        74




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         51
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '

                                                                                                                                                Building Roof Outline                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EN



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                92




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3.0 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    12 3.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                   36                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .0

                                                                                                                                                                                                   C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   30




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      12




                     Lo               e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AV




                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                          T




                                                                                                                                                                       33
                                                                                                                                                                                                       VS
                                                                                                                                                       ES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6




                                                                                                                                                                          9
                        tS                                                                                                                      Underly ing 33Lot           Line
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        52
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      20
                                                                                                                                                                              '
                                                                                                                                                                            .5
                                                                                                                                               W
                                                                                                                                           20 18.0'
                                                                                                                                                                         25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3.0 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12 3.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         33                                                                                                                                                                50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '




                                                                                                                                                                                                        35 P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .0
                                                                                                                                      2




                                                                                                                                                                     7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '                                                                                                                                                                 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                  33
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ha
                                                                                                                                           '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              55
                                                                                                                                         .0




                                                                                                            abc                                 Easement 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.0 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   55
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .0
                                                                                                                        NE
                                                                                                                                      25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VE




                                                                                                                                                                                                          2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            74




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0-




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .0
                                                                                                                                                                                              34
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    rm




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  50
                                                                                                                                                                                                     10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    55




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         50
                                                                                                                 LA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I




                                                                                                                                                                                                 0 10 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3.0 '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12 3.0
                                                                                                                      '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          UN
                                                                                                                    .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8




                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0 '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                 25




                                                                                                                                                              32
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     51




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          12


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   55




                                                                                                                                                                                                        '

                                                                                                           abc                                  Lot Dimensions                                                            ac
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .7'




                         15
                            0.0                                                                                                                             32 3                    10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   18                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0




                                                                                                                                                                                  10 0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               18 5.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             37




                                  '
                                                                                                                                                        31 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      56




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '




                                                                                                                                                                                    0.0 '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5.0 '

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3.0
                                                                                                                               '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .7'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '
                                                                                                                             .0




                                                                                                                                                           9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            25




                                                                                                                                                                                       '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                                          25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  34
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           70
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        15 0.0
                                                                                                                                                       31
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3.0 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        64




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          12 3.0




                                                                                                                                                                        10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .0

                                                                                                                                                Zone Districts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                                                          7                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            12




                                                                                                                                                                        95 .0 '              33                                                                                                                                                                                                   12                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5.0
                                                                                                                                                                          .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                25




                                                                                                                                                                             '                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                         .0




                                                                               15                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '




                                                                                                                                                    95
                                                                                                      50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .8




                                                                                  .0                                                              95 .0'                                  32
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    58




                                                                                                            abc                                 Zone District Labels3 324 3 8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                68




                                                                                    '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .0




                                                                                                                                                    .0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '
                                                                                    '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .0
                                                                                 7.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 25




                                                                                                                                                      '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  37
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .0




                                                                                                                                                                                    2  26
                                                                                                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                                                                                                                  .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     64




                                                                                                                                                                                32 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5
                                                                                                                                                                                               25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3.0




                                                                                                          7
                                                                                                        City                                   Jurisdictional         Limits:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                12 5.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               19




                                                                                                                                                3                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5.0 '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3.0
                                                                                                                                                  01                          31 0
                                                                                                                        95                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .0




                                                                                                                           .0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        60
                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5


                                                                                                                                                                                8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Lo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 63
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             64
                                                                                                                                                                               '
                                                                                                                                                                             .0




                                                                                                                                                        Palo         Alto314 City Boundary
                                                                                                                                                                          50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         tD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PF
                                                                                                                                                             31
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          19




                                                                                                                                                                2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    20




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          74




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       12 5.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0

                                                                                                                                                Tree                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0




                                                                               10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5.0 '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               20 0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '
                                                                                                                                                                       31
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '
                            '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               8.1
                          .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AV
                                                                                  0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.0 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '
                       75




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3.0




                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            15




                                                                                        '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      64




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                - 6 53




                                                                                                                                                Project Site300
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  L
NE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   81
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '




                                                                  28
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  22




                                                                           1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    70
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -3




                                       7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              21




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             P
      '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ST
    .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         38 ost
 25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 52




                                  10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0 9 O                                                                                                                                                      50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               43 ffi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PC




                                10 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                   '




                                  0.0 '
                                                                                                 .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0 1 ce
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        22
                                                                                              75




                                     '                                                                                                                                                                                                                             12
                                  27                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '




                       10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7
                     10 0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '
                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  60


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -4
                       0.0 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .0
                          '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  47




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                19 345                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  This map is a product of the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7




                25                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              23                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                   '




               26 9-
                                                                 .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                62
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3




                                                                                                                                                 PAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        23 .5'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '
                                                              25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   53




                                                                                                                                               OF 278O
                                                                                                                                                                 '
                                                                                                                                                               .7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .5
                 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5.5 '
                                                                                                                                                            60




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        10 5.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3.5'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          City of Palo Alto GIS
  0.0                                                                                                                                                                    P O R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10




                                                                                                                                                               R                       A                                    '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              60 20                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     50
  0' '                                                                                                                                                 O                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .0 0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '




                                                                                                                                                                                           T                                                                                                                                            60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8.0




                                                                                                                                                   C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '
                                                                                                                        C I TY




                                                                                                                                                                                                     AL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8.0




                                                                                                                                                                        27                                                                                                                                                                 .0                                                                                                                                                                               '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       30 .5'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '
                                                '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .0
                                              .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         30
                                                                                                                                           N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .5
                                                                                                                                                                                                   E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   15




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6




                                                                                                                                                                             6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            76
                                           50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               63
                                                                                                                                                                                                        D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .0
                                                                                                                                       I




                                                                                                                                                                                                       TO    4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5.5 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                        51




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10 5.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               34
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '




                                                                                                                                                                          7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '




                                                                                                                                               27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             34 .0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           YA
                                                                                                                               '
                                                                                                                             .3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       429 University Avenue
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           53 5-




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .0
                                                                                                                          49




                                                                                                                                                                                10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       12




                                                                                                                                                       4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6




                                                                                                                                                                              10 0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            53




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       51




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         64




                                                                                                                                                                                0.0 '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       80                                                                                                                                                                                                                '
                                                                                                                                                                                   '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          15 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   32
                                                                                                                                      A




                                                                                                                                                                                                        4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            60                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    60




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5.5 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  64




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5
                                                                                                                                           P




                                                                                                                                                                                                    9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        10 5.5




                                                                                                                                             R                                                                                                                                              .0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '
               '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '
             .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                    8                                                                                                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '
                                                                                                                                      AL
                                                                                                                                                   I
          70




                                                                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            43




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         54




                                                                                                                                                       L
                                                                                                                                                                                                    A




                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                  C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3.1 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           12 3.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                tG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         [18PLN-00240]
                                                                                                                                                                        1 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '




                                                                                                                                                           I F OR N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             12




                                                                                                                                             10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   54




                                                                                                                                                0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                T                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0




                                                                                                                                                       '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            15                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Lo




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          60                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                                                                                                                       .3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    49




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        55




                                                                                                  T h e                                                     C i t y                                                                o f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     56




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '



                                                                                                      Palo A lt o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              21




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0'                                                                                                                     1 48 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7




                                                            apeters, 2018-07-24 12:25:00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     This document is a graphic representation only of best available sources.
                                                            (\\cc-maps\Encompass\Admin\Personal\Planning.mdb)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         The City of Palo Alto assumes no responsibility for any errors ©1989 to 2016 City of Palo Alto
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        21




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1
From:               Lait, Jonathan
To:                 Elizabeth Wong (elizabethwong2009@gmail.com)
Subject:            429 University Avenue
Date:               Friday, October 12, 2018 5:01:26 PM


Dear Elizabeth,

I write in advance of issuing a Director’s decision for the subject Architectural Review application.
Following the Architectural Review Board’s October 4, 2018 recommendation, I am prepared to
partially approve the application with respect to the decorative element on the southern elevation
and landscaping plan, and partially deny the application with respect to the exterior building
materials, colors, and craftsmanship. As currently presented, the exterior materials, colors, and
craftsmanship are not consistent with Architectural Review findings 2 and 3 (see below).

However, I believe a few simple changes may be effective to address ARB’s concerns and allow me
to make the required findings. For example, the following changes would add textures, colors, and
details more compatible with the highly ornamented character of the surrounding area:

       Addition of sun shades or awnings along the University Ave frontage
       Recessing the ground floor glass façade by 18-24” on the University Avenue (with removed
       floor area added to second floor)
       Adding texture to the exterior concrete on the first and second floors that recognizes the high
       level of detail on surrounding buildings.

If you are amenable to incorporating some or all of these changes, I would seek recommendation of
approval from the ARB on the updated design prior to issuing my decision. I believe the ARB’s
support is important for the ultimate success of your project. Please contact me by 650 329-2679 if
you are interested in pursuing this path for your application.

Jonathan

Relevant ARB Findings
Finding #2: The project has a unified and coherent design, that:

    a. creates an internal sense of order and desirable environment for occupants, visitors, and the general
       community,
   b. preserves, respects and integrates existing natural features that contribute positively to the site and the
       historic character including historic resources of the area when relevant,
   c. is consistent with the context-based design criteria of the applicable zone district,
   d. provides harmonious transitions in scale, mass and character to adjacent land uses and land use designations,
   e. enhances living conditions on the site (if it includes residential uses) and in adjacent residential areas.

Finding #3: The design is of high aesthetic quality, using high quality, integrated materials and appropriate
construction techniques, and incorporating textures, colors, and other details that are compatible with and enhance
the surrounding area.
Attachment G
                     SUPPLEMENT TO APPEAL FROM KIPLING POST LP FOR
                           429 UNIVERSITY AVENUE, PALO ALTO
                                   November 29, 2018



This submission supplements the form appeal timely submitted by Kipling Post.

The primary issue on appeal concerns compliance with Condition of Approval No. 3, as
established by the City Council’s February 2017 approval of the project.

The Planning Director asserts that one element of that condition, i.e., sign off on “exterior
building materials, colors and craftmanship-related detailing” has not been satisfied.

Kipling Post appeals that determination by the Planning Director because it is in error, lacks
substantial evidence, is inconsistent with the previous findings of the City Council, exceeds the
scope of the condition established by the City Council and wrongly relies on elements of the
Municipal Code that apply to new applications, not condition compliance.

Further detail is provided below.

Approval No. 2017-2, Condition of Approval No. 3 states, in relevant part:

“. . . the applicant shall return to the ARB for approval of the following items, to the satisfaction
of the Director of Planning and Community Environment:

...

c. The exterior building materials, colors and craftsmanship-related detailing associated with
the project.



The Approval No. 2017-2 – Record of the Council of the City of Palo Alto Land Use Action for
425 and 429 University Avenue: Major Architectural Review Application [14PLN-00222] (“Land
Use Approval”) on p. 12 states that:

       Finding #3: The design is of high aesthetic quality, using high quality, integrated
       materials and appropriate construction techniques, and incorporating textures, colors,
       and other details that are compatible with and enhance the surrounding area.

       The project is consistent with Finding #3 because:

       The project has a high aesthetic quality, materials, construction techniques, textures,
       colors and other details that are compatible with and enhance the surrounding area.
       The buildings surrounding the site are comprised of concrete, stone, glass, brick, and
       metal and range in height from two to four stories along University Avenue. Along
       Kipling Street, buildings consist of cement, stucco, glass and brick structures. The


                                                                                                Page 1
       proposed structure is comprised of high quality glass, concrete and steel design which is
       similar and representative of the materials found in the surrounding environment.
       Further, the materials, textures, and attention to detail in the structure is consistent
       throughout each elevation which represents a high quality aesthetic design. Lastly, the
       project, will have high quality materials, textures, colors and finishes because it is
       conditioned to return to the Architectural Review Board for review and recommendation
       to the Director of Planning and Community Environment of the exterior building
       materials, colors and craftsmanship-related detailing associated with the project.
       Therefore, the project is consistent with Finding #3 because it consists of a high quality
       aesthetic design with integrated materials, textures, colors and other details that are
       compatible with the surrounding environment.

Kipling Post engaged the Palo Alto architectural firm of Ko Architects to prepare construction
plans for the approved project that would reflect Option 1 as approved, and to meet the
additional requirements set forth in Condition No. 3.

Kipling Post has done that. The Planning Director agreed that Kipling Post has complied with the
first two elements of Condition of Approval No. 3. The only disagreement before the City
Council is the additional requirements added with respect to “exterior building materials, colors
and craftsmanship-related detailing associated with the project.”

The Planning Director asserts in his staff report that “the project does not comply with the
contextual and compatibility criteria of the municipal code in that it does not share general
characteristics or establish design linkages with the overall pattern of development.
Surrounding buildings have design elements and material detailing that are human-scaled,
regardless of the overall building envelope.”

The Planning Director has erred in this determination. In its 2017 approval, the City Council
already has determined that the project is compatible with the surrounding area and
development. Therefore, demanding that the project be redesigned or add design or material
elements to achieve compatibility misunderstands the scope of Condition of Approval No. 3.

The Planning Director has no authority to demand these items if they undermine the design and
architecture already approved or require material changes to that design.



THE PROJECT IS FULLY COMPLIANT WITH CONDITION OF APPROVAL NO. 3, SUBSECTION C.

The third element of Condition of Approval No. 3 merely requires that any exterior building
materials, colors and craftsmanship-related detailing be consistent with the Findings of the City
Council in its February 2017 approval.

Other than the elements added as required in subsections a and b of Condition of Approval No.
3, Kipling Post has not added exterior building materials or other craftsmanship detail to the
project. Subsection c does not require the addition of exterior building materials other than


                                                                                            Page 2
specified in subsections a and b, and the Planning Director has ruled that the project has met
those requirements.

The Planning Director, apparently at the urging of the ARB, now misinterprets this Condition of
Approval as requiring the application of exterior building materials, even when the application
of such materials is not required by the design approved by the City Council in 2017, and even
when adding such materials requested by the Planning Director would require a re-design of
the approved project, and would undermine the architectural and design aesthetic approved by
the City Council and deemed compatible with the surrounding area by the Council.

In preparing for the additional, limited ARB review, Ko Architects responded to ARB concerns at
every step with the concurrence of the Planning Director regarding building materials, color and
how the craftsmanship of the building was reflected in the many details of the construction. Ko
Architects also presented materials boards with different color palettes and how the various
materials come together. The Planning Director initially agreed that Kipling Post had met this
Condition as reflected in the staff reports’ recommendations to ARB for approval prepared by
the Planning Director for each of the three ARB Minor Level hearings related to this issue.

In compliance with Condition of Approval No. 3, Ko Architects created a new materials board,
photo attached. The board included samples of the metal and glass, and sample materials and
colors for cement, stucco, and paint. The two colors, “sandstone” and “silversmoke” were
similar to those from the immediately adjacent building at 423 University. The materials board
and its contents is documented in the staff report prepared by Planning for this ARB hearing.
This materials board was submitted to Planning on March 2, 2018, and it was recommended by
Planning for its approval to the ARB at its first Minor Level hearing on August 16, 2018. At that
hearing the ARB wanted to see lighter colors in the concrete, stucco and paint colors.

The materials board was revised by Ko Architects for the second ARB Minor Level hearing on
September 20, 2018, to include an option for a lighter palette at the request of the ARB, using
“San Diego buff” and “pewter” as the two colors. At the hearing, Ko Architects recommended
the darker hues with the explanation that the concrete colors would look different depending
on the lighting, and that integral color concrete would naturally lighten over time. The ARB was
given the choice of either and we would abide by their choice. [SLIDE 1]

Interestingly, at this second ARB hearing, two of the three voting members, Chair Lew and
Member Gooyer were not opposed to the building exterior materials, color and craftsmanship-
related detailing.

This fact was ignored by Interim Director Lait in his decision to deny the project. Member
Gooyer’s quote on pager 36 of the Draft Minutes published by the City is:

       “As far as the exterior building materials, it’s a little hard to tell. I mean I’m guessing it’s
       probably okay. The detailing, I’m sure I probably there. I could go either way on that. I
       don’t really think that the upper story, at least from what I see relates to the rest of the
       building, but again, so even if I say I could accept the exterior building materials, color
       and craftsmanship, one out of three[3a, 3b and 3c] just really doesn’t do it for me.”

                                                                                                 Page 3
At the third ARB Minor Level hearing on October 4, 2018, concrete contractor Bill Brown, of Bill
Brown Construction [specialist in architectural concrete construction] who did the concrete
work at 102 University, was brought in to address the ARB and to answer any questions. He
explained that the concrete is a natural material, that the concrete color changes over time and
looks different depending on the light and the time of day, and that this can be seen at 102
University, which is 10 years old. Both he and Ko Architects recommended to use the original
hues of the first materials board as integral color concrete does lighten over time. Member
Thompson could accept the materials and colors of both materials boards; she could not agree
to them based on compatibility with adjacent construction.

The use of architectural, finished concrete did not surface as an issue generally in the process
until the past few weeks. Interim Planning Director Lait’s request for changes to the surface of
the concrete did not surface until October 12, 2018, only four days before his Determination
Letter was due and issued, and nearly two years after the architectural concrete building in
Option 1 was approved by the City Council.

When the City Council approved Option 1, it did not have the benefit of a materials board that
reflected the exterior building materials, colors and craftsmanship-related detailing. Returning
to the ARB was intended to simply ensure that the project check-in to tweak minor details.
Indeed, that is in part why Interim Director Lait submitted the project for ARB review as a
“minor” review. Despite this, ARB viewed this re-review as an opportunity to revisit
fundamental design issues that have already been approved.

The project has met all aspects of Condition of Approval No. 3, and Kipling Post asks the City
Council to sign off on that Condition.



THE PROJECT DESIGN FOLLOWS THE ACCLAIMED 102 UNIVERSITY AVENUE BUILDING AND
THE CITY COUNCIL DETERMINED IN 2017 THAT THE PROJECT “HAS A HIGH AESTHETIC
QUALITY, MATERIALS, CONSTRUCTION TECHNIQUES, TEXTURES, COLORS AND OTHER DETAILS
THAT ARE COMPATIBLE WITH AND ENHANCE THE SURROUNDING AREA”

On February 6, 2017, the City Council approved the project at 429 University Avenue
(presented as Option 1 by Palo Alto architect Joseph Bellomo). As set forth below, the City
Council made findings that the project has a high aesthetic quality (and use of materials) and
that the project is compatible with and will enhance the surrounding area. The City Council
added Condition of Approval 3 simply to ensure that additional exterior building materials,
colors and craftsmanship-related detailing did not detract from this.

The scope of the additional ARB review (and Planning Director approval) as set by Condition of
Approval 3 is very narrow. It did not invite the ARB or the Planning Director to reconsider
fundamental design or architectural elements. Rather, the condition focused on detail added
to the exterior of the building and color.

                                                                                           Page 4
Because of the nature of the building, other than color, there was little for the ARB or Planning
Director to review. As the City Council is aware, the building design follows the architecturally
acclaimed design at 102 University Avenue. Like that structure, 429 University is designed as a
contemporary building of “architectural concrete,” glass and steel. The concrete is both
structural in function and decorative in appearance. “Architectural” or “finished” concrete has
become a signature element of many contemporary structures. Within the architectural
community, the design approach is viewed as more authentic.

Thus, unlike many structures, there are few exterior building material issues to consider – those
materials are fixed by the type of modern design that already has been approved by the City
Council. There is no cladding, stone, stucco, sheetrock or paint to hide the concrete surface
itself. Utilities such as electrical conduits and water lines are carefully planned to minimize
perforations and surface installations later. In addition, the engineering itself must be
integrated with the concrete, which provides strength, seismic resistance, and support for the
steel and glass storefronts, doors and windows. Consequently, the integrated architecture,
design and concrete installation are vital to the building’s soundness.

Likewise, exterior materials cannot be added that will undermine the structure’s integrity,
soundness, strength or aesthetic.

The concrete chemistry renders it waterproof. The concrete surface is smooth with a pattern of
dots created by the snap-ties used in preparing the forms. As stated by concrete contractor Bill
Brown at an ARB meeting, they build fine furniture and then carefully fill it with concrete to
attain that specific aesthetic. Integral color organic pigments will be added to the concrete mix.
As can be seen at 102 University Avenue (now 10 years old), the color naturally evolves over
time.

In sum, the nature of this building means that there will be very limited additional exterior
building materials, colors and craftsmanship-related detailing to consider when compared to a
more traditional building. The City Council has already made findings that the building is
compatible and the ARB (and ultimately, the Planning Director), may not, under the pretext of
Condition of Approval No. 3, compel fundamental changes to the architecture, design or
construction of the building.

It must also be noted that the Planning Director’s assertion that he provided Kipling Post with
an opportunity to incorporate additional design elements to satisfy this condition is
disingenuous. On October 12, 2018, the Planning Director suggested changes that could be
made, but he made clear that adding these changes would not guarantee his approval or a
recommended approval by the ARB. Rather, he simply stated that he would seek ARB
recommended approval. Since the ARB is advisory, the Planning Director has the authority to
make this determination on his own. His refusal to do so is a telling sign that he had no
intention of signing off the condition of approval even with the suggested changes.

In any event, the suggested changes are inconsistent with this City Council’s previous 2017
findings.


                                                                                              Page 5
[SLIDE 2] – Option 1 approved by Council February 7, 2017



THE SUGGESTIONS BY THE PLANNING DIRECTOR ON THIS ISSUE WOULD REQUIRE
REVAMPING THE ENTIRE BUILDING

The third ARB hearing took place on October 4, 2018. Planning’s decision is due 2 weeks later.
On October 16, 2018, the Planning Director issued his Determination Letter with a denial based
on Condition of Approval 3c: exterior building materials, colors and craftsmanship-related
detailing. He provided little or no detail supporting his rejection.

Planning Staff was fully familiar with the design proposal in Option 1 (that was approved by the
City Council in February 2017) which included the look and feel of the architectural concrete
and the same exterior building materials, colors and craftsmanship-related detailing. Planning
recommended approval to the City Council based on that knowledge. Option 1 has not
changed.

Initially, the Planning Director included draft findings in his staff report to the ARB concluding
that Kipling Post had met all aspects of Condition of Approval No. 3. Only late in the process did
he changed his mind with respect to the last element of No. 3.

[SLIDE 3] – On October 12, 2018, only four days before his Determination Letter was due and
issued, Interim Planning Director Lait sent us an email suggesting three “simple changes”. He
did not state that the changes would result in approval, but only that he would recommend
approval to the ARB. Given the more than a dozen hearings that Kipling Post has be subjected
to before the ARB, his representation provided no assurance to the Applicant.

His three suggestions were as follows:

The first, the “addition of sun shades or awnings along the University Ave frontage” is not an
issue with us; we informed him we stand ready to incorporate, although we wonder why this
never surfaced in all our earlier discussions with Planning. Indeed, in earlier iterations of the
project, shades were included but were removed at the request of the Planning Department

The other two suggestions are by no means “simple changes”, but rather would require
extensive redesign of the project:

       “Recessing the ground floor glass façade by 18-24” on the University Avenue (with
       removed floor area added to second floor)”

       “Adding texture to the exterior concrete on the first and second floors that recognizes
       the high level of detail on surrounding buildings.”




                                                                                              Page 6
Implementing the above would require a complete redesign of the project, be subject to
complete cycle of ARB reviews, and complete resubmittal for building permit, a cycle that has
taken us over two years and hundreds of thousands of dollars.

For example, implementing the above would result in the following unacceptable outcomes: (a)
a design not in keeping with the approved Option 1, (b) not being able to move removed
ground floor square footage to the second floor which Planning knows is maxed out; it would
require a major redesign of the building to move removed ground floor square footage to any
other floor including even the fourth floor, due to mandated setbacks; (c) cause enormous
delays and costs because of redoing all the construction drawings architecture, recalculating all
the structural engineering; (d) having to seek approvals from the various city agencies again; (e)
canceling Contractors and subs contracts; and (f) since a new design would be proposed,
requiring ARB Major review when the appellant to the original project approval is eager to have
another go at it and there is appetite for a moratorium in downtown construction.

Also, construction drawings would need to be re-done because each element of construction is
integrally and intricately connected to each other and prepared in accordance with applicable
Building Codes and the Palo Alto Municipal Code. They dictate distances to egress, width of
path of travel, and ADA compliance, for example, which all will need to be redesigned and
calculated. The following are some of the additional specific ways that changes 2 and 3 would
affect the entire building. 1. Square footage would be affected in each floor. 2. Emergency
egress distances will be violated. 3. There may be an encroachment on the public right of way.
4. The entire building would need to be recalculated for weight and structural design. Further,
since the support columns are stacked through each floor from the lowest garage level up to
the third floor, each and every floor will require a complete redesign. (See Ko Architects’ letter
of November 29, 2018. [SLIDE 4])

Putting aside these enormous consequences, the Planning Director ignored the fact that this
project has been approved by the City Council since February 2017. The Planning Director
appears to have followed the lead of ARB Member Thompson who improperly and illegally
evaluated many other Findings in the City’s Land Use Approval regarding size, scale, mass and
compatibility, rather than focusing on the limited task of reviewing the application of exterior
building materials, details and colors. By ARB Member Thompson and the Planning Director’s
reasoning, the project essentially must be reviewed as a brand new project, completely
disregarding City Council’s 2017 approval, not to mention Kipling Post’s five years of work and
enormous expenses.

On October 15, 2018, the day before the Determination Letter, Applicant and Ko Architects met
with the Planning Director at 102 University to reiterate the similarity between the finish on
that building and 429 University. At the meeting, Applicant and the Architect emphasized how
the structural design was maxed out in weight so adding stucco or some sort of cladding to the
concrete would entail a complete redesign of the building. Also, Ko Architects stated to him
that one of the reasons they agreed to do this project was due to its signature feature concrete,
that it had used that approach successfully in other recent, elegant, contemporary buildings.


                                                                                            Page 7
On October 16, 2018, the Planning Director then issued his Determination Letter denying
approval to the project on the basis of unacceptable “exterior building materials, colors and
craftsmanship-related detailing”. In his denial, he stated Applicant’s had refused to cooperate
with changes recommended in his October 12, 2018 email. This is false. As noted above,
Applicant made its case in person at the 102 University meeting. In addition, the Planning
Director never committed to approval based on Applicant’s acceptance of the three
suggestions, instead leaving himself an out if the ARB didn’t agree with his suggestions. In any
event, Applicant detailed to the Planning Director why the proposals were not feasible for an
engineering and cost perspective, since they would require redesigning the project.

For two years, the project has been unchanged as far as materials of construction and
execution of the architectural concrete concept; it was approved by the City Council as Option
1; and recommended for approval by the Planning Director himself in his staff report and draft
findings submitted to the ARB (three times, including as recently as October 4, 2018).

Interim Planning Director Lait stated that if these certain changes were made, he would return
to the ARB and seek recommendation of approval from the ARB. There was no assurance that
the project would receive an approval recommendation by a hostile ARB that has never, in
more than a dozen encounters, recommended approval of the project. He was equally non-
committal about his own approval if the ARB returned with yet another refusal to recommend
approval.

In the Staff Report for this City Council hearing of December 3, 2018, on page 5, Interim
Director Lait states that “… applicant did not provide renderings of the craftsmanship-related
detailing in context until the October 4, 2018, hearing.” In this case, renderings were prepared
in response to a specific request by ARB Member Thompson at the previous ARB hearing on
September 20, 2018, two weeks prior to the October 4th hearing. Ko Architects was surprised
that renderings were required given that they are not usually part of an ARB Minor Level
hearing; they are expensive and time-consuming. Nonetheless, Ko Architects delivered four
color renderings in less than two weeks.

In sum, the suggested changes would require a revamping of the approved design, and exceed
the scope of the Condition of Approval.



THE CITY HAS NOT REQUIRED DECORATIVE CONCRETE FOR OTHER BUILDINGS ON UNIVERSITY
AVENUE OR IN THE AREA , AND IS ARBITRAILY IMPOSING THAT REQUIREMENT ON 429
UNIVERSITY

Evidence shows that the City has approved numerous other concrete buildings on University
Avenue without any requirement for textured or decorative concrete. Thus, the Planning
Director is applying a different standard to the 429 University project than other concrete
buildings on University, even though each of those other buildings was constructed in the last
decade or so.


                                                                                           Page 8
[SLIDE 5] – Here is a look at 102 University Avenue, designed by Bellomo Architects, who also
designed the adjacent 116 University building. The buildings were completed within the last 10
years, and exhibit architectural finished concrete. In the background is the Alma-High Street
parking garage, also designed by Bellomo.

[SLIDE 6] – A close-up of 102 University shows how these three basic materials, concrete, glass
and steel, comprise the entire façade of the building.

[SLIDE 7] – The detail of the snap ties on the surface of the smooth, integral-color concrete is
seen here.

[SLIDE 8] – Here is Option 1 that was approved by Council. Observe that the upper two floors
show a different color and a greater setback than the lower floors to give the appearance of
separation between the two.

[SLIDE 9] – This rendering shows how this building fits in the context of University Avenue, with
its eclectic mix of contemporary design, older even historical buildings, the Lululemon store at
428 University directly across from the 429 University site, and the 525 University tower in the
background.

[SLIDE 10] – On the issue of materials of construction, colors and craftsmanship-related
detailing, 240 Hamilton, across Ramona Street from City Hall, was recently completed.
Reposado restaurant sits next to it along Hamilton. They are a study in contrast. It is puzzling
why this building met with ARB and Planning Director approval and yet the 429 University
project has been denied because it “… does not share general characteristics or establish design
linkages with the overall pattern of development and does not share elements and material
detailing that are human-scaled, regardless of the overall building envelope. The ARB found
that the project’s lack of such features rendered it incompatible with the surrounding area”.
This indicates that it is applying its design requirements in an entirely arbitrary manner. This a
direct quote from page 5 of the City Manager’s staff report for tonight’s December 3, 2018,
Council hearing.

[SLIDE 11] – Similarly, the Survey Monkey building on Lytton and Alma sits next to the Dahl
heating business and a Victorian house. There is no sharing of design linkages which would
signal compatibility.

[Slide 12] – The building at 500 University is half a block from the project site. It sits across
Cowper from the site of the President Hotel.

[Slide 13] – 611 Cowper dwarfs a tiny building separating it from another small building at the
corner of Hamilton, and shares no design linkages with either or with The Marc tower on the
other side on Forest.

[SLIDE 14] – Again the Apple store is sandwiched between much older construction and the
façade is pure glass in stark contrast with its surroundings.



                                                                                                Page 9
[SLIDE 15] – Another example is 428 University housing Lululemon, which is 4-stories, directly
across 429 University, and immediately adjacent to a series of Birge Clark one-story storefronts
and the Varsity Theater.

By asking 429 University to add “…texture to the exterior concrete on the first and second floors
that recognizes the high level of detail on surrounding buildings” as suggested in the October
12, 2018 email from Interim Planning Director Lait, the Planning Director is insisting on a
requirement that has not been applied to other buildings, including concrete buildings.

Such a requirement in this case also is inconsistent and conflicts with the Findings of the City
Council in the February 2017 approval because it would require re-designing the project to
accommodate the extra weight of the external materials being added to the concrete walls.
Such a requirement exceeds the scope of Condition of Approval No. 3 because the request is
purportedly to make the building compatible with the area, when the City already made a
finding that there is compatibility.

The history of repeated denials of the project despite heroic efforts to meet all requirements
suggests hostility to this project. It is troubling that many projects located in the same
downtown core were approved and built without the requirement to share design linkages in
the matter of exterior building materials, colors and craftsmanship-related detailing and yet this
one project at 429 University has been repeatedly denied because of the same requirement.



THE BUILDING PERMIT IS READY TO GO EXCEPT FOR THIS ISSUE

Following approval, Ko Architects prepared the construction drawings in accordance with
Option 1 including the exterior building materials, colors and craftsmanship-related detailing.
The construction plans are based on using architectural concrete with changes as mandated by
the City Council and following discussions with the Planning Department. After months of
intensive work, these were submitted for building permit on March 2, 2018.

Staff normally turns submissions around in 30 days. Many departments complied. For
example, Water Quality Review approval was issued on March 16, 2018; Electric Utilities review
was approved on April 5, 2018. There were a few changes requiring a re-submittal. However,
many changes were due to revisions requested by the Planning Department which in turn
caused resubmittals to the various departments for their review of Planning changes. The
approval dates in Slide 16 reflect the last review date. For example, Building Review approval
date of October 6, 2018, was the last review by Building Department following changes made at
Planning’s request. The numerous iterations by Planning resulted in a tremendous cost to the
City and tremendous costs and delays to Kipling Post.

[SLIDE 16] – The current status of the building permit is that the construction drawings have
been approved by all the departments in the City except for Planning and for site logistics that
will be provided by Contractor DPR to Public Works pending the outcome of this City Council



                                                                                            Page 10
hearing. We have met with and made changes as required by water, gas, waste water, electric,
structural, fire safety, and others, and are now stalled by Planning.

It should be noted that the issues with Planning have been distilled to the one sticking point
regarding exterior building materials, colors and craftsmanship-related detailing. All other
matters have been resolved. On September 13, 2018, Adam Petersen, Senior Planner wrote
that we “… satisfy the remaining mitigation measures. Further, as noted in our meeting today,
the remaining comments related to the building permit and demo permit, excluding compliance
with Condition of Approval No. 3a, b, and c, have been satisfied. Rosemary [Morse], please
route the project to me in Accela so that I can make the above note on the building permit and
demo permit.” Conditions of Approval 3a and b have since been approved in Interim Planning
Director Lait’s Determination Letter and 3c is exterior building materials, colors and
craftsmanship-related detailing, the one remaining issue that is the substance of this appeal to
Council.



NO OTHER RECOURSE

Kipling Post requests City Council to put an end to this interminable and unfair ordeal and
overturn the denial without further delay. We first approached the ARB in November 2013,
more than 5 years ago. From the beginning, Kipling Post has proposed to build a structure and
facility that is good for Palo Alto, making huge efforts to meet all the requirements mandated
by the City, and overcoming obstacles not imposed on other similar projects.

Kipling Post is committed to proceed with legal action to ensure its rights are not trampled.
Please see the letter from Kassouni Law to City Attorney Molly Stump dated November 13,
2018.



Respectfully submitted,



Kipling Post LP

Members:
     Elizabeth Wong, MBA – Wharton Graduate School of Business
                     MS, Computer Science – Moore School of Electrical Engineering
     Jaime Wong,     PhD, Engineering – University of Pennsylvania
     Andrew Wong, JD – New York University School of Law
                    BS, Chemistry and Materials Sciences – MIT




                                                                                          Page 11
                                        Attachment J




                                         Project Plans

Hardcopies of project plans are provided to Council members. These plans are available to the
public online and/or by visiting the Planning and Community Environmental Department on the
                          5th floor of City Hall at 250 Hamilton Avenue.



                          Directions to review Project plans online:

              1. Go to: bit.ly/PApendingprojects
              2. Scroll down to find “429 University Avenue” and click the address link
              3. On this project specific webpage you will find a link to the project plans and
                 other important information



                               Direct Link to Project Webpage:

     https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/news/displaynews.asp?NewsID=4338&targetID=319
