            DOCUMENTS IN THIS PACKET INCLUDE:


                LETTERS FROM CITIZENS TO THE
                   MAYOR OR CITY COUNCIL


    RESPONSES FROM STAFF TO LETTERS FROM CITIZENS


        ITEMS FROM MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS


      ITEMS FROM OTHER COMMITTEES AND AGENCIES


ITEMS FROM CITY, COUNTY, STATE, AND REGIONAL AGENCIES




       Prepared for:           2/19/2018
       Document dates: 1/31/2018 – 2/7/2018

                                Set 1
 Note: Documents for every category may not have been received for packet
                      reproduction in a given week.




                                                                      701-32
                                                                    Attachment B



2018 Council Priorities Tally

Topic                       CM Scharff   Mayor Kniss   V. Mayor Filseth   CM Wolbach CM Fine CM DuBois CM Holman CM Kou CM Tanaka   Total
Finance/Budget                  1            1                1               1        1        1         1        1                 8
Transportation (Mobility,
Circulation, Traffic
Mitigation)                     1            1                1               1        1        1         1        1                 8
Housing                         1            1                1               1        1        1         1                          7
Grade Separation/Rail
Corridor                        1                                             1                 1         1        1        1        6
Infrastructure                  1            1                1               1        1                  1                          6
Code Enforcement                                                                                          1        1                 2
Vibrant City                                                                           1                                             1
Parking                                                                                                            1                 1

Preserving Neighborhood
Safety and Peace                                                                                                   1                 1
Noise, Air Quality, and
Preservation of Natural
Resources                                                                                                          1                 1
Unfunded Pension and
Healthcare Liabilities                                                                                                      1        1
Implement Net Promoter
Score Feedback
Mechanisms for all City
Service                                                                                                                     1        1
Retention                                                                                                 1                          1
Dear Fellow Council Members,

I regret I can not join you at the retreat Saturday - I have a family commitment which keeps me
in Sacramento this weekend.

While a letter is a poor substitute for being present all day, I do want to provide a few comments
on the recent survey of our citizens, our priority process, our priorities for 2018 and the 2018
work plan for non-priority items.

CITIZENS SURVEY
Starting with the 2018 Citizens Survey, it was good to see that several negative trends appear
to have been arrested and either improved or at least did not worsen. There remains a treasure
trove of insights in this statistically representative survey, the highest quality data we have each
year.

The large drops in satisfaction in these areas stood out to me:
   1. Variety of housing
   2. Difficulty in travel by car
   3. Sense of community
   4. Affordable food

Several issues arise repeatedly - traffic flow, signal timing, ability to park, affordable housing
and workplace housing. 70% of our residents support preserving our single family
neighborhoods and 70% support increasing below market affordable housing - at the top in
these question areas.

East Meadow and Bayshore jump out as the area most preferred for more multi-unit housing at
79% (please note there is a math error on page 21 of the community survey - should show 79%
for Bayshore).

The concern about affordable food highlights the need to continue to try to have affordable food
choices in town includes groceries and restaurants.

2018 PRIORITIES
In terms of priorities, our own rules encourage us to have a single priority for only 3 years in a
row and to limit ourselves to 3 priorities. This discipline is good and doesn’t mean we don’t work
on other things - simply that three areas receive special focus. Our top problems have been on
the list for more than 3 years - parking, housing, infrastructure. I think we should allow that, but
try to keep to only three priorities.

At Policy and Services, it was clear that there is widespread agreement on the top level -
Housing, Finance particularly of our Infrastructure projects and pensions, and Transportation
including Grade separations. ​Those are my top 3 priorities.
Transportation issues were the highest and totalled 14 - 20 votes in transportation, mobility,
circulation, traffic mitigation and grade separations. If you look at Council comments and the
community, Transportation concerns center around mobility, congestion, circulation. I don’t
believe people are necessarily saying we should eliminate cars. I strongly disagree with
prescribing that solution as the priority.

Instead, I think it’s high time that added some explicit focus on vehicle circulation - improving the
flow of our arterials by prioritizing vehicle flow on these key routes through our street network.
Doing so will improve on of the largest problems as confirmed by years of data from our citizens.
We need to stop narrowing and slowing these key arterials, which simply pushes traffic on to
local streets. Instead of traffic calming we are road enraging.

Note the neighborhood scores on traffic by neighborhood, particularly Crescent Park. TDM and
bike lanes can only go so far. We must have programs to increase flow, turning lanes, and
capacity on our major arterials to relieve local streets.

2018 Workplan
Finally the work plan we reviewed in 2016 by department was incredibly useful. We should
repeat that process in 2018 at a second working meeting/retreat. Key workplan items in other
departments that need major progress in 2018 include our Homeless services, Cubberly Master
plan, and Fiber to the Node business plan.

I hope you have a productive day and I look forward to reviewing the output of your efforts.

Best,

Tom DuBois
Palo Alto City Council
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:52 AM                                           COUNCIL MEETING
                                                                                                               02/03/2018
Carnahan, David                                                                                        ✔
                                                                                                           Received Before Meeting


From:                              Penny Ellson <pellson@pacbell.net>
Sent:                              Thursday, February 01, 2018 5:12 PM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           City Council Priorities


Honorable City Council Members,

I will be unable to attend this weekend’s Priorities Session, but I am submitting comments in writing that I hope you will
consider.

Thank you for the important work you do for us all.

Best,

Penny Ellson
(writing as an individual)

Comments for City Council Discussion of 2018 Priorities

Transportation Leadership & Groundwork
Palo Alto has created a visionary Bicycle & Pedestrian Transportation Plan to address the needs
of rapidly growing numbers of foot-powered commuters. The city has begun to implement that
vision—with some of the uncomfortable disruption that construction always brings. The
finished projects will bring improved conditions for commuters. Staff is improving our
bike/pedestrian safety education curriculum and materials to include information about how to
use new school route facilities like traffic circles, sharrows, bulbouts, and raised intersections.
The city and new PTA leadership have been working with PAUSD on updating school district
policies related to school commutes to provide a stronger, institutionalized foundation for the
Safe Routes to School partnership. Important collaborative relationships with transit agencies,
local businesses, and PAUSD officials are being invigorated. We cannot afford to lose
momentum.

All Modes Matter
Our new Comprehensive Plan presents a transportation vision that will “Create a sustainable
transportation system, complemented by a mix of land uses, that emphasizes walking, bicycling,
use of public transportation and other methods to reduce GHG emissions and the use of single-
occupancy motor vehicles.” This vision would create a safe place on the street for all road
users—motorists, bicyclists, pedestrians, transit users. We spent a lot of time developing the
new Bicycle & Pedestrian Transportation Plan…and that was needed because it was work that
had been neglected for many years. The new Comprehensive Plan fits the Bicycle &
Pedestrian Transportation Plan into the larger multi-modal puzzle and communicates how
comprehensive, multi-modal approach to planning benefits all road users. Stay the course.

                                                             1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:52 AM


The blessings of an improved economy are many, but its curse is traffic. Traffic and congestion
have increased throughout the Bay Area, including Palo Alto. It is no small matter that our
community has been able to take thousands of motor vehicle trips off city streets each day by
creating street environments that invite people to choose alternatives to driving solo. Every city
transportation project is a multi-modal project, and yet we name some of them “bike
boulevards”—which, to my mind, is a misnomer. The planned “bike boulevard” network
projects will provide significantly safer, improved facilities for bicyclists and pedestrians, but
they also systemically address needs of transit users and motorists. We need to do a better job
communicating the benefits the city is delivering to all road users as we move forward.

Moving forward…Prioritize Multi-Modal Mobility
Please prioritize a commitment to implementing a progressive vision for Multi-Modal Mobility
which includes Safe Routes to School and the projects outlined in the city’s new Bicycle &
Pedestrian Transportation Plan as well as city-wide TDM, parking, transit, signalization and
road improvement projects.

Please make Multi-Modal Mobility, including Safe Routes to School, a city priority.

Thank you for considering my comments and for your service to our community.




                                                     2
  City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:52 AM

  Carnahan, David

  From:                         John Guislin <jguislin@gmail.com>
  Sent:                         Friday, February 02, 2018 8:30 AM
  To:                           Council, City
  Subject:                      Priorities for 2018



  Council Members:


  The Menlo Park City Council recently announced their top priorities for the coming year
  and 3 out of 5 are focused on transportation issues. The 5 are:



   Complete the citywide transportation master plan

   Focus on safe routes to school initiatives

   Update the city's Downtown Specific Plan

   Work toward building a parking garage downtown

 Support a proposal to renovate the Guild Theatre into a community-focused event
  venue.



  You would be wise to follow their example and make transportation issues a major
  focus for this year’s priorities. Failure to address transportation concerns, as
  highlighted by dismal ratings in the annual resident survey, carries greater than normal
  risks in an election year.



  John




                                                       3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/3/2018 7:27 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           John Guislin <jguislin@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Friday, February 02, 2018 5:35 PM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        Blame Game intensifies



Council:

I wrote to you when Menlo Park blamed the Willow traffic on Palo Alto.

Now we are getting blame from a broader area for our jobs/housing imbalance and how it impacts our
neighbors.

Please read and understand how this threatens our future. It paints us as rich and unconcerned about our
neighbors. And it's only going to get worse.

 Palo Alto is a poster child for bad (or lack of) urban planning on a regional level. Transit infrastructure is
insufficient and cannot be made sufficient without paying billions of dollars just so Palo Alto and Menlo Park
can continue creating jobs while leaving other cities to build and provide services for housing workers.

Yet with the geographic limits of Palo Alto (hills on one side, bay on the other), and the layout of Palo Alto
streets for single family housing it is hard to see how increasing housing to accommodate the number of jobs is
possible without creating total gridlock in and around Palo Alto. Which makes it self-evident that further job
creation in Palo Alto is not in the best interests of the region, including Palo Alto itself, since widespread
resentment may force it to dramatically change itself in unpleasant ways.

Some sort of revenue sharing is needed since Palo Alto gets lots of money from businesses while other cities
pay for providing city services for Palo Alto workers.

http://meetingthetwain.blogspot.com/2018/01/palo-alto-work-live-commute.html




                                                        1
                                                                                      COUNCIL MEETING
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/5/2018 8:35 AM
                                                                                       ✔
                                                                                               02/05/2018
                                                                                           Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                                          3
Carnahan, David

From:                              herb <herb_borock@hotmail.com>
Sent:                              Sunday, February 04, 2018 2:42 PM
To:                                Council, City; Clerk, City
Subject:                           February 5, 2018, Council Meeting, Item #3: Parking Regulation Enforcement at
                                   Stanford Off-Campus Facilities


Herb Borock
P. O. Box 632
Palo Alto, CA 94302

February 4, 2018

Palo Alto City Council
250 Hamilton Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94301


FEBRUARY 5, 2018, CITY COUNCIL MEETING, AGENDA ITEM #3
PARKING REGULATION ENFORCEMENT AT STANFORD OFF-CAMPUS FACILITIES


Dear City Council:

I urge you to remove this item from your agenda and continue consideration
of it until after the Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors acts on
Stanford's application for its 2018 General Use Permit (GUP) by approving
the project, certifying the Final Environmental Impact Report as complete
and adequate, and adopting a Mitigation and Monitoring Program that would
address the environmental impacts of providing parking outside the
County's jurisdiction for the project that is located in the County's
jurisdiction.

Stanford has already decided to move some of its commuter parking for
campus employees in the County's jurisdiction to the Hoover Pavilion site
that is in the City's jurisdiction:

http://med.stanford.edu/news/all‐news/2013/08/hoover‐pavilion‐garage‐opens‐for‐parking‐sept‐2.html


Hoover Pavilion garage opens for parking Sept. 2
                                                                                                         AUG 19 2013
A new parking garage is expected to open the week of Sept. 2 at 211 Quarry Road at the Hoover Pavilion, across from the
Stanford Shopping Center.


                                                              1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/5/2018 8:35 AM
In light of increasingly limited parking capacity on campus, all Stanford commuters are encouraged to consider the Hoover
Pavilion garage, officially known as Parking Structure 9, as an alternative.
The Hoover garage will offer more than 1,000 parking spaces, including 300 patient/visitor spaces and approximately 700
commuter parking spaces. Commuters enter the garage through the south entrance on Sweet Olive Way.
The Marguerite shuttle will provide service between Hoover Pavilion and Stanford Medical Center via a revised Line MC route
and a new Hoover Express route (Line H). The Marguerite stop for Hoover Pavilion will be near the steps on the north side of
the building, facing Palo Road.
New Marguerite schedules, including Line H and revised Line MC, will be available the week of Aug. 26 on all buses,
the Marguerite web page and at Parking & Transportation Services.
If you need assistance with parking, please contact transportation@stanford.edu or (650) 723-9362. If you have questions about
Marguerite shuttles, please contact marguerite@stanford.edu or (650) 724-9339.


Stanford campus commuters who park in the new Hoover Pavilion garage would
be outside the traffic cordon used for implementing the No Net New Trips
condition of the Stanford GUP and might also receive credit for reducing
the number of trips to the Stanford campus.

The California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) requires at least an
amendment to City approvals for the Hoover Pavilion parking lot and
garage.

CEQA also requires the proposed shifting of parking for campus commuters
from the County jurisdiction to the City jurisdiction to be evaluated in
the Stanford 2018 GUP Environmental Impact Report.

Failure to address the CEQA issues is a prejudicial abuse of discretion
and a violation of CEQA.

Sincerely,

Herb Borock




                                                              2
                                                                            COUNCIL MEETING
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/5/2018 8:35 AM
                                                                            ✔
                                                                                    02/05/2018
                                                                                Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                           7
Carnahan, David

From:                          slevy@ccsce.com
Sent:                          Sunday, February 04, 2018 11:27 AM
To:                            Council, City
Cc:                            Gitelman, Hillary; Keene, James
Subject:                       Housing Work Plan


I have read the proposed work plan and discussion it with Director Gitelman.

The work plan includes many items that will help expand housing and affordability options and i encourage
you to approve it so we can move forward.

I have two items relative to the economic analysis part of the work plan that I believe will be helpful in
designing policies and new ordinances.

The first addition is to have the consultant exploring an increase in the inclusionary/BMR requirements to
add a task that focuses on the economics and impact on housing supply of making a portion of the
requirements for "missing middle" housing.

The issue of missing middle housing is now on the radar of CASA, SV@Home, the support teacher housing
movement and others. No longer is housing just a discussion of BMR and market rate housing but now
includes combinations that can include the missing middle.

I was particularly pleased to see Palo Alto Housing come out in support of the 2755 project both for its
missing middle component and in recognition of the BMR funds that would be provided.

The second addition is to seek advice on the viability and impact on housing projects of retail
requirements for projects not located in downtown or Cal Ave. I worry that a retail requirement might
conflict with the overwhelming sentiment to maximize our opportunities for BMR housing.

I think it is too much to include in this work plan but I want to record my support for a Palo Alto low-
income housing bond.

Stephen Levy

365 Forest 5A

Palo Alto 84301




                                                      1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/5/2018 8:37 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Robert Neff <rmrneff@sonic.net>
Sent:                              Sunday, February 04, 2018 11:02 PM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           We need more housing in Palo Alto


Dear City Council,

I am glad to see council and staff moving forward toward developing more housing in Palo Alto. I think we need
hundreds and thousands of new housing units in the area to get better balance of supply and demand.

I encourage you to look at the zoning along El Camino Real. Current the Research Park zoning extends all the way to El
Camino Real, between Barron Park and California Avenue, with large, empty parking lots fronting El Camino Real. What
a waste! Please ask staff to consider options to rezone El Camino Real with Grand Boulevard style, high density housing
and mixed use development. It is an opportunity to add hundreds of units of housing in an area with good access to
transit and jobs. I hope you will reconsider our current height limit, and look at allowing taller, denser developments as
well. We can go taller than 50 feet!

On our current path of continued job growth in Palo Alto and the region, we must take aggressive action to help our
stock of housing keep up.

Thank you for your service to the City of Palo Alto,

Robert Neff

Emerson Street near Loma Verde




                                                             1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/5/2018 4:00 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Steve Raney <steve.raney@jointventure.org>
Sent:                              Monday, February 05, 2018 10:06 AM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           Item 7: housing work plan: zero-car microunit overlay zone
Attachments:                       Silicon Valley Micro-Apartments.pdf


Dear Council,

Related to “developing zoning amendment ordinances with provisions designed to encourage production of a diversity of
housing types in appropriate locations,” please consider a zoning overlay for about 50 to 100 zero-car, transit-oriented-
development, affordable-by-design moderate income (affordable) microunits. IE some sort of a modest pilot project to
show that zero-car microunit housing can succeed in PA. Google is pursuing microunits for North Bayshore, to be built by
union labor in Vallejo. For many folks, a market rate 8’x20’ microunit renting at $1,300/mo is twice as good of an option as
what they have now. Zoning needs to change to make such “maximally mitigated” housing legal in PA.

Further recommendations:
     Ensure that microunit zoning overlay language is vetted by for-profit microunit developers (Panoramic Interests,
        etc) to validate that the overlay would motivate a developer to acquire control of a parcel and bring a proposal
        forward. The private sector currently has zero motivation to bring a microunit proposal forward in PA (and in most
        Bay Area cities).
     Microunits are an innovative concept, so FUD should be addressed by forming a blue ribbon microunit learning
        committee. Activities could include:
            o Visit a Bay Area microunit site, such as 1321 Mission St. in SF
            o Visit a unionized Bay Area microunit manufacturer, such as the Vallejo Mare Island FactoryOS facility.
            o Chat with Google real-estate about their microunit projects.
     To further address FUD, put on a local microunit event. This can be modeled after Mountain View’s May 2016
        event:
            o https://patch.com/california/mountainview/mountain-view-host-luncheon-addressing-lack-affordable-
                 housing-options
            o http://www.mountainview.gov/civica/press/display.asp?layout=1&Entry=1294
            o (Palo Alto Forward put on a microunit event at the Institute for the Future in 2015.)

More details provided in the attached PDF.

Thanks for your consideration, - Steve


=============================
Steve Raney
Pitman Ave, Palo Alto




                                                             1
                Silicon Valley / Peninsula Zero-Car Unsubsidized TOD Micro-Apartments
                                   Opportunity to build unsubsidized moderate income homes.
                                         Link to this google doc: ​http://bit.ly/micro-apts




1. EXAMPLE:

The Panoramic: 160 microunits, 0 cars, 0 car parking, 180
bikes. 761 DU/acre. 11 stories, 120’.
1321 Mission St., SF.

http://www.panoramic.com/cityspaces-location/mission-san-francisco​/




2. WHY: Housing crisis

According to WSJ, for the past six
years in SF and Silicon Valley,
300K jobs added with only 40K
new homes:
Silicon Valley has a nationally-prominent housing crisis/shortage. There is a market failure whereby
for- and non-profit developers have not built moderate income (80% to 120% of area median income)
housing.

California (SB375, etc) and the Bay Area (Plan Bay Area 2040) have adopted ambitious GHG
reduction policy objectives, but have not taken credible steps in the housing policy domain to
implement and meet those objectives.

3. A NEW HOUSING PRODUCT:




                              Two micro-units, as they would ship from overseas




                              Ergonomic interior of 8’ x 20’, 9’ high micro-studio
   ●   $1,300/mo rental (unsubsidized moderate income affordable). 160 square foot micro-studio.
       Two other configurations are available, including 650 square foot four-bedroom apartment.
   ●   $8 per square foot monthly rent provides high return for investors
   ●   Zero car parking, lots of bike parking, carshare.
   ●   Transit oriented development. Walking distance to Caltrain or BART. Located within walkable
       downtown areas with restaurants and activities.
   ●   Compared to current housing options, microunits are twice as good for thousands of Bay Area
       folks.
   ●   Per-capita GHG is 25% of suburban Bay Area average.
   ●   Stackable steel housing units manufactured in Vallejo by union labor at Factory OS. This
       method is 20% less costly than traditional methods.
   ●   75’ tall provides the best affordability, but other heights work
   ●   Can exploit small lots of 7,000 square feet or less.
   ●   Most often, the design is not comprehended by a city’s general plan and zoning, so a City
       Council legislative act is required to approve.
   ●   This innovative housing concept is challenging to approve as there are no examples. City
       staffs expect that their City Councils will require a market study to demonstrate sufficient
       demand for these units. As far as city staff and developer opinion, there is consensus that
       these micro-apartments will rent quickly given that other housing options are 2X the cost.
   ●   In San Francisco, private colleges obtained 20-year leases on units and now rent them to their
       students. Likewise, a city, employer, or non-profit could lease units and then rent them. One
       possibility is for a city to create a housing fund, lease units at $1,300, then subsidize rent to
       rent at a low-income or very-low-income level.
   ●   See the Feb 2015 NY Times story: ​New York’s first micro-apartments​.

4. MARKET FAILURE

Google and Facebook have determined that the public sector cannot make a dent in the housing
crisis, so they are reluctantly forced to get into the housing business.
    ● One example: Google Will Buy Modular Homes to Address Housing Crunch - ​The Wall Street
         Journal​ and ​Mercury News article​. Units to be manufactured by union labor on Vallejo’s Mare
         Island by Factory OS (​https://factoryos.com/​ ), a modular-home startup.

The low and very-low income affordable housing sector is virtuous, but requires subsidies. Subsidies
limit housing production to tiny number that does not make a dent. Per our economic system
(Capitalism), unsubsidized moderate income affordable can be financed and scaled.

For San Mateo County, $1,300 is unsubsidized moderate-income affordable housing.
http://housing.smcgov.org/sites/housing.smcgov.org/files/2016smcSTATS.pdf.​ AMI is Area Median
Income.
Compare to local SSF and SF studios for rent (some for $3,000 per month):
http://www.apartmentguide.com/apartments/California/South-San-Francisco/0-beds-1z141wj/

5. ADVOCACY/EDUCATION:
Palo Alto Forward
    ● put on a microunit luncheon at Institute for the Future in 2015. Patrick Kennedy presented.
May 2016, Mountain View
    ● https://patch.com/california/mountainview/mountain-view-host-luncheon-addressing-lack-afford
       able-housing-options
    ● http://www.mountainview.gov/civica/press/display.asp?layout=1&Entry=1294
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/5/2018 4:01 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                          LWV of Palo Alto <lwvpaoffice@gmail.com>
Sent:                          Monday, February 05, 2018 12:00 PM
To:                            Council, City
Subject:                       Housing Work Plan, Agenda item 7
Attachments:                   CC ltr housing workplan.docx



Dear City Council,

Attached please find our letter in support of the Housing Work Plan.

Thank you.

Bonnie Packer, President
--
League of Women Voters of Palo Alto
3921 E. Bayshore Road
Palo Alto, CA 94303
(650) 903-0600




                                                       1
     THE LEAGUE
OF WOMEN VOTERS
    OF PALO ALTO

                     3921 E. BAYSHORE RD. • PALO ALTO, CALIFORNIA 94303 • 650-903-0600 • www.lwvpaloalto.org


February 5, 2018

Palo Alto City Council
250 Hamilton Ave.
Palo Alto, CA 94301
Dear Mayor Kniss and City Council Members,

Re: February 5 2018, Agenda Item No. 7: Housing Work Plan

The League of Women Voters of Palo Alto (LWVPA) supports efforts by the City to
increase the supply of housing for all, particularly for those with lower incomes.
LWVPA also supports walkable, mixed-use developments and efforts to increase the
number and density of multiple-family units especially near transit centers and
along transportation corridors.

For those reasons we encourage you to adopt the all the recommendations
contained in the staff memo submitting the Housing Work Plan for 2018-2019. The
excellent proposals in this Work Plan include urgently needed zoning updates that
will encourage diverse housing near jobs, transit, and services. LWVPA particularly
supports the use of the use the City’s affordable housing funds to stimulate the
rehabilitation and development of new affordable housing. We also applaud the
recognition of the need to address workforce housing as well.

Please do what it necessary to ensure that the Housing Work Plan
recommendations, especially the zoning updates, are implemented with all due
speed to address the current housing crisis.

Thank you.

Very truly yours,


Bonnie Packer
President, League of Women Voters of Palo Alto
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/5/2018 4:30 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Jeff Levinsky <jeff@levinsky.org>
Sent:                          Monday, February 05, 2018 4:24 PM
To:                            Council, City
Subject:                       Draft Housing Work Plan



Dear Mayor Kniss, Councilmembers, and Staff:

There are plenty of great ways to encourage housing in Palo Alto. What’s ironic is that just a
few days ago, our staff recommended and the majority of the Planning Commission supported
proposals that take us in the wrong direction.

The Draft Housing Work Plan before you tonight points out that the median rent for a 2
bedroom Palo Alto apartment is $3,500 – but the Planning Commission approved a plan for
the VTA lot where small studio apartments will rent for $3,250. Just a dozen lucky people
would get a few hundred dollars off the rents and they still would need to earn 40% to 50%
above median area income. And this is in an underparked building with few amenities right at
one of the busiest intersections in Palo Alto ‐ hardly a desirable location. The project analysis
revealed not one single other project in Palo Alto with rents as high, including the luxury units
at the MARC.

So while your plan may speak of encouraging affordable housing, your staff and planning
commission are pushing at the same time for unaffordable housing, making our situation even
worse.

Please give the staff directives that turn this around, such as:

    Have upzoning only be used to create 100% affordable housing options
    Use the Terner Center study (included in your packet) to evaluate construction and
     other costs – it suggests the VTA lot project could produce affordable housing, especially
     if you do not allow the lot to be upzoned for market‐rate and above‐market‐rate
     housing
    Have affordable housing providers regularly participate in meetings to share goals and
     financial plans
    Remove the term “workforce,” as it is likely to confuse – it’s not even accurate, as it
     apparently doesn’t actually refer to the vast majority of workers who earn average or
     below‐average wages but generally to just the much smaller number of high‐earning
     professionals

                                                      1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/5/2018 4:30 PM
Thank you,

Jeff Levinsky
1682 Hamilton Ave.




                                                     2
                                                                                 COUNCIL MEETING
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:30 AM
                                                                                 ✔
                                                                                         02/05/2018
                                                                                     Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                               8
Carnahan, David

From:                           Carol Scott <cscott@crossfieldllc.com>
Sent:                           Thursday, February 01, 2018 9:20 AM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        Letter in Support of Resident's Proposal for Evergreen Park/Mayfield RPP
Attachments:                    Scott Letter to City Council 2-1-18.pdf



Dear Council Members,

I am enclosing a letter for your consideration in the matter of the City's proposal to modify the Evergreen
Park/Mayfield RPP. The City's proposal is on your agenda for your meeting on Monday, February 5, 2018.

Thank you for your attention.

Carol Scott
Evergreen Park resident
1834 Park Blvd.
Palo Alto, CA 94306
c.scott1@yahoo.com or
cscott@crossfieldllc.com


--
Carol Scott




                                                         1
February 1, 2018

City Council
City of Palo Alto

Dear Council Members:

On Monday, February 5, you will be asked to vote on Staff’s proposal to modify the Evergreen
Park/Mayfield Residential Permit Program. I regret that I will be unable to attend this
rescheduled discussion to speak as a resident of Evergreen Park. I do want to offer a few
thoughts as you consider this proposal.

First, I whole-heartedly support the proposal that has been sent to you by a group of residents
of Evergreen Park/Mayfield (Residents’ Proposal). This document is a well-researched analysis
of what we learned at the various stakeholders’ meetings and an analysis of permit parking
data provided to us by the City. It discusses some of the root causes of the current complaints
by non-Cal Avenue District (“District”) businesses on which the City’s proposal is completely
silent.

I completely agree with the recommendations made in the Residents’ Proposal. They are much
more sensible and scaled to the current issues that those presented by the City staff. As
discussed in the Resident Proposal, we believe non-District businesses can be better served
without increasing the overall number of permits through better communication from the City,
a different priority system, and a few tweaks to the allocation system and limit (see the
Residents’ Proposal).1,2 This is illustrated with two other observations from the stakeholder
meetings:
     x   The City’s proposal states that non-District businesses were able to secure only 38% of
         all RPP permits sold, but non-District businesses want permits in the zones close to
         them, and not in Zone C. A new set of rules to provide some priority in the allocation of
         permits in Zones A and B, as suggested in the Resident’s Proposal, takes this into
         account.



1 In a related vein, roughly 30 employee permits issued in Round 1 and Round 2 have no RPP address listed in the
data the City provided us. Perhaps these are employee home addresses, but not providing them makes it difficult
to insure program accountability. Similarly, over 60 residential permits were issued to addresses outside the RPP,
including quite a few to business locations in Southgate, College Terrace, and Evergreen Park. Again, perhaps
these are addresses of the owners of property in Evergreen Park/Mayfield, but multiple accounts were used to
make residential purchases for Southgate businesses and there is no easy way for residents to determine this. In
the past, the City has admitted that it issued residential permits to businesses/employees in error. If even a few of
the instances I saw in the data are also errors, they should be corrected.
2 As noted by Councilman Filseth in the January 29, 2018 discussion of the Southgate RPP, businesses also have the

option to purchase scratcher permits. The City’s data show that 407 scratchers were purchased in the second six-
month period of the RPP operation, and that 80 scratcher permits were issued to businesses at one address both
in the initial allocation round and in the renewal round.
     x   An analysis of the permit data supplied by the City shows that District businesses
         dominate Zone C, take a majority of permits in Zone B, and are now taking some in
         Zone A. A priority system would correct this imbalance.

In addition, alternatives along El Camino Real can be explored as well as sharing any privately-
owned parking lots. 3 The Residents’ Proposal also mentions a willingness to consider
temporary measures if these changes cannot take place in time for the next round of permit
applications.

Unfortunately, as we know, demand for parking will most likely continue to increase at least in
the foreseeable future, and perhaps longer than that if businesses have no incentive to engage
in activities to reduce the dependence of employees on private cars to get to work. This area
may be “transportation rich”, but ironically demand for parking has only grown. Small buildings
along El Camino Real and in the District will continue to be replaced with larger buildings, and
buildings small and large will continue to be taken over by employee-dense high tech and other
firms that thrive on the proximity to Stanford.4 In addition, the construction of the new public
garage in the District and the new public safety building will result in the displacement of
several hundred cars. They will have to go somewhere.

If the solution to ever increasing demand for commercial parking is an ever increasing number
of neighborhood parking permits, there is little incentive to be more efficient with one’s own
parking lot or to find alternative means of getting to work.5,6 Residents may find themselves
back where we started before the RPP, only this time we will be paying for the privilege of
parking in our own neighborhoods.

This leads me to the most important and disturbing recommendation the Staff is making to
satisfy a growing commercial need: to establish a 60% occupancy standard for the Evergreen
Park/Mayfield RPP area and thus the possibility of approving an extremely large number of
additional permits simply through administrative action.



3 For example, the building at 1705 El Camino Real in Zone A of the RPP and the generous parking lot on its ground
floor appear to be mostly empty. We believe, but are unable to confirm, that this building is now owned by
Stanford. At the same time, Stanford Medical Imaging Center at 451 Sherman purchased 7 employee permits in
Zone C. Perhaps Stanford would be willing to share its space with the City in return for its permits in Zone C .
4 The business located at 2443 Ash St., for example is housed in an older, modest two-story building near Hotel

California. It purchased 21 permits in the renewal round -- 15 in Zone C and 6 in Zone B -- as well as a number of
scratcher permits according to data provided by the City.
5 On a walk around the District, I observed a car lift in the garage for one business where the upper level was used

for storage boxes and not for cars. According to the City data, this business purchased 9 employee parking permits
in residential zones A and B.
6 The City does have one very successful RPP program that has very stringent limits on commercial parking – none

is allowed – and businesses have adjusted apparently by taking care of their own requirements. Development
along the west side of El Camino Real has continued with several new, large office buildings erected recently
despite the knowledge that employees will not be allowed to park in the adjacent neighborhood. When given the
mandate to do so, business can thrive and not encroach on residential neighborhoods.


                                                         2
According to the Staff proposal, a 60% average occupancy standard, together with the
assumption of a 32% show rate, would allow the City to sell up to 745 employee permits in the
residential areas (see page 9). I submit that this is a very bold proposal indeed, and one that,
to my knowledge, has not been proposed for any other RPP area in Palo Alto – not College
Terrace, not Southgate, and not even in Downton to my knowledge. As noted in the Residents’
Proposal, the City proposed this “average” occupancy rate standard in residential
neighborhoods on the basis of nothing other than its own feeling of what a neighborhood
should tolerate.

I strongly agree with the Resident’s Proposal that no such standard – either 60% or some other
level – should be approved until such time as more thorough examination and discussion of the
consequences is done, given the potentially drastic and devastating effect of it on residential
life. A single, late-night discussion at a City Council meeting is hardly enough time to make a
determination on such an important issue at this time.

In their proposal, City Staff attempt to reassure residents about 60% average occupancy by
saying that this would mean that “on average” a block side of a street with 10 spaces could
accommodate 6 cars and still give residents 4 empty ones remaining. The only problem with
that, however, is that “averages” hardly ever actually occur. Instead, there are ups and downs
and bunching in certain places, increasing the likelihood that in many spots at many times of
the day, there will be no available spaces. “Averages” can hide many extreme cases, as the
“average” does in the Staff’s proposal which shows a wide range of occupancy rates in the RPP
area.

A neighborhood is not just a parking lot with some houses scattered around to make it look
nicer. People do not use parking spaces in a residential neighborhood in the same way they use
parking spaces in parking lots. Few people park in residential neighborhoods with the thought
to maximize the use of the space, people prefer some blocks over others, garbage cans have to
be put out on the street using a parking space one day a week for each home, gardeners,
plumbers, guests attending book club meetings, and out-of-town family members visit in
neighborhoods. If a couple of homes are remodeled at the same time, or construction work is
done on any of the streets, the additional construction workers alone may throw the whole
carefully balanced system into a tizzy.7 Residents simply need more flexibility than a true
parking lot. The environment is different, the users are different – and this doesn’t even begin
to talk about quality of life where kids run across the street to the park, bicyclists increasingly
make use of Evergreen Park bike boulevards, and cars increasingly use its streets to short circuit




7I came home one day this week to find a long and large concrete mixer idling on a side street near my home
waiting to be notified by his supervisor of the location on the Stanford campus where he was to appear. He
needed at least four contiguous parking spaces. The City’s proposal does not factor in disruptions to the
neighborhood by the increasing construction on the Stanford campus.


                                                       3
traffic on El Camino Real.8 Residential quality of life is more than just having a few parking
spaces available here and there.

The City’s optimistic view of life under a 60% occupancy standard is critically based on
something it calls the “show rate”, i.e., the percent of all permits issued that are actually on the
street at a time of measurement (in the case of Evergreen Park, on one day in October, 2017).
Unfortunately, the City has no understanding of what determines the show rate or how likely it
might be to change. The City claims that the average (there’s that word again) show rate in
Evergreen Park on the single day of observation was 32%, and that this is consistent with what
it has seen elsewhere. However as noted in the Residents’ Proposal, a wide range of show
rates was observed across different parts of the RPP (p. 4). In the recent proposal to modify the
Southgate RPP, Staff state that states that a 32% to 40% show rate has been observed in other
RPPs (page 4 of that proposal), but then uses the lower value to estimate the number of
permits that could be sold in Evergreen Park. Using the lowest show rate of 32%, however, the
City hypothetically could do as the airlines do, and oversell the space to a considerable degree.
If everyone actually does show up, however, it will not be pretty.

Since we do not know what is driving the show rate, we cannot predict whether it will remain
the same or not. Yet, when I asked Mr. Kamhi if he and his staff had done any sensitivity
analysis of the impact of overselling parking permits assuming a 32% show rate, he said that
they had not. I then asked what recourse the residents would have if he and the staff were
wrong, and the show rate for the employees in Evergreen Park turned out to be more toward
the 40% show rate noted in Southgate or even higher as experienced already in some parts of
the Evergreen Park/Mayfield RPP area. His answer was that the residents would then have to
come back to the Council for yet another proposal to get relief. With all due respect, the
thought of having to do that again, after the past 2-3 years we have spent to get the current
program in place, is daunting. In other words, the City wants license to oversell the seats, but
will offer no compensation if more people/cars show up than expected. The residents will
simply be stuck paying for no benefit from an RPP at all.

A general policy on just how much incursion into residential life we will allow businesses to
make may be desirable so that the number of employee permits does not just rise as apparent
demand rises. With no limit, neither the City nor businesses have any incentive to create and
use any transportation demand management programs.9

This topic is of extraordinary importance and concern. Given the fundamentally arbitrary and
shaky grounds on which the City Staff have chosen the 60% target, I submit that we are not
prepared at this time to vote it into law. Since such a standard, once applied, could be spread
to other areas of the City, perhaps the entire City should be included in the debate as it was a

8 This is increasingly the case since the City turned Park Blvd. from El Camino Real to California Ave. into a
speedway by removing the 4-way stop signs. The replacement traffic circle is so small that no one needs to, or
does, slow down going through it. This stretch goes right by the well-used Peers Park.
9 Polices that are relevant here are those which support or create public transit options, car pooling, parking

requirements for new buildings, and the like


                                                         4
few years ago when there was a City-wide referendum on a proposed development project
near Maybell Avenue. We do need a limit so that both the City and surrounding businesses
have an incentive to engage in policies and activities that avoid conflict with residents rather
than stimulate it. We are just not ready to adopt one at this time, and certainly not 60%.

For all of these reasons, I ask that you adopt all of the recommendations of the Residents’
Proposal on Monday evening. We should not proceed by counting down from what a true
commercial zone standard should be, but instead start upwards from zero and think clearly
from there so as to keep the residential character of neighborhoods, which is not summed up
simply by the number of theoretically open parking spaces. I, and most of my neighbors,
support efforts to assist local community service providers. On the other hand, I hope that the
solution to parking woes cannot be borne solely by the residents, but also by businesses
through effective transportation demand management and building in more of its own parking
requirements, and the City through innovative and creative transportation programs and
policies.

Thank you for your time and attention.

Sincerely,
Carol Scott


Evergreen Pak Resident
1834 Park Blvd.
c.scott1@yahoo.com




                                                 5
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:51 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           wolfgangdueregger@gmail.com on behalf of Wolfgang Dueregger
                                <wolfgang.dueregger@alumni.stanford.edu>
Sent:                           Thursday, February 01, 2018 9:59 PM
To:                             Council, City; Keene, James; Gitelman, Hillary
Cc:                             Christian Pease; Ahmad Chekeni; Aileen Yang; Andrew liou; Angela Dellaporta; Anne
                                Steinle; Arthur Keller; August D.Juhl; Barbara Gable; Becky Sanders; Ben Lerner;
                                Bernadette; Bradley; Brian Bicknell; Brian Koss; carol l cooper; Carol Larson; Carol Scott;
                                Cheryl Lilienstein; Chi-Kwan; Chris Donlay; Dan Decamp; Dana Knowles; Daniel Bartsch;
                                David Hornik; David Jeong; david keller; David Lischinski; David Schrom; Dedra;
                                Deolinda Avila; Don Post; Summa, Doria; Douglas B. Moran; Ed Supplee; edric wong;
                                Filseth, Eric (external); Frank Ingle; Fred Balin; gary dufrense; Grace Kubinski; Greg
                                Goodwin; Greg Schmid (external); Irene Au; jack leslie; james harris; Jason Yotopoulos;
                                JBCornett (gmail); jeff levinsky; Jeff Salazar; Jim Wall; Joanne Koltnow; Villareal, Joe; Joe
                                Hirsch; John Luhtala; john morris; Joy Ogawa; Karen Machado; Kerry Krauter; Kerry
                                Spear; Lester D Ezrati; Lisa Spiegs; Liz Gaither; Lucinda Breed Lenicheck; Lydia Kou; M
                                Milroy; Magic; margo schaper; Marilyn Mayo; Marlene Strauss; Mary Ryan; Max
                                Galindo; Micheline Horstmeyer; michelle roth; Mike Eager; Mila Goranova; Ming Fie
                                Jennifer Ting; Nancy Traube; Neilson Buchanan; Nelson Ng; Nina /Alex; Pat Marriott;
                                Patrick Slattery; Paul Tarjan; Prad Rao?; Rainer Pitthan; Ree Dufresne; Richard Willits;
                                Rob Lenicheck; Robert Entriken; Robert Marchetti; sally sawhill supplee; Samina Sundas;
                                Sandy Wanner; Sangeeta De Datta; Shannon Rose Mcentee; sharon chin; Furman, Sheri;
                                stan and loa Lavins; Susan spangler and David; Terry Godfrey; Terry Holzemer; Tim
                                Mealiffe; Tina Entriken; Tom Dubios; Vanessa Davies; William Abrams; Wolfgang
                                Dueregger; Ylva and Rick Risano; evergreen-park-discuss@yahoogroups.com
Subject:                        Evergreen Park RPP item 8 on Feb 5, 2018



Dear City Council,

I just noticed that the discussion about the future fate of the Evergreen Park RPP has been moved again and is
now scheduled at the bottom of the agenda.

What is disturbing is not the fact that it has been moved AGAIN, but rather 2 business days beforehand - at
essentially zero notice.

How do you think this will impact our neighbors who want to present their case in front of you on monday?

Many have family, many others have days that start very early in the morning and need some hours of sleep.

this is not the first time that an RPP issue - where neighborhood involvement is big - has been rather
"discretely" moved to a time slot that makes it impossible for people from our neighborhood to attend.

I request that you reconsider your decision (if needed, move the date again), and going forward that you add
reasonable transparency to your actions and provide a time slot for such an important issue that allows
neighbors to opine.


Wolfgang Dueregger
                                                           1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 1:20 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Joanne Koltnow <joanne.koltnow@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Friday, February 02, 2018 11:12 AM
To:                             Council, City; Keene, James
Cc:                             Wolfgang Dueregger; Paul Machado; Michael Eager
Subject:                        Evergreen park RPP on 2/5 agenda



Dear City Council,

I just learned that the discussion of the Evergreen Park RPP has been re-scheduled to the end of Monday night's
agenda. The end of a meeting is not a good time for an issue that will draw a large number of community
members. I request that you find a time when all interested parties are able to attend.

As you know, staff worked hard on this issue, but so have we. We have data, and suggestions, that address the
points in the staff memo. You have an opportunity to get RPP right in Evergreen Park--to satisfy the businesses
as well as the residents. Please schedule time to hear from us and consider our comments.

This past Monday evening, after a long discussion, you made the right decision for the Southgate RPP. Please
give us the same consideration and re-schedule the Evergreen Park item.

--Joanne Koltnow




                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 1:20 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                                         Magic <magic@ecomagic.org>
Sent:                                         Friday, February 02, 2018 11:30 AM
To:                                           Council, City
Subject:                                      Wish this were April 1st!



Dear City Councilmembers,

Ah, if only we were two months in the future, movement of the Evergreen Park RPP item to the end of your
agenda might be a great joke.

Coming as it does three days before the scheduled meeting, this action is all too reminiscent of similar slaps to
the face (e.g., scheduling a meeting for neighborhood input at the height of the winter holidays) which signal
that asking resident views on this topic is a pro forma ritual rather than an honest attempt to govern
responsively.

Surely you've a way to reschedule this item to a date and time which encourages your constituents to share our
thoughts and feelings with you. Thank you for considering this request.

With appreciation,

David Schrom

********** Magic, 1979-2018: thirty-nine years of valuescience leadership ***********

Magic demonstrates how people can address individual, social, and environmental ills
nearer their roots by applying science to discern value more accurately and realize
it more fully.

Enjoy the satisfaction of furthering Magic's work by making one-time or recurring
gifts at http://ecomagic.org/participate.shtml#contribute. Magic is a 501(c)(3) public
charity. Contributions are tax-deductible to the full extent permitted by law.

                        THANK YOU!

www.ecomagic.org -------- (650) 323-7333 --—----- Magic, Box 15894, Stanford, CA 94309

**************************************************************************************




                                                                                2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 1:20 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Paul Machado <plmachado@gmail.com>
Sent:                          Friday, February 02, 2018 1:16 PM
To:                            Keene, James; Gitelman, Hillary; Council, City
Subject:                       per city web page there is no change and we are still set for 9PM



https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/63050



Could this be changed? It is confusing.


Thank you

Paul Machado




                                                        3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/3/2018 9:24 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Christian Pease <cgpease2016@gmail.com>
Sent:                          Saturday, February 03, 2018 7:38 AM
To:                            Council, City
Cc:                            City Mgr; Christian Pease
Subject:                       Resident Proposal: Evergreen-Mayfield RPP
Attachments:                   RPP_PrmtCntrt_OcpyRts.pdf



Dear Palo Alto City Council Members,

I write you concerning the City proposal to revise the current Evergreen Park–Mayfield Residential
Parking Permit (“RPP”) that you will decide on Monday evening, February 5.

Unfortunately, I am not able to attend the meeting.

So here, I want to express my complete support for the resident proposal made in response to that of
City's and the major changes the City suggests to the RPP.

Please consider our response closely. This is the fruit of a great deal of grassroots discussion and
work. It is balanced and in itself carefully considers the inputs and needs of our local community
serving businesses and non-profits.

A more follows below if you have time and care to read it - if not, just stop here as I have made my
main point above.

Thank you.

Sincerely, Christian Pease

Summary:

- Most RPP residents – especially in Zones A and B – support our nearby community serving
businesses and believe they deserve preferential access to parking permits near their locations. In
this, they are no different than resident who prefer to park near their homes.
- The Evergreen-Mayfield RPP worked reasonably well for both residents and businesses during its
first six-month phase – but it failed some businesses at the start of the second round six-month
phase.
- In MHO this failure grows out of inadequate City communications with our business community,
resulting in a poor implementation. Several of close-by businesses lost permits at the close of the
RPP’s first six-month period – they had no idea that unlike residents, businesses needed to re-apply
after six month.
- The City proposal uses these permit losses to attempt to motivate a major re-work of the program
going forward. Yet the City is silent on what caused businesses to loose permits.
- In that effort, the first ask is for about 40 additional business permits, even as the City ignores a
growing concentration of employ permits into the hands of a few business addresses at the expense

                                                      1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/3/2018 9:24 AM
of other business addresses (please see attachment for a bar chart (Zone A) and table (Zones A and
C) illustrating this).
- But the heart of this City proposal is something else: To bake in and legitimize a target occupancy
cap of 60% - characterized as a “standard” – when it is an invention without substantive
underpinnings.
- To this, the City further pushes to bake in and legitimize a questionably formulated 32% “show rate”
and apply that to the 60% occupancy target, in order to convey a notion of capacity for 745 RPP
employee parking permits in this RPP – that while not immediately “recommended” – applying a
veneer of reasonableness to this number.
- Please consider that this show rate can just as easily be explained by a growing concentration of
permits into a few hands, resulting in permits being held in reserve in an effort to defeat scarcity,
while not actually fully deploying and utilizing them – again, the detriment of other firms who would
actually fully deploy them.
- Nonetheless – in the recent City proposal to re-work the Southgate RPP and add more business
permits, this 32% occupancy figure for Evergreen-Mayfield is already significantly higher than the
City’s own measures for the Downtown and Southgate RPPs, each calculated at 22% (please see
attachment for a table illustrating this).
- At present, the rules for resident RPP permit allocations are clear: Each residential address is
eligible for up to a set number of permits. This number varies between RPPs. But no matter if you
believe residents get too many or too few permits in any particular RPP, it is a set number – and
despite problematic levels of accuracy in City data – it can be adequately traced.
- Conversely, when boiled down, business employee parking permits are allocated only on a first
come – first serve basis. This drives uncertainty, fear of scarcity, and motivates rational choices that
encourage overbuying and under-use of valuable business permits. This is not only inefficient; it is a
source argument and ill will.
- Yet nothing in this City proposal or any others I have read, attempts to address a central, root cause
of problems with the Evergreen-Mayfield program, as well as other RPPs (except College Terrace,
which notably prohibits business employee permit parking) by enabling business RPP participation
through an allocation process they can perceive as fair and equitable among and between
businesses, including non-profit operations.
- For now the City appears unwilling or unable to convene a process where a RPP business
community can assist to define and agree such rules and terms and conditions that they can accept
as fair and equitable for the distribution of valuable employee parking permits. No wonder Palo Alto
RPP programs are so unsettling to both for-profit and non-profit operations alike.
Taking on this challenge – defining, agreeing, and enforcing an understandable and apparently fair
and equitable process for allocating RPP business employee parking permits among RPP business
communities, will go a long way towards settling RPP controversies. It will motivate the clarity and
certainty that Palo Alto businesses – as well as residents and non-profit operations – want and
deserve.
And if this comes to pass, perhaps questions about numbers and types of parking permits in a RPP –
the mix and prices – will become more focused on balance, mitigations, and alternatives and
gathering the will to pursue them.
In any case, there will continue to be tension around parking scarcity – at least until the technologies
many of us are counting on to truly address the SOV dilemma become an everyday reality; one that is
broadly inclusive and accessible, even for those of modest means.
                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/3/2018 9:24 AM
But until that comes to pass, respectful tension is still a huge improvement over bitter conflict – and in
that, we will all be better for it.
Again, thank you for your thoughtful consideration on this matter.




                                                     3
                                                 
                                               
                                                  
         "



         !#



         !



          #



          



         #



         



          #



          
                 %'#    &$#    &#    &'#    '              
                         

                                                            




Source: Permit counts provided by City of Palo Alto Parking Department

1795 El Camino also received 1 and 7 permits in Zone C for Rounds 1 and 2 respectively. Businesses
   at this address also purchased 80 scratcher permits in Round 1 and Round 2 as well as
1805 El Camino received 2 permits in Zone C in Round 1
1895 El Camino received 1 permit in Zone 3 in both Rounds 1 and 2.
                                                       Concentration of Permits
                                                        Zone C and All Zones
                                                              Round 2


                                                                                            % of                             % of All
  Business                                                                      Permits    Total C    Permits              Permits Sold
   Zone                                                                         in Zone     Sold      in other    Total     All Zones
  Location             Address                Business Name if Known               C        (123)      Zones     Permits      (244)

 CA District   260 Sherman               Office Bldg – multiple businesses         24         20%                   24

 CA District   2443 Ash St.              Branch Metrics                            15         12%        6          21

 CA District   490 S. California         Office Bldg. = multiple businesses         9          7%        2          11

 CA District   445 Sherman               New Office Bldg.                           8          7%                    8

 CA District   318 Cambridge             Office Bldg – single unknown co.           8          7%        4          12
                                         Premier Plastic Surgery, Mulcahy
 Zone A        1795 El Camino Real       Dental, Monica Stone Skin Care             7          6%        11         18

 CA District   451 Sherman               Stanford Medical Imaging                   7          6%                    7

                                         Total for 7 addresses                     78         63%        23        101        41%

               15 other businesses                                                 24         20%



               No RPP address listed     Unknown                                   21         17%

                                         Total Zone C Permits Sold                123        100%

Permit Data Source: City of Palo Data, Parking Department
Business names obtained through personal observation, Google Maps, and City of Palo Alto Business Registry
                                                     Comparison of Occupancy Rates


                                                                                                         Staff
                                                        Avg.            Max              Min           Proposal
                RPP Program        Observation        Occupancy       Occupancy       Occupancy       New Zones      Target
                Evergreen                                                                                51%
                Park/Mayfield*1    Zone A                 44%            49%             39%             40%           60%
                                                                                                         24%
                                   Zone B                 36%            40%             31%             47%           60%
                                                                                                         65%
                                   Zone C                 53%            60%             46%             54%           60%
                Cal Ave Off-St.2   Tuesday                68%            88%             38%                           85%
                                   Saturday               36%            48%             18%                           85%

                Southgate3         1/10/18 (Wed.)         22%            23%             21%                          None
                                   1/11/18 (Thurs)        22%            24%             20%                          None

                Downtown4                            Not available


Note: Evergreen Park/Mayfield RPP area average occupancies are as high or higher than California Avenue off-street parking on a
      Saturday.


1
    Staff Proposal to Modify the Evergreen Park/Mayfield RPP, Meeting Date (originally) January 29, 2018, Appendix xx.
2
    Staff Proposal to Modify the Evergreen Park/Mayfield RPP, Meeting Data (originally) January 29, 2018.
3
    Staff Proposal to Modify the Southgate RPP, Meeting Date January 29, 2018
4
    Although tables contained in the Staff Proposal to Modify the Southgate RPP, Meeting Date January 29, 2018, are labeled as being
    for the Downtown RPP, they actually appear to be for Southgate as the label information at the top left is inconsistent with the table
    title. Evergreen Park residents do not have access to downtown occupancy rates at this time.
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/5/2018 8:36 AM                             Please Contact the Clerk’s Office
                                                                                           to View Additional Pages,
                                                                                       Attachments, or Images Related
Carnahan, David                                                                                to this Document

From:                                  wolfgangdueregger@gmail.com on behalf of Wolfgang Dueregger
                                       <wolfgang.dueregger@alumni.stanford.edu>
Sent:                                  Sunday, February 04, 2018 9:35 PM
To:                                    Council, City
Cc:                                    Lydia Kou; Filseth, Eric (external); Tom Dubios
Subject:                               Evergreen Park RPP
Attachments:                           Evergeen Park RPP resident memo (1).pdf



Dear City Council,

I fully support the proposal by Evergreen Park residents submitted to you for the February 5, 2018 discussion
reg/ potential changes to the Evergreen Park RPP. The proposal is attached to this email.

We Evergreen Park Residents consider the small businesses that border our small neighborhood along the
eastern side of El Camino real (between College Ave and Park Blvd) as part of our neighborhood that support
the vitality and quality of life of Evergreen Park. The Evergreen Park RPP was crafted such that these small
businesses also have parking available for their mostly low income employees. In the first half of 2017 life was
good, everybody was happy. In the second half of 2017, no more. why?
Because a few (not-local-neighborhood serving) businesses were able to buy significant numbers of employee
permits. As a consequence very few employee permits were left for those small, low income, neighborhood
serving businesses that (a) got permits in the first half of 2017 and (b) for which the employee permits were
designed for in the first place.

We "Evergreeners" understand the frustration of those small, low income, neighborhood serving businesses and
therefore agree to give them 40 additional TEMPORARY employee permits. But let me say this very clear:
TEMPORARY means that there is a time limit on these 40 spots, and the time expires on 09/30/2018. We hope
that City Council will direct staff to come up during this time (almost 8 full months!) with a comprehensive
plan how to address the seemingly ever increasing demand for more parking spots in Evergreen Park (but also
in other parts of the city).

our neighborhood already gives 250 spots away for employee parking. now an additional 40.

- what happens if a tenant follows Yandex's departure at 299 N California Ave? This is a huge office building at the corner of
Cal Ave and Birch.
- what happens if 260 Cal Ave is finally fully occupied?
- what happens if the new office building on the 300 block on Cambridge gets developed?
these are just 3 examples where tens of additional parking spots EACH will be "required".

My point is this: the demand will keep going up - no matter what and how you count. But what is the City's policy to manage that demand?
Will we have the exact same discussion again in 6 months or 1 year when staff will inform the residents again at one of these "outreach"
meetings that the neighborhood has to cough up an additional number (whatever that number might be) of employee spots?
what is the strategic thinking please?

And it does not come in too helpful when during these "outreach" meetings with residents and small businesses, staff
-1: presents citizens with "facts" such as 41 new employee parking spots are required and upon a question from a lady in the audience why
41 and not any other number, the response was "well we can settle at 40".... this is probably how we got to number 40 ...
-2: upon suggestion by some small businesses along El Camino as well as residents to check with CalTrans if there is the possibility to
make at least the eastern part of El Camino available for employee parking, staff responded this is not possible;



                                                                    1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/5/2018 8:36 AM
I want to ask you City Council to direct staff to start exploring in all seriousness multiple ways to mitigate existing employee parking
demand on the Evergreen Park neighborhood - by looking at various options like parking along El Camino, use of VTA parking lot, use of
Caltrain parking lot, and/or providing bus shuttles from remote parking lots.

I want to ask you City Council to come up with a long term strategy to limit the growth of employee parking permits by preventing non-neighborhood
serving businesses (such as software companies) to purchase employee permits, because:
-1: they are non-neighborhood serving (most of them draw global revenue) and there is no direct local benefit for our city, our county or even our state
(besides them paying taxes (which we ALL do) - IF they are profitable); and as we know, many startups are not profitable at all.
-2: they don't employ low-income workers
-3: they are here because Palo Alto is in the heart of Silicon Valley and gives those companies bragging rights; but our neighborhood is not willing to pay
the price of being destroyed by being their free parking lot;

regarding -3: "strategically" thinking, why is Palo Alto not doing the same as what was done in Mountain View and in Menlo Park? There, companies
either already have or are still further developing big office parks east of Highway 101 (FB, GOOG and many other smaller firms). why can't Palo Alto
use the former landfill to have a business park there? then the companies that choke our neighborhood(s) with their excessive parking demands would
move east of 101 (they can still have their Palo Alto zip code), small-neighborhood-serving businesses could again find parking for their employees, and
residents could again live in peace.

what is needed is an approach to take somehow the ever increasing (parking) pressure off the valve...

We Evergreeners have been very engaged among us, with you the City as well as the small businesses around us. We are convinced we can get this
complex issue resolved so that we will be all happy. But it needs good will from all sides. We hope the city will reciprocate with some bold decisions
(like building the garage on Cal Ave to full capacity) and come up with a long-term solution how to handle big businesses in small local
communities/neighbnorhoods.

However, if we choose the path of ever increasing the number of employee permits in the Evergreen Park
neighborhood, there won't be any RPP anymore - it would be already dead before even the full trial period is
over!


Wolfgang Dueregger




                                                                             2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/5/2018 4:08 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Suzanne Keehn <skeehn2012@gmail.com>
Sent:                          Monday, February 05, 2018 1:27 PM
To:                            Council, City; City Mgr
Subject:                       Evergreen Park RPP



The Evergreen Park residents have sent you a very detailed letter about the RPP in their
neighborhood and
what has not worked using the RPP in the neighborhood.

I urge you to take their well thought out, and studied document and follow their suggestions.

Permits should be issued in zones closest to the business location
• Preference should be given to neighborhood-serving businesses, permit renewals, and
businesses which do not participate in the California Avenue Parking Assessment District
• Permits may be issued only to businesses listed in the Palo Alto Business Registry
• Businesses with low income workers are to be given preference
• Businesses with a Traffic Demand Management plan are given lowest priority
• Fair and equitable distribution of permits
◦ Based on number of employees per business
◦ Avoid concentrations of permits at any one location
◦ Consider the number of businesses at any one location

Sincerely,
Suzanne Keehn
4076 Orme St.
94306




                                                     1
                                                                     COUNCIL MEETING
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 9:16 AM
                                                                      ✔
                                                                              02/02/2018
                                                                          Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                     2 3 6
Carnahan, David

From:                                Ng, Judy
Sent:                                Friday, February 02, 2018 9:14 AM
To:                                  Council Members; ORG - Clerk's Office; Council Agenda Email
Cc:                                  Keene, James; Shikada, Ed; De Geus, Robert; Flaherty, Michelle; Jonsen, Robert; Lum,
                                     Patty; Mello, Joshuah; Sartor, Mike; Eggleston, Brad; Raschke, Matt; Padilla, Monica;
                                     Swaminathan, Shiva
Subject:                             2/5 Council Agenda Questions for Items 2, 3, & 6




 Dear Mayor and Council Members:

 On behalf of City Manager Jim Keene, please find below in bold staff responses to inquiries
 made by Council Member Tanaka in regard to the February 5, 2018 council meeting agenda.

 Item 2: Extending Time Of Use Electric Rates ‐ CM Tanaka
 Item 3: Relinquish Parking Enforcement: Stanford University ‐ CM Tanaka
 Item 6: Lucie Stern Children's Theatre Mechanical and Electrical Upgrades ‐ CM Tanaka

 Item 2: Extending Time Of Use Electric Rates

           Q. 1. What other cities in the Bay Area have this pilot program?

           A. 1. PG&E provides time‐of‐use (TOU) electric rates throughout its service
           territory. The cities of Santa Clara and Alameda, both municipal utilities, do not
           currently offer such rates.


           Q. 2. Why did only 125 of the 300 customers participating in the Customer Connect
           Pilot choosing to enroll in the TOU rates?

           A. 2. The Customer Connect smart grid pilot program was closed at 300
           customers, among which only 125 expressed interest in participating in a TOU
           rate, potentially based on their individual usage patterns. Additionally, those
           customers with rooftop PV systems were ineligible to participate in the TOU pilot
           rate.


           Q. 3. Why is the price $50,000 for every year until 2022? What is the justification for
           the cost?

           A. 3. The cost represents the operational cost to serve the 300 customers on the
           Customer Connect pilot and provide customer access to granular consumption
           information. This information will also be used to inform staff on electric
           distribution system issues such as voltage along distribution feeders.

                                                               1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 9:16 AM



        Q. 4. Why will this program take until 2022 to fully take off?

        A. 4. Smart meters are required to offer TOU rates. The City anticipates full
        deployment of smart meters by 2022, at which point the City will evaluate the
        merits of offering TOU rates for all customers. As reported separately to the city
        council, the full deployment of smart meters is dependent on implementation of a
        new enterprise resource program and customer information system.


 Item 3: Relinquish Parking Enforcement: Stanford University

        Q. 1. How much revenue will the City of Palo Alto loose by relinquishing parking
        enforcement in the Stanford University lots?

        A. 1. Based on a four year average, the City will lose approximately $54,042 in
        Stanford parking revenue per year. The revenue for 2017 was $67,100. Even though
        revenues were higher in 2017, this has not been a consistent upward trend. (See
        chart below)

        Stanford Parking Enforcement Revenue and Cost Estimates

    Calendar    Citations     Revenue       Salary &     Other Cost        Total     Net
      Year                    Estimate      Benefits     Estimates          Cost
                                              Cost                       Estimates
                                            Estimate                     (Salary +
                                                                           Other)
      2017        2,255       $67,100       $58,073       $17,193         $75,266  ($8,166)
      2016        1,941       $57,765       $54,716       $16,941         $71,657 ($13,982)
      2015        1,978       $58,865       $50,355       $16,694         $67,049  ($8,184)
      2014        1,090       $32,438       $50,355       $16,452         $66,807 ($34,369)



        Q. 2. How much does it cost for current enforcement?

        A. 2. The 2017 cost of Stanford parking enforcement was $75,266. An operating loss
        of $8,166.


        Q. 3. How much money will we gain or lose from the new areas of enforcement?

        A. 3. Projected revenue related to redeploying the .5 FTE is difficult to estimate.
        There is currently one Community Service Officer (CSO) dedicated to the California
        Avenue District. With the redeployment of the .5 FTE CSO from Stanford to
        California Avenue, we will be able to add additional enforcement efforts in this
        growing and busy district. Additionally, new hourly parking signage is being
        installed along El Camino Real between Churchill and the California Avenue District.
        A conservative estimate of additional revenue generated in these two areas is
        approximately $43,064 for the first year.

                                                            2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 9:16 AM

         Lastly, the CSO will be able to assist with abandoned (vehicles parked in excess of
         72 hours) vehicle complaints which have grown substantially over the last three
         years and continue to do so.

         The number of abandoned vehicle complaints included:

         2016 were 696
         2017 were 877
         2018 estimate 1,142

         These complaints are very time consuming. We currently have one CSO assigned to
         this task. The average time for this CSO to resolve a complaint and respond to the
         complainant is about one week. Redeploying the .5 FTE to California Avenue and
         other duties means that there is also the possibility of having a “backup” CSO to
         assist with abandoned vehicle complaints when needed.


         Q. 4. Would it make sense to use the new technology that Stanford uses to enforce
         parking for Palo Alto?

         A. 4. From a purely business standpoint, with substantial infrastructure funding and
         a lack of policy implications related to privacy, Automated License Plate Reader
         (ALPR) technology makes perfect sense for parking enforcement.

         ALPR implementation is a part of the Planning and Community Environment
         Department, Transportation Division’s master parking plan which is in progress.
         The implementation of ALPR Technology is a part of that master plan and will have
         a staged implementation. The policy implications and funding will need to be
         discussed. Council has seen the parking study, but will be introduced to the
         proposed parking master plan, with staged implementation, in the next month.

         Stanford has already purchased this technology and is moving forward. We are not
         prepared to do so at this time.


 Item 6: Lucie Stern Children's Theatre Mechanical and Electrical

         Q. 1. Please provide more specific examples of “mechanical and electrical upgrades”.
         Are these repairs for safety as well?

         A. 1. This project will replace and/or upgrade the following mechanical equipment
         within the Palo Alto Children’s Theatre:
                Air Cooled Chiller (roof‐mounted)
                Chilled water pump
                Hot water boiler
                Hot water pump
                Twelve exhaust fans
                Four air distribution devices
                                                            3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 9:16 AM
               Two roof‐mounted air handling units
               Two air handling units located in the basement
               Seven horizontal fan coil units
               Three vertical fan coil units
               One new water cassette unit
               Twenty‐six control valves
               Twenty pressure controllers
               Twenty measuring valves
        It will also replace and/or upgrade the following electrical equipment:
               One 800 amp main switchboard
               One 400 amp main switchboard
               Nineteen electrical distribution panels

        The majority of the work in this project will replace equipment that is at the end
        of its service life. New equipment is generally much safer than older
        equipment. New equipment is also more efficient and reliable than older
        equipment. The scope also includes extending the fire sprinkler system beneath
        the exterior walkway canopy throughout the Lucie Stern center. Stubs for these
        sprinkler lines were installed during the first phase of work. Lastly, the work
        includes replacement of the fire department connection for the Children’s
        Theatre. The new fire department connection will be relocated to provide easier
        and quicker access for the Fire Department should the need arise for them to
        pump additional water into the building sprinkler system.


        Q. 2. If the Children’s Theater repairs were cut out of the first project (the whole
        Lucie Stern Community Center‐ approximately $2,239,000 for construction only),
        why is the cost for just the Children’s Theater repairs (approximately $2,298,000 for
        construction only) more than the cost for the whole Lucie Stern Center repairs?

        A. 2. The Children’s Theatre mechanical system is very complex and portions are
        in very difficult to access locations. In contrast, the mechanical upgrades to the
        Community Center building added air conditioning and were relatively simple
        with the addition of a new fenced enclosure beside the ballroom.


        Q. 3. Why was the cost so poorly estimated for the first project that the whole
        Children’s Theater repairs had to be cut out?

        A. 3. No bids were received for the first project. Staff then directly solicited a
        capable firm for a quote. This was a particularly busy construction time for the
        Bay Area. Construction costs for skilled trades were much higher than the design
        consultant team had estimated. To proceed with work at that time, the project
        was divided in a logical manner to allow the critical life safety systems (fire alarms
        and sprinklers) for the whole complex to be replaced, along with electrical
        upgrades to the Community Theatre (which was also a safety issue), and the

                                                           4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 9:16 AM
        mechanical system upgrades to the Community Center building.


        Q. 4. What is the cost per square foot on this project?

        A. 4. The size of the Children’s Theatre is 17,619 square feet. For the work directly
        related to this building (i.e. $2,119,306), the cost per square foot is $120. That
        value excludes the fire sprinkler work ($179,070) under the exterior walkway
        canopies for the whole Lucie Stern complex.


        Q. 5. Can I get a copy of the RFP?

        Q. 5. Staff assumes that this request is in reference to the Invitation For Bids (IFB)
        for the Children’s Theater work. The IFB is available at:
        https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/blobdload.aspx?BlobID=63243




Thank you,
Judy Ng


             Judy Ng
             City Manager’s Office|Administrative Associate III
             250 Hamilton Avenue | Palo Alto, CA 94301
             Phone: (650) 329‐2354
             Email: Judy.Ng@CityofPaloAlto.org




                                                                  5
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:49 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                               Jeff Hoel <jeff_hoel@yahoo.com>
Sent:                               Thursday, February 01, 2018 7:44 PM
To:                                 UAC
Cc:                                 Hoel, Jeff (external); Council, City; CAC-TACC; ConnectedCity
Subject:                            02-07-18 UAC meeting -- staff report -- Fiber Utility Update


Commissioners,

On your 02-07-18 agenda,
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/63221
Item IX.5 is a Fiber Utility Update. Here's the staff report:
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/63216

I'd like to comment (below the "######" line) on the staff report. My comments are the paragraphs beginning with "###.")

Note that the item is a "discussion" item, so you can't vote on your advice to Council. If you'd like to take a more action-
oriented interest in fiber utility things, please let staff know.

Thanks.


Jeff

-------------------
Jeff Hoel
731 Colorado Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94303
-------------------

PS: On 10-03-16, I commented on a previous revision of ATTACHMENT A. Please see pages 3-13 here.
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/54495

############################################################################

02-07-18 staff report:
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/63216

--- page 1 ---

### These are PDF page numbers. ATTACHMENT A's "page 1" is PDF page 2, etc.

5

### This staff report is about Item IX.5 of UAC's 02-07-18 agenda.

MEMORANDUM
TO: UTILITIES ADVISORY COMMISSION
FROM: UTILITIES DEPARTMENT
DATE: February 7, 2018
SUBJECT: Fiber Utility Update

This fiber utility update provides a summary of highlights of the City's dark fiber optic backbone network, including the
current status of various initiatives to expand the network for citywide fiber-to-the-premises and wireless services. This
update has been prepared to keep the UAC apprised of the major efforts and issues associated with the fiber utility. Staff
                                                              1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:49 AM
is requesting UAC feedback regarding current efforts related to the fiber-to-the-node/fiber-to-the premises request for
proposal (RFP) to retain a management consultant to prepare a business case, in addition to strategic advice regarding
the City's future broadband expansion opportunities. The overall objective is to fully leverage the existing fiber network
and reserves to support new and future applications and technologies dependent on gigabit-speed broadband, in addition
to identifying potential public-private partnership opportunities.

Staff is also seeking UAC feedback on the most effective structure for reporting progress and advising the City Council on
the work ahead.

Attachment A: Fiber Overview and Initiatives

PREPARED BY:           JIM FLEMING, Senior Management Analyst          [initialed]

REVIEWED BY:           DAVE YUAN, Strategic Business Manager         [initialed]

APPROVED BY:           ED SHIKADA        [signed]
                       Utilities General Manager

--- page 2 ---

ATTACHMENT A

### The following header is repeated on every page, but I won't repeat it on every page of this commentary.

Utilities Department
Version: 4.0

### End header.

OVERVIEW OF CITY DARK FIBER OPTIC BACKBONE NETWORK
FIBER-TO-THE-PREMISES AND WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS INITIATIVES

### Section 2.23.050 of the City's municipal code says that one of UAC's responsibilities is to advise Council about the
City's fiber utility.
http://library.amlegal.com/nxt/gateway.dll/California/paloalto_ca/paloaltomunicipalcode?f=templates$fn=default.htm$3.0$v
id=amlegal:paloalto_ca
It's been that way since 10-18-10.
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/25087

### Section 2.23.050 doesn't say anything about wireless. Nor should it.

Executive Summary

This document is intended to provide a summary of the highlights of the City’s dark fiber optic backbone network, in
addition to various initiatives to expand the network for citywide fiber-to-the-premises and wireless services. It is only
meant to inform the reader who wants to understand the history of the City’s dark fiber network and recent broadband
initiatives.

City of Palo Alto Dark Fiber Optic Backbone Network

The dark fiber optic backbone network (“fiber network”) was originally conceived by the City in the mid-1990s and is
maintained and operated by City of Palo Alto Utilities (“CPAU”). The City’s initial telecommunications strategy was to build
a dark fiber ring

### Palo Alto's dark fiber network isn't really in the shape of a ring. See the map of the network on page 45 of this
document:
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/42930

around Palo Alto that would be “capable of supporting multiple network developers and/or service providers with
significant growth potential.”
                                                               2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:49 AM

### It would be interesting to know who said this, and when, and whether Council in effect adopted it. I Googled
"site:cityofpaloalto.org 'multiple network developers' 'significant growth potential'" and got eight hits, none older than
2014. So I think the quote might have been invented.

### Historians may wish to peruse the minutes of Council's 08-05-96 meeting, where Council approved moving forward
with the dark fiber network.
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/cityagenda/publish/citycouncil-archive/1996/19960805.html
It mentions "growth" once ("growth market"). It mentions "network developers" twice (but doesn't say "multiple"). It
mentions "service provider" (or "service providers") 67 times, but the discussion was about what service providers might
do if there were a dark fiber network.

In the mid-1990s, most investor-owned and public utilities invested in fiber optics to improve command and control of their
utility infrastructure. Many of these networks typically had excess capacity that could be licensed or leased to third parties.

### This doesn't say what was true of Palo Alto's dark fiber network. I believe that Palo Alto's dark fiber network was
designed from the beginning to have strands for leasing to customers. In other words, I don't think the idea of leasing
strands to customers came about as the result of an accidental "excess capacity."

The first phase of the fiber backbone construction occurred in 1996-1997. The initial portions of the network were
constructed in a backbone ring architecture in existing utility rights-of-way. The fiber backbone was routed to pass and
provide access to key City facilities and offices. The majority of the City’s business parks (e.g. Stanford Research Park)
and commercial properties are also passed by the fiber backbone.

### In the fiber-to-the-premises (FTTP) context, to "pass" a premises means to provide a connection point close enough
to the premises that it could be connected as a matter of routine. The City's dark fiber network doesn't "pass" anything in
this sense. To connect a dark fiber customer, the City in general has to do a one-of-a-kind engineering analysis just to see
how much it will cost the customer, and the connection might be several blocks long.

The original fiber backbone consisted of 33 route miles

### Council's 08-05-96 minutes say "15-mile."
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/cityagenda/publish/citycouncil-archive/1996/19960805.html

with 144 or more strands of single-mode fiber along most routes. Since the late 1990s, the fiber backbone has been
expanded to approximately 49 route miles of mostly 144- or 288-count single-mode fiber.

Fiber network construction was financed internally by the Electric Enterprise Fund through a 20-year, $2 million loan at a
0% interest rate. These funds were used to construct the network and to cover operating expenses. At the end of Fiscal
Year 2008, the fiber optics business completed the loan repayment to the Electric Enterprise Fund for all capital and
operating expenses from the beginning of the project. A separate Fiber Optics Enterprise Fund, capable of maintaining its
own capital and operating budgets and financial operating reserve, was also created. In Fiscal Year 2009, a Fiber Optics
Enterprise Fund Rate Stabilization Reserve (RSR) was established.

The fiber network was built in part in response to telecommunications service providers such as emerging Competitive
Local Exchange Carriers (CLECs) that would use available dark fiber to provide various telecom services. In the mid-
1990s, there was a high demand for fiber transport facilities to support the expansion of bandwidth-intensive broadband
services.

By the late 1990s, many CLECs left the market either through mergers with other CLECs or bankruptcy; the so-called “dot
com bust” also occurred at roughly the same time. As a result, the anticipated demand for dark fiber in the original target
market proved to be somewhat limited. By the late 1990s there was a glut of available dark fiber in many areas of the
country. Nonetheless, it was evident that a fiber network would be a valuable asset for command and control of City of
Palo Alto Utilities (CPAU) facilities (e.g. electric substations) and other critical City infrastructure such as the traffic signal
system. The network would also support a wide range of broadband voice, data and video applications for City

### The following footer is repeated on every page, but I won't repeat it on every page of this commentary.

Fiber-to-Fiber Premises and Wireless Communication Initiative          Page 1 of 7      Date Last Updated 12/28/17

                                                                 3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:49 AM
### End footer.

--- page 3 ---

departments, in addition to various commercial users, telecommunications service providers, and the community as a
whole.

In 2000, the City began to license “dark fiber” for commercial purposes.

### According to some articles in the Palo Alto Weekly, by 12-19-97, there were two dark fiber commercial customers,
https://www.paloaltoonline.com/weekly/morgue/news/1997_Dec_19.LOOP.html
and by 02-09-00, there were 17.
https://www.paloaltoonline.com/weekly/morgue/news/2000_Feb_9.FIBER.html

Dark fiber is unused fiber through which no light is transmitted, or installed fiber optic cable not carrying a signal.

### That's a nonsensical definition. Dark fiber is fiber which is not lit by the owner of the fiber. The reason the City's dark
fiber makes money is that the City's dark fiber customers are able to light it.

The basic business model is to provide dark fiber connectivity to users requiring access to large amounts of bandwidth.

### The City doesn't have to know why a customer leases its dark fiber. Maybe it's bandwidth. Maybe it's
latency. Maybe it's privacy. Maybe it's reliability. Maybe it's freedom to use non-standard protocols.



Customers are responsible for providing and maintaining the equipment to “light-up” or provision licensed fiber strands.
Dark fiber is licensed or leased by a provider such as the City without the accompanying transmission service. In contrast,
traditional telecommunication service providers only make available certain products (commonly known as “managed
services”) within their service options that may not adequately meet the requirements of the specific applications.

The fiber network has high market share and brand awareness among commercial enterprises and other organizations
that need the quantity and quality of bandwidth provided by direct fiber optic connections.

By connecting to the City’s fiber backbone, the customer gains fiber access to their Internet Service Provider (ISP) of
choice.

### In general, the dark fiber connection connects any two points the customer wants to connect. Often, but not always,
one of the two points is the ISP that the customer wants to connect to.

A dark fiber customer can interconnect communications systems or computer networks across multiple Palo Alto locations
and can also connect directly to their local and/or long distance carrier(s) of choice with a full range of communications
services. Dark fiber customers can also have redundant telecommunication connections for enhanced reliability.

Many of the City’s commercial dark fiber customers gain access to the Internet through the Palo Alto Internet Exchange
(PAIX, now owned by Equinix). PAIX is a carrier-neutral collocation facility and hosts over 70 ISPs at their facility located
in downtown Palo Alto. Equinix has similar facilities in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Asia.

The City currently licenses dark fiber connections to 108 commercial customers. The fiber network also serves the
following City accounts: IT Infrastructure Services, Utilities Substations, Utilities Engineering, Public Works, Water Quality
Control Plant and Community Services (Art Center). The total number of dark fiber service connections serving
commercial customers and the City is 221 (some customers have more than one connection). At the end of fiscal year
2017, the licensing of dark fiber service connections resulted in a fiber reserve of approximately $28 million.

### The 4Q17 Utilities Quarterly Update (01-18-18)
https://cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/62954
says it's $25,420,000.

According to the proposed Fiscal Year 2018 Budget, the fiber reserve is projected to increase by $1.1 million.

                                                                4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:49 AM
### In a "normal" year, this might be more like $2.3 million, but this year, there are extra expenses for network
refurbishing.

Annual dark fiber license revenues come from the following customer categories:

• City service connections: 27% of gross revenues.
Private sector entities licensing dark fiber from the City:

• Resellers: 42% of gross revenues. “Resellers” are telecommunication companies that purchase large amounts of
transmission capacity from other carriers and resell it to smaller end-users. Examples of resellers are telecom companies
that sell broadband, telephony and video services to the commercial and residential markets.

### In the case of the City's dark fiber network, resellers lease dark fiber connections from the City and then allow their
customers to make use of those connections somehow.

• Various commercial enterprises: 31% of gross revenues. Examples of private end-users are companies involved in
various technologies, web hosting, social media, finance, medical, pharmaceuticals, research and
development, software, law firms, consulting firms, e-commerce, etc.

--- page 4 ---

• Service offerings: Dark fiber backbone license fees are based on the number of fiber miles per month.

### This paragraph shouldn't start with a "•" because it's not the next element in the previous list of customer categories.

### The per-month license fee is based on more than just the length of the leased backbone fiber.

Utility Rate Schedule EDF-3 (Dark Fiber Licensing Services) base license price is between $213 to $425 per fiber mile,
per month.

### See the EDF-3 Rate Schedule for further details.
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/8108

Typical installation costs range from $500 for a building with existing fiber to $8,000 or more for installations requiring
extensive substructure. Available configurations include point-to-point and diverse rings. For more information regarding
commercial dark fiber services, refer to the City’s website:
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/gov/depts/utl/business/programs/fibernet.asp

### Note that the initial fee for creating a dark fiber connection isn't discussed here. This pricing overview says it could
be "$8,000 or more."
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/news/displaynews.asp?NewsID=1508&TargetID=235

The majority of business parks and commercial properties are passed by the fiber backbone.

### The dark fiber network doesn't "pass" any entities, in the FTTP sense that you can make a connection inexpensively,
without having to do an engineering exercise.

### Is it good enough to come relatively close to only a "majority" of business parks and commercial properties?

In 2014, CPAU completed a project to serve 18 Palo Alto Unified School District facilities with dark fiber service
connections (17 schools and the District’s Business Office).

Fiber Optic Network Rebuild Capital Improvement Project (FO-16000)

In 2016, CPAU retained Celerity Integrated Services, Inc. to provide a one-time comprehensive review and audit of the
City dark fiber optic network. Celerity completed the review and audit and provided a physical description of the network;
documented the number of fiber strands, in addition to conducting an inspection of 90 fiber nodes/cabinets (i.e. network
splice points) to identify what is labeled within the individual nodes/cabinets.

The rebuild project will install new aerial duct or substructure (conduit and boxes), in addition to fiber backbone cable to
                                                               5
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:49 AM
increase capacity for sections of the dark fiber ring that are at or near capacity. This project will allow CPAU to meet
customer requests for services. The project areas primarily cover the Stanford Research Park, Palo Alto Internet
Exchange/Equinix at 529 Bryant, and Downtown areas. This project basically “overlays” new fiber over existing fiber
routes in the network. Existing fiber will continue to serve City facilities and commercial dark fiber customers.

Rebuild Work Completed

The route from PAIX at 529 Bryant to the Park Boulevard Substation has been completed. This phase of the project
included substructure work, fiber pulling and cabinet installation. The new fiber installed for the backbone rebuild is 312-
count single-mode fiber (2 x 144-count single-mode fiber, plus 24-count single-mode fiber).

### Why exactly 312-count? Rather than, say, 432-count (3 x 144-count)? Most of the cost of installed fiber optic cable
is in the labor of installing it, not in the cable itself. How can we know our future requirements so precisely?

Upcoming work scheduled over the next 12 months:

• Route from Park Substation to Hansen Substation

• Route from Hansen Substation to Stanford Research Park

• Additional phases/routes to be determined.

### The 2Q17 Utilities Quarterly Update (page 23).also says "12 months," but it was written 9 months ago.
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/57459

The estimated cost for the rebuild is between $500,000 and up to $1,000,000 for substructure work. Another $250,000 for
the overhead portion of the work is allocated for the project. CPAU crews are performing the equipment installation, cable
pulling and terminations. CPAU’s substructure contractor is installing the conduit and boxes.

Other Capital Improvement Projects (CIP)

In 2018, the City will complete installation of fiber optics for Public Works’ pump stations and creek monitoring at 17
locations.

### On 03-22-17, the estimate was 8 pump stations plus 3 creek monitor systems.
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/56603

### If the City had a citywide municipal FTTP network, wouldn't a FTTP connection be more than adequate for each
of these 17 locations?

For the Downtown Upgrade CIP (water and gas pipes), fiber optic conduits will be installed to support the Council’s
directive for a “Dig Once” strategy to increase the availability of fiber infrastructure in the downtown area.

--- page 5 ---

Fiber-to-the-Premises

For more than fifteen years, the City has worked to develop a business case to build a citywide Fiber-to-the-Premises
(“FTTP”) network to serve homes and business.

### If, as claimed, it started in 1999, then that's more like 19 years.

A number of business models have been evaluated. The following is a summary of the highlights to develop a network:

1999: A Request for Proposal (RFP) was issued to build citywide FTTP. There were no viable bids.

### According to CMR:331:99 (08-02-99), the technology for the proposed Universal Telecommunications System (UTS)
was not required to be FTTP, although that was the ultimate vision.
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/2084
UTS was considered at Council's 04-05-99 meeting.
                                                               6
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:49 AM
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/cityagenda/publish/citycouncil-archive/1999/990405.html

2000-2005: In 2000, the City Council approved a Fiber-to-the-Home (“FTTH”) trial to determine the feasibility of providing
citywide FTTH access in Palo Alto.

### The minutes of Council's 04-05-99 meeting seem to say that Council approved the FTTH Trial on that date.
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/cityagenda/publish/citycouncil-archive/1999/990405.html

The FTTH trial passed 230 homes

### I don't think so. To "pass" a home means to make it easy to connect the home later. I think the FTTH Trial was
designed to connect to 66 (or so) homes initially and not to connect anything else later. The original plan was to terminate
the Trial after only a year. For further
details, please see my previous comments (pages 9-10).
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/54495

and included 66 participants in the Community Center neighborhood. The purpose of the trial was to test the concept of
fiber-to-the-home. The FTTH trial proved successful (i.e., proved technical feasibility),

### The Trial proved that the City could run a fiber network, and that customers would like it. It didn't test providing TV
service using Ethernet packets.

but when initial investment and overhead expenditures were included in the calculation to create a business case, it was
not profitable for the City

### It was never intended that the FTTH Trial would provide the cost information that would be used in creating a
business case. As an independent exercise, the City contracted with consultant Uptown Services to write, with staff, 1) a
FTTH business case (2002), 2) a FTTH business plan, phase 1 (2003), and 3) a FTTH business plan, phase 2
(2004). These documents showed that a citywide municipal FTTH network was feasible financially. But then the City's
legal staff became concerned that California law might not allow the network to be financed by revenue bonds backed by
the City's electric utility, and that derailed the project. For further details, please see my previous comments (pages 10-
11).
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/54495

and the trial was ended in December 2005.

• Title: UAC Recommendation regarding Fiber to the Home Financing Options
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/5292

### This 07-19-04 staff report doesn't tell the whole story. (It also doesn't say when UAC said what it said. It was on 07-
07-04.)

### On 03-18-04, UAC passed (3.2) this motion: "The UAC recommends that the City Council authorize the formation
and construction of the fiber to the home project pursuant to the Fiber to the Home Business Plan Phase I, dated May 7,
2003, and Phase II, dated March 17, 2004, subject to an advisory vote to be placed on the November 2004 ballot. The
UAC recommends no additional funding for the project until the project is approved by the City Council. Upon approval by
Council, the UAC recommends that an expenditure of up to $120,000 be authorized for public relations and legal analysis
but not engineering design."
https://cityofpaloalto.org/cityagenda/publish/uac-meetings/3236.pdf

### On 05-05-04, UAC passed (5-0) this motion: "The UAC returns the fiber to the home project to Council with its
original recommendation intact, and requests that staff conduct a more thorough review of Options A and C, along with
accessing alternative financing which may be based upon utility related uses, and to, furthermore, research potential
partnerships."
https://cityofpaloalto.org/cityagenda/publish/uac-meetings/3455.pdf
I don't know where to find documentation on what Options A and C (and the non-preferred Options B, D, E ,and
F) were. The staff report doesn't seem to say.
https://cityofpaloalto.org/cityagenda/publish/uac-meetings/3267.pdf
There's no staff report for Council's 04-19-04 study session on funding options for FTTH, where the same options may
have been presented.
                                                              7
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:49 AM
https://cityofpaloalto.org/cityagenda/publish/citycouncil-meetings/3187.pdf
From the 07-07-04 minutes (below) Option A apparently was revenue bonds backed by electric revenues, and Option C
apparently involved certificates of participation. NOTE: This is the last time UAC minutes were verbatim.

### On 07-07-04, UAC passed (3-2) this motion: "1. Do not place advisory vote on the November ballot. 2. Halt
consideration of FTTH until a viable financial option emerges. Direct staff, over the next 6 months, to seek guidance from
the investment banking community about possible financing options and continue to monitor the progress of other
California cities in securing financing." UAC also passed (3-2) this motion: "Continuing with the FTTH Trial for one year
with an evaluation on whether to continue the trial at that time."
https://cityofpaloalto.org/cityagenda/publish/uac-meetings/3745.pdf
However, since the minutes were not verbatim, we don't know exactly what the commissioners said.

• Title: Recommendation to Terminate Fiber to the Home Trial and Discontinue Monitoring of Financing Methods in Other
California Jurisdictions
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/5684

2006-2009: In 2006, the City issued another RFP and negotiated with a consortium of private firms to build FTTP under a
public-private partnership model. In 2009, Staff recommended to Council termination of the RFP process and negotiations
due to the lack of financial resources of the private firms.

2010: The City responded to Google Fiber’s Request for Information.

2011: Staff worked with two telecommunications consulting firm to evaluate the expansion of the existing dark fiber
network for its commercial dark fiber licensing enterprise and also to expand the network on an incremental basis to
attract a “last mile” FTTP builder and operator. This is a link to the staff report provided to the Utilities Advisory
Commission in June of 2011, and the Council Finance Committee in November of 2011:

• Title: Provide Feedback on the Development of a Business Plan for the Citywide Ultra-High-Speed Broadband System
Project
http://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/27421

2012: Staff worked with a telecommunications consulting firm to study the feasibility of an alternative model for citywide
FTTP which would rely on homeowners paying on a voluntary basis for some or all of the cost to build-out the existing
dark fiber network into residential neighborhoods. The name of this model is “user-financed” FTTP. The analysis
concluded that an opt-in FTTP network can be built using a combination of upfront user fees and City financing; however,
there is very little probability of the debt incurred being repaid through operations. Ongoing subsidies would be required,
very likely in excess of surpluses in the Fiber Optics Fund reserve generated by licensing dark fiber. The

--- page 6 ---

study was supported by a market survey which concluded there was limited interest among residents in this model.

### The staff report said (PDF page 22) that 36 percent of Palo Alto homeowners would be willing to invest in FTTP,
even if the connect fee were $3,000 and the monthly fee were between $50 and $250.
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/30112
To me, that's not "limited interest." That's significant pent-up demand.

This is a link to the staff report provided to the Utilities Advisory Commission in June 2012:

• Title: Request for Feedback Concerning the Dark Fiber Optic Backbone Network
http://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/30112

2013 - 2015: The City Council started it’s

### its.

“Technology and the Connected City” initiative and directed staff to prepare a Fiber-to-the-Premises Master Plan and a
Wireless Network Plan. In 2014, a Citizen Advisory Committee was appointed by the City Manager. The Citizen Advisory
Committee is structured in a way for individual citizens to share opinions and perspectives, study issues, and develop
recommendations. In 2015, staff worked with a telecommunications consulting firm, CTC Technology & Energy, to
                                                               8
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:49 AM
prepare these plans and they were provided in this September 28, 2015 Council staff report:

• Title: Discussion of Fiber-to-the-Premises and Direction on Next Steps for Fiber and City Wireless Services
http://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/49073

At the September 28, 2015 Council meeting, staff and the consultant reviewed these plans with the Council Members. As
a result, a Council Motion directed staff to pursue several initiatives, which are described in this August 16, 2016 staff
report which updated the Council about the various activities from the Motion:

• Title: Fiber-to-the-Premises update on City Council Motions and Google Fiber
http://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/53363

2014 - 2016: Google Fiber announced Palo Alto as a potential “Google Fiber City” for a build-out of their fiber optic
network. Since early 2014, staff worked with Google personnel to complete an extensive checklist process regarding City
infrastructure and processes, in addition to negotiating agreements for a project description, utility pole attachments,
encroachment permits, environmental reviews and other agreements for cost recovery for use of staff time. Based on
Council direction, staff also worked with Google to develop a “co-build” concept to explore the
feasibility of building a City network in parallel with Google’s network. In July 2016, Google announced a delay in their
plans for up to six (6) months to build a fiber optic network in Silicon Valley, which also included Mountain View, San Jose,
Santa Clara and Sunnyvale. Google advised staff that they are exploring more innovative ways to deploy their network,
which may include implementing wireless technologies. Co-build discussions were also delayed. At this time, there is no
activity related to Google Fiber.

### This paragraph was originally written long ago. By now, it should be clear that Google Fiber is never going to get
back to doing FTTP (or what it might claim is a wireless equivalent).

In the summer of 2016, the City approved permits for two cabinets so AT&T can begin to deploy their “AT&T Fiber”
service. AT&T is exploring deployment of additional cabinets in 2017-18. On December 12, 2016, staff provided Council
with an informational update regarding Fiber-to-the-Premises and wireless initiatives:

• Title: Update for Fiber-to-the-Premises and Wireless Initiatives
http://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/55016

2017

April 5, 2017: Staff provided the UAC with three options for the City’s fiber utility:1. Future Plans for Fiber and Broadband
Expansion;

• OPTION 1: Municipally-Owned Fiber-to-the-Premises (FTTP);

• OPTION 2: Municipally-Owned Fiber-to-the-Node (FTTN) Network with Neighborhood/Private Last Mile Provision;

• OPTION 3: Pause Municipal FTTP Development Efforts; Increase Transparency and Predictability for Third Party
Providers.

2. Expand Wi-Fi to Unserved City Facilities; and Discontinue Consideration of City-Provided Wi-Fi in Commercial Areas
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/56779

The UAC made a motion to recommend Council approval of Option 2, taking into account UAC feedback on that option
including the idea of a neighborhood beta where the City would build to the node and extend fiber and/or wireless to one
neighborhood to gather data, experiment new applications, and explore partnerships.

### I'd recommend reviewing my TRANSCRIPT & COMMENTS of the 04-05-17 UAC meeting, Item IX.2 (pages 92-124).
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/57737
I think Commissioner Ballantine's idea of the beta, which he proposed as an informal amendment to the main motion to do
FTTN (2:22:00), and which the commissioners apparently accepted, was that the beta would be FTTP. ("If we all lined up
with something that sounded like Option number 2, let's figure out how to also include an element of [Option] number 1,
that gets us learning in a direction." (2:19:23))



                                                              9
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:49 AM
The UAC also approved the recommendations on wireless expansion, excluding extension of Wi-Fi to the golf course and
discontinue consideration of City Wi-Fi in commercial areas.

May 23, 2017: Staff provided the Council Policy and Services Committee with a report recommending Option 2 for the
Municipal Fiber-to-the-Node Network (FTTN) for Fiber and Broadband Expansion; and (2) Expand Wi-Fi to Unserved City
Facilities and Discontinue Consideration of City-Provided Wi-Fi in Commercial Areas

• Title: Expansion Plan for Fiber Optic Network and Wireless Network (ID # 7735)
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/57822

The Policy and Services Committee approved the wireless recommendations and elected Option 2 (FTTN). Staff was also
directed to:

• Define more clearly the goals of Fiber-to-the-Node (FTTN);

• Reach out to other communities on approaches post Google and share strategies and funding models;

• Include ROI estimates;

• Present a rollout strategy w with an estimate of how may homes will be passed; and

### Yes, Council Member Tom DuBois asked how many homes FTTN would pass. (See the 05-03-17 minutes, page
50.)
https://cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/58458
I'm guessing that none would be passed by fiber (in the FTTP sense). Is he asking how many homes would be in a
position to be easily connected to the network with the wireless "equivalent" of fiber between the home and a node?

• Draft a communication strategy.

August 21, 2017: Staff provided the Council with a report for a work plan for Fiber-to-the-Premises and Wireless Network.
Staff, UAC and the Policy and Services Committee recommended Council to:

1. Pursue a Municipal Fiber-to-the-Node network for fiber and broadband expansion; and

2. Expand Wi-Fi to unserved City facilities and discontinue consideration of City-provided Wi-Fi in commercial areas.

• Title: Work Plan for Fiber-to-the-Premises and Wireless Network (ID # 7616)
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/61084

--- page 8 ---

The Council passed a Motion directing staff to:

A. Develop a business case for a municipal-provided Fiber-to-the-Node (FTTN) network for fiber and broadband
expansion (“Option 2”); engage a management consultant to develop the business case, funding plans, identify potential
partners and/or service providers, and high level network design; and engage an engineering firm to design a FTTN
network including an expansion option to build a citywide Fiber-to-the-Premises (FTTP) network; and

B. Expand Wi-Fi to unserved City facilities and discontinue consideration of City provided Wi-Fi in commercial areas; and

C. Expediently return to Council with Ordinances that will lower the City’s FTTN construction costs such as a Dig Once,
String Once, Multi-unit housing, and Microtrenching.

Next Steps

Staff has been working with the CAC in preparing a Request for Proposals ("RFP") to retain a management consultant to
complete the above-noted items in the Council's directive. It is anticipated the RFP will be issued in the first quarter of
2018. Staff has also been engaged in exploratory discussions with third party telecommunication firms regarding potential
fiber and wireless deployment plans and public-private partnership opportunities. Staff is also developing staff
reassignments and seeking UAC feedback to expedite advancement of Council’s motion.
                                                            10
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:49 AM

Wireless Projects

• On November 30, 2017, a Request for Proposals (RFP) was issued by the Office of Emergency Services (OES) for a
Mobile Broadband Network for Public Safety (“in-vehicle” mobile broadband access). The Fiber/Wireless Core Team
worked with OES staff and wireless consultant to prepare the RFP. Final bids were due on December 18, 2017, but no
bids were submitted. Staff is evaluating next steps.

• Expansion of OES Point-to-Multi-Point Network: OES and the Fiber/Wireless Team are working to finalize a site in the
Montebello Reservoir area to locate a pole for additional equipment to improve the coverage of the existing OES network.

• Based on an August 21, 2017 Council Motion, a project was initiated to expand the City’s OverAir Wi-Fi Hotspots to
specific unserved City facilities at portions of the Cubberley Community Center, Lucie Stern Community Center, the café
at the Golf Course and Lytton Plaza.




                                                           11
City of Palo Alto   I City Clerk's Office I   2/2/2018 10:34 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Winifred Ernst <winifred.ernst@gmail.com>
Sent:                              Thursday, February 01, 2018 1:55 PM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           9-1-1 Response and Budget Cuts



Dear City Council,

I recently learned about the budget cuts and the increased frequency of level zero response in Palo Alto, along
with the non-reciprocity policy with Menlo Park and Mountain View.

        ~athletic, and a quick actor. He also has
        -                      We count on 9-1-1 response for
        even thou h I've informed and trained ever one I know · ·



                                                 Level zero-no one available to respond-- is a
        scary, scary thing for me. All it takes ~rise stomach bug, and an inability to keep
        down his medicine for 30 minutes, f o r - to need a shot that I may or may not be able
        to prepare successfully.

Thank you for taking this budget concern ve1y, ve1y seriously when you discuss it on Saturday. My son may
depend on it.

Sincerely,

Winifred Ernst
650-404-7088




                                                           1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:28 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Sarah Graff <sarah.elyse.graff@gmail.com>
Sent:                          Wednesday, January 31, 2018 9:54 PM
To:                            Council, City
Subject:                       against the Arastradero/Charleston corridor project



Dear City Council members,

I want to express my great concern over the proposed project on Arastradero-Charleston. The traffic on this
corridor at peak times is already problematic. Spending two years disrupting traffic with very costly
construction for superficial improvements seems like a poor use of public funds.

I would much rather see this money go toward improving the safety of the train tracks.

Thank you for your work for our community.

Sarah Graff
1070 Cerrito Way




                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:28 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Heidi Axtell <Haxtell@aol.com>
Sent:                           Thursday, February 01, 2018 7:32 AM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        Arastradero corridor


Please don't move ahead with the next phase of road construction "improvements" on Arastradero. Leave well enough
alone. I live on Maybell and have to deal with this area all the time.

I frequent the YMCA on Ross Road and that is a mess. The sidewalk bulbouts are more dangerous than safe. The speed
bumps alone get people to drive slower.

Stop Arastradero road construction now and use the $$ elsewhere where real, needed improvements will enhance our
city.
Heidi Axtell
Maybell Ave.




                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:30 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                              jeffrey lipkin <repjal@att.net>
Sent:                              Thursday, February 01, 2018 8:49 AM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           Arastradero/Charleston finances


It is ridiculous to spend the millions of dollars contemplated for the next phase of this project. You have better things to
do. Shame on you.

Sent from my iPhone




                                                              1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:29 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Joe U <joeu1218@gmail.com>
Sent:                          Thursday, February 01, 2018 8:08 AM
To:                            Council, City
Subject:                       Arastradero/Charleston road modifications comment



To all council members:
There has been some discussion in our community email group about the planned multi‐million dollar changes
proposed for the Arastradero/Charleston corridor. I am in agreement with many of my neighbors that the
proposed changes are not money well spent. It isn’t clear that spending these monies will in any way help
anyone who drives on Arastradero; it might actually make things worse.

I propose leaving this corridor unchanged for now. I’m sure there are many other traffic related modification
throughout the city that would be a better use for this money.

Please do NOT go forward with your plans to modify Arastradero! Reallocate this money for road
improvements that need it most.
Regards,
Joseph Urbassik
4128 Willmar Dr.
Palo Alto 94306
joeu1218@gmail.com
650‐714‐9610




                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:29 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Elizabeth Wong <elizabethwong2009@gmail.com>
Sent:                         Thursday, February 01, 2018 8:10 AM
To:                           Baltay, Peter; Gooyer, Robert; alexanderlew@att.net
Cc:                           Council, City
Subject:                      ARB Hearing for 620 Emerson St on Feb 1, 2018
Attachments:                  scanarb620em.pdf



Please see attached regarding 620 Emerson St. ARB hearing is today 2/1/18.

Thanks,

Elizabeth Wong

650 814 3051




                                                       1
February 1, 2018

Architectural Review Board (ARB)
City of Palo Alto
250 Hamilton Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94301

Subject:       Objections of YO LLC to ARB Approval of Application 17PLN-00331
               620 Emerson Street, Palo Alto



YO LLC requests that the ARB deny approval of subject project. YO LLC offers the ARB the
following considerations as part of its evaluation of the project that are not discussed as part of
the ARB Staff Report (ID# 8690) prepared by the City of Palo Alto .

1) Project Ownership

   YO LLC has a contract to purchase the property which predates Applicant's ownership of
   this property. Approval of this application and the proposed demolition and development
   work proposed to follow may have to be reversed depending upon the outcome of the
   pending litigation.

    While litigation remains active for the site, it is inappropriate for any land use
    decisions to be considered.

2) Elimination of On-Site Parking

    YO LLC objects to the elimination of the existing parking areas on the property by allowing
    the applicant to pay in lieu and to construct a building which eliminates such parking.

    YO LLC's experiences in working with the City of Palo Alto on development projects within
    the Downtown Core area appear to demonstrate inconsistencies in the manner in which the
    subject application is being considered by the staff resulting in unfair treatment to the
    development community.

    YO LLC's past experience in working with City staff on projects within the Downtown Core
    show a historically strong preference by the City to preserve on-site parking for
    development project to help minimize parking demand. The existing site currently has
    three (3) parking spaces that serve the site from its West side access from the High Street.
    The proposed site improvements result in the need for four (4) parking spaces.

    No project within the Downtown Core should receive a recommendation by staff for
    approval without exhausting all options to preserve either a portion of a site's
    existing parking or to fully-park a project to the City's parking policies.
     To:    Palo Alto - Architectural Review Board
Subject:    ARB Application 1?PLN-00331 - 620 Emerson Street
  Date:     February 1, 2018
  Page:     2 of 7


   The site design team only considered surface-level parking options. There appears to be
   no design consideration by the applicant nor request from the City for site design
   considerations that utilize modern parking technology such as mechanical lifts to partially
   or fully park the site. The following are recently completed projects within the Downtown
   Core that were developed in partnership with City staff that take advantage of modern
   parking equipment such as parking lifts, underground parking lifts, vehicle elevators to
   access sub grade parking, or rotating equipment to reduce drive aisle widths on-site:

    •      240 Hamilton Avenue (Turn Around Rotating Entry)
    •      102 University Avenue (Car Elevator)
    •      646 Waverley Street (Parking Lifts)

    Although the cost of parking technology solutions may increase the financial burden
    of a project to a developer, the additional cost to preserve on-site parking should not
    be a deciding factor in the final design of a site, especially when the City has a proven
    track record of requiring developers to consider such solutions as part of their
    projects to help preserve parking within the Downtown Core.

    In addition to parking technology equipment, there appears to be no discussion or even
    consideration by the applicant for subgrade parking that can be accessed easily from the
    existing High Street access . The use of a Car Elevator providing access to a subgrade
    parking basement is a viable option for this site to not only preserve but expand parking for
    the site. Even the use of Subgrade Mechanical Lifts would allow for at least the three (3)
    existing parking spaces to be preserved on-site.

    With so many viable parking options still available for consideration by the applicant
    and the City, YO LLC requests that the ARB immediately reject this application.

    Furthermore, as a Palo Alto property investor, and developer that is wholeheartedly
    invested within the Palo Alto community, we find the inconsistencies in the way in which this
    project is being reviewed and fast tracked through the development process completely
    unfair and request that the ARB not even consider this project for discussion without
    additional vetting by the City. We also request that the City provide additional information
    within future staff reports related to this project as to why the consideration of alternative
    parking strategies was not considered for this project.

    In addition to the inconsistencies by City staff in the handling of the review process, we also
    note the following additional items :

    (a) The elimination of the on-site parking is not permitted by Code. The site has 3 on-site
        parking spaces that have been used as parking for Stanford Florists personnel and its
        delivery trucks for decades. It even has a three car rolling garage door for this
        purpose. Therefore, it is disingenuous to say that the on-site parking of at least 3
        vehicles is not feasible .
     To: Palo Alto -Architectural Review Board
Subject: ARB Application 1?PLN-00331 - 620 Emerson Street
  Date: February 1, 2018
  Page: 3 of 7


   (b) Planning's submittal of the traffic analysis for this site was emailed to YO LLC at 5:31 pm
       on January 31, 2018, less than 15 hours before this ARB hearing. YO LLC did not have
       an opportunity to either review or consult with professionals regarding the validity of
       such analysis. Further YO LLC did not have the benefit of having the drawings
       received by email to be printed in large, legible form

   (c) Even if the fourth parking space is unworkable, there remain 3 working existing in-situ
       parking spaces that should be kept at the project site.


   (d) Applicant cites the need for space to place the mandatory garbage, recycling and
       compost bins as the reason why on-site parking needs to be eliminated. It is
       inconceivable that the mandatory bins would completely prevent on-site parking. In
       fact, the fourth space, shown in one of the Applicant's parking analysis drawings, could
       be used to house such bins.

3) Parking Demand by Planned Land Use - Loading Zone Impacts

   YO LLC recognizes the City's Downtown Core Land Use policies try to provide an equitable
   approach in the creation or preservation of parking supply but when a new project is
   proposed that clearly defines its intended land use, Restaurant and Catering, the
   consideration of parking generated by that Land Use should not be ignored.

   Restaurant uses require accessible Loading Zones for food deliveries. Emerson Street
   between Hamilton Avenue and Forest Avenue has no Loading Zones that can be utilized by
   the proposed Land Use. This will result in double parking impacts along Emerson Street
   that severely impact the operations of business on this street block. High Street between
   Hamilton Avenue and Forest Avenue also lacks loading zones. The use of the existing
   driveway and alleyway will impact existing businesses if blocked by rear-site loading.
   Hamilton Avenue provides a Loading Zone along the front of the Epiphany Palo Alto Hotel
   but that site is inconvenient for deliveries to 620 Emerson Street The existing site is not
   impacted by Loading Zone issues because it provides three (3) existing on-site parking
   spaces and has additional in-facility access through the rear garage doors that serve the
   site.

    The elimination of on-site parking as currently proposed by the site will have a
    significantly adverse effect to businesses along Emerson Street.

4) Independent Restroom Facilities

   YO LLC objects because the proposed conditions of approval do not fully incorporate the
   obligation of the Applicant to restore the subject building with compliant bathrooms if there
   is a change in ownership of the 620 Emerson property, as set forth in the letter at page 61
   of the ARB Packet.
     To: Palo Alto - Architectural Review Board
Subject: ARB Application 1?PLN-00331 - 620 Emerson Street
  Date: February 1, 2018
  Page: 4 of 7

   Any project built within the City of Palo Alto should comply to the requirements of the
   City's existing land use policies. A newly developed site should include restroom
   facilities independent of separate structures. Even if it is the intention of the
   applicant to operate new uses within the subject site in conjunction with adjacent
   properties, ensuring that the site can operate independently in the future will help
   allow future land use choices on the site. At a minimum, the adjacent Epiphany Hotel
   should include in perpetuity access easements for the use of restroom facility or any
   other utilities that are intended to jointly serve both sides, and those access
   easements should be presented in conjunction with any proposed land use decision
   for the subject property. Anything short of such requirements demonstrates a failure
   of the City Planning Department to uphold the land use policies of the City.

5) YO LLC objects to special treatment the City has granted Nobu restaurant because it is a
   very popular and well regarded restaurant and to Larry Ellison, the owner, because of his
   immense status in the business community.

   YO LLC strives to improve the quality of life Palo Alto for residents and businesses. YO
   LLC does not receive special treatment by the City in the fast tracking and side- stepping
   of City Land Use policies, nor should Nobu Restaurant or Larry Ellison.



Sincerely,




YO LLC,
Elizabeth Wong, Manager

Copy: Palo Alto City Council
     To:            Palo Alto - Architectural Review Board
Subject:            ARB Application 17PLN-00331 - 620 Emerson Street
  Date:             February 1, 2018
  Page:             5 of7
                                                          EXHIBIT A
                                   Montabla Architects On-Site Surface Only Parking Analysis
                                                         (Page 1of3)

   90 DEGREE PARKING SCENARIO (4 STALLS REQUIRED)
   CONFLICTS:
   I, EXISTING ALLEY WAY CANNOT MEET BACl(UP WIDTH REQUIREMENTS
   tREQ=i25'~Q"'   EXIST!NG ALLEY= 20'..0i
                                                                         tiAMll..TOHAVENUE
   2 DUE TO JOG IN 16A HAWILTOt.l PROPERTY (YEUOW1 4 STAlLS CANNOT FIT
   (CANNOT CROSS NEIGHSOffS PROl'ERT'f)

   3. LIGHT POLE IN Al.l.EY




                                                                                               H0BUPA 620
                                                                                               ::..-:;..;,.',!
                                                                                               ~~tw.I.'(«




                                                                                               NOT FDR
                                                                                               cot:ST1l!J£T,Cf.I




                                                                                               ...-...   '-1~. 0.'-">"• •




             2 ~~;;i<_~.~'?,W ENLARGED PLAN DETAIL .
                                                                                               SITEPl.AN



                                                                                               At_OL
     To: Palo Alto - Architectural Review Board
Subject: ARB Application 17PLN-00331 - 620 Emerson Street
  Date: February 1, 2018
  Page: 6 of?
                                                    EXHIBIT A
                             Montabla Architects On-Site Surface Only Parking Analysis
                                                   (Page 2 of 3)

  60 DEGREE PARKING SCENARIO ~4 STALLS REQUIRED)
  CONFLICTS :
  -l STALLS WOULD EUMINATE ABILITY TO HAVE A NEW COMPLIANT1AASH ROOM

  2 PROPERTY CANNOT FIT 4 STALLS AT 60 DEGREE ANGLE                     HAMll.TOHAVE:rlU£


  3. DUE TO JOG IN 164 HAMILTON PROPERTY (YELLOW) 4 STALLS CANNOT FIT
  (CAN~OT   CROSS NEIGHBOR'S PROPERT'YJ




       : 2 ~C!<,~.~~W ENLARGED PLAN DETAIL ,

                                                                                            1 SITE PL.A_N _ _
                                                                                              1.<:&1•   W •' J
                                                                                                                 AUtL
     To: Palo Alto - Architectural Review Board
Subject: ARB Application 17PLN-00331 - 620 Emerson Street
  Date: February 1, 2018
  Page: 7 of 7
                                                 EXHIBIT A
                          Montabla Architects On-Site Surface Only Parking Analysis
                                                (Page 3 of 3)




                  60 DEGREE PARKING SCENARIO (4 STALLS REQUIRED)
                  CONFLICTS:
                   1 STALLS \lllOULO EUMINATE ABILITY TO HAVE A NEW COMPLIANT TAASH ROOM

                   2. PROPERTY CANNOT FIT 4 STALLS AT 60 DEGREE ANGLE

                   3 DUE TO JOG IN i64 HAMILTON PROPERTY      tYEUOWl. 'I STALLS CANNOT FIT
                                                                                              /
                   tCANNOT CROSS NEIGt-tBOR·s PROPERTY)




                                                                                                  HOBU PA 6:>0
                                                                                                  ~;_;t.'.':,·




      PER PAMC 18.§4 TABLE 3
      STALlSIZE 85FTX 19.i'FTl2STA1.LSATWAU.S9FTX                                                 GRDllllOflOQRl'LllH
      197FTj
      AISLE WIOTI-1 BETVVEEN STALLS (WIDTH OF ALLEY lN THIS
      CASE)• 1a--0~                                                                               At11 _
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/5/2018 4:08 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Richard Karp <dick_karp@yahoo.com>
Sent:                          Monday, February 05, 2018 2:57 PM
To:                            Council, City
Subject:                       Are abandoned car reports ever acted on?
Attachments:                   0204181620.jpg; 0204181620a.jpg



Hello,

Attached are two photos of a camper that has been parked on the frontage road on San Antonio just
west of Alma St (near the San Antonio caltrain station). It has been there now for about a month in
my estimation. The camper has no license plates.

I reported this camper using the abandoned vehicle form on the city website about three weeks
ago. When nothing happened, I reported it again on the abandoned vehicle phone line about two
weeks ago. Nothing still has been done about it, as far as I can tell. .

Why bother even having a way to report these vehicles if no action is ever taken? Using our city
streets as a long term parking lot detracts from the lifestyle and attractiveness of Palo Alto. It should
be even more discouraged near a train station. Council needs to check into this and make sure that
staff is doing their job properly. .

Thanks,

Richard Karp
334 Diablo Ct

P.S. There are a number of cars parked behind the camper which also seem to have been there a
long time, although I haven't been tracking them specifically.




                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:28 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                          miriam teeter <m.teeter@hotmail.com>
Sent:                          Wednesday, January 31, 2018 9:48 PM
To:                            Council, City
Subject:                       Bike Blvd construction on Ross Rd.....and I hope NOT on any other road! Disastrous!!!
                               Dangerous!!!



Ross Road planning is a disaster!! How in the world are bikes and cars supposed to fit? How can this be called
a "bike boulivard?" It is SO dangerous. Dangerous to pedestrians, too!! Who in the world planned
this???? Terrible!




                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:49 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Karen Saracino <karen@saracino.com>
Sent:                            Thursday, February 01, 2018 9:21 PM
To:                              sarah.ratliff@gcinc.com; Council, City
Subject:                         Bike Lane on Amarillo Avenue



Dear City Council Members and Sarah Ratliff,
I am distressed about the slotted hump and raised crossing that is about to be built near my house on Amarillo
Avenue. A bike bump to slow traffic down like the ones on Greer Road (North of Oregon Expressway) seems
reasonable but the raised crossing is a terrible idea. I drive on Ross Road twice a day and load/unload my kids
into my car right near the bump and it feels VERY UNSAFE. I fear for my children's safety as cars swerve out
as they exit the narrow bump. Backing out past the hump twice a day on Ross Road has also left me vulnerable
to oncoming cars and bikes--- there is a blind spot there where there never used to be one. I DO NOT WANT
THIS IN FRONT OF MY HOUSE. Before anymore slotted bumps are built— please consider my
request.

Another concern is that it is visually unpleasant. The "Bump 5mph" sign that jets out on the street is an eyesore.
Not to mention, we will be losing two valuable parking spots.

What can I do at this point to STOP this bump from being erected? I did not know it would be this dangerous
and ugly until I saw it and drove through it first-hand on Ross Road.

I implore City Council to drive and bike on Ross Road. And please, come to Amarillo Avenue and SEE what
will happen to our street.

Thank you for your time reading this letter.
Karen Saracino

Take a look at this photo— better yet, go to Ross Rd and LOOK at it in person. It looks terrible. It is hard to see
anything and what you do see are ugly dirt patches.




                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:49 AM




                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:46 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Lois Lin <mloislin@yahoo.com>
Sent:                             Thursday, February 01, 2018 4:50 PM
To:                               Council, City
Subject:                          Charleston/Arastradero


Dear Council,

Please do not waste money adding unnecessary curbs and islands on the corridor. The only thing that needs to be fixed
is the corner of Arastradero where it merges onto Miranda/Foothill at the right turn line, which does not work! Please
don't make our street like the fiasco on Ross Road. Painted lines work just fine, are inexpensive, and can be altered if
necessary in the future.

Thank you for your consideration of saving money and making our neighborhood better.

Lois Lin, 4049 Orme Street




                                                            1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:28 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Jim Colton <james.colton10@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Wednesday, January 31, 2018 9:53 PM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         Charleston/Arastradero



Dear City Council Member,

I travel this corridor multiple times a day. It is a mess, especially the sections that change from two lanes to one
and back again which results in drivers trying to get ahead before one of the lanes is ending. I am appalled that
we have spend so much money and angst on this section of roadway and we are now about to spend millions of
good money after bad. Let's leave this alone and maybe some day we can come up with a better solution.

Jim Colton
Georgia Ave




                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/5/2018 4:08 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Eugene Zukowsky <eandzz@stanford.edu>
Sent:                           Monday, February 05, 2018 10:28 AM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        Charleston-Arastradero




We’ve lived on Maybell Way since 1969 and have seen the many changes that have occurred in our
neighborhood and the entire city. We use the Charleston-Arastradero corridor very frequently and we think that
the changes that have been made are a disaster. The traffic backs up frequently. Cars idle and spew emissions
into the air and drivers get frustrated. The additional proposed changes will make the situation worse. The cost
and the disruption to our lives will be enormous. Palo Alto has a budget shortfall. Is this the way we should be
spending money? We urge you not to go ahead with the proposal to spend millions of dollars on this project.

Zita and Gene Zukowsky




                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/5/2018 8:38 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Ron Wilensky <rwilensky@yahoo.com>
Sent:                          Monday, February 05, 2018 12:22 AM
To:                            Filseth, Eric (Internal); Kou, Lydia; DuBois, Tom; Holman, Karen; Fine, Adrian; Kniss, Liz
                               (internal); Scharff, Gregory (internal); Tanaka, Greg; Wolbach, Cory
Cc:                            Keene, James; Gitelman, Hillary; jonathan.lat@cityofpaloalto.org; Owen, Graham;
                               Council, City
Subject:                       Comment on CUP Application No. 17PLN-00446 for Community Center at 305 North
                               California Avenue



Dear Members of the Palo Alto City Council:

Please do not approve a Conditional Use Permit (CUP) that would allow the church at
305 North California Avenue to operate as a community center for 500 people or more,
Monday to Thursday 9AM to 10PM and Friday and Saturday 9AM to 11PM. A community
center of this size and level of activity is inappropriate in quiet, residential neighborhood
zoned R-1 (10,000) and does not meet the requirements in PAMC 18.76.010.

I urge you to weigh carefully whether people writing in favor of the community center
live in the neighborhood or are even residents of Palo Alto. I think you will find that most
are not Palo Alto residents and those who are residents do not live nearby. These
supporters of the community center are asking for its benefits but do not suffer its
adverse effects on bike safety, traffic congestion and parking.


Best regards,
Ron Wilensky
Resident of Old Palo Alto




                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:49 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Robin Mullery <robin@cloudmail.us>
Sent:                            Thursday, February 01, 2018 8:42 PM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         Concern re: Fire department reduction



Hello City Council,

I am writing to express concern about what I read in this Mercury News article about the 11 firefighter position
that have been cut in Palo Alto.
https://www.mercurynews.com/2017/10/19/palo-alto-cuts-11-firefighter-jobs-after-stanford-reduces-contract/.

Given that in January, (1) we had several occasions when simultaneous 9-1-1 calls resulted in the PAFD
reaching level zero (there were no units available to respond to emergencies!) and (2) there were increased
response times I think alternative budget cuts *need* to be seriously considered.

My husband and I have two small children and an elderly mother who live in Palo Alto. It seems
unconscionable to cut basic emergency services of which the youngest and oldest members of our community
are most likely to need.

Please take up this issue and look for other budget cuts.

Kind regards,
Robin




                                                            1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/7/2018 1:24 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Stephanie Munoz <stephanie@dslextreme.com>
Sent:                          Tuesday, February 06, 2018 4:59 AM
To:                            Palo Alto Daily Post
Cc:                            WILPF Peninsula Palo Alto; David Werner; Court Skinner; Council, City; info
Subject:                       conscription



Dear Editor

The Post recently had an article about a journalist who claimed that Jane Fonda shouldn't have
criticized US war policy in VietNam. I thought it was good to help the Catholics being persecuted
there, but forcing our own young men give up their lives so that some foreign people could live in
freedom seemed even worse. When President Clinton, who evaded the draft himself, renewed the
draft law and arbitrarily added "medical personnel" , that is, my son, my daughter, my son-in-law and
my daughter-in-law, I was sorry I hadn't spoken up for all those other mothers who lost their sons.


Today we see thousands of veterans, mentally damaged by the experience of killing and seeing their
friends die, jobless and homeless, while the rest of us prosper, and the President plays chicken with
his opposite number in N?orth Korea, and the Vice-president brags about how we won't let
Venezuela be run by a dictator. That's outrageous!! Shouldn't we as a nation build homes for our
veterans on our unused military bases so they can be healed by national love and concern? Who has
a better right?
Stephanie Munoz 101 Alma, apt. 701 248-1842.




                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/5/2018 8:31 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Margie Cain <margiecain@rocketmail.com>
Sent:                          Sunday, February 04, 2018 9:43 AM
To:                            Council, City
Cc:                            Owen, Graham; Lait, Jonathan
Subject:                       Cosider Safety First



I am writing to the City Council because I am a neighbor of the First Baptist Church. I know that the
City Council will be considering a CUP application for the Church to become a Community Center. I
am sure the programs currently using the church are wonderful programs that do benefit some
portion of the community but I believe the big picture should not be based on the sweetness of the
program but on the safety of the community as a whole. I have to ask the Council members if they
have actually visited the First Baptist location. If you have then you would notice that there are just
10 parking spaces on the church grounds. Three of the ten spaces are reserved for the nursery
school, 1 for the pastor and 1 for the doctor conducting business at the facility. That leaves just 5
open spaces. From what we understand, two days a week iSing has 80 girls dropped off and
picked up after school for lessons. We have no idea how many more cars are dropping off and
picking up between the parents of the preschool, the patients of the doctors, the music school, Tango
lessons and other dancing groups but sharing 5 parking spaces among all of them is ridiculous.
Parents are forced to park in the bike lanes and around the surrounding neighborhoods. If you go by
on one of the heavily rented days during the school year, you will see parents double and triple
parked. They park illegally on corners ( blocking visibility of people trying to make a right or left hand
turn onto North California from South Court) and some cars just stop right in the middle of North
California to drop their children off and pick them up. You add the fact that Paly students are
riding their bikes home from school on Bryant and Jordan kids on North California (both streets are
City designated bike routes), and it makes for a crazy situation with an accident waiting to happen. I
find it ironic that the City Transportation department is doing their best to make North
California safer by adding wide bike lanes in both directions and then you might consider
adding hundreds of cars using those same bike lines right during the prime after school
hours. In a typical afternoon, you can spot numerous kids running back and forth across the
street and kids on their bikes weaving in and out between cars. It is a scary sight.

Safety for our youth should be our number one concern. I don't really understand adding another
community center considering the city already has 3 centers along a 2 mile stretch of Middlefield
Road but if you do decide on this church becoming a community center then please make if safe for
everyone. Without sufficient parking, no matter how sweet you think the iSing is, it would be reckless
to allow this facility to continue being used the way it is.

Thank you,
Margie Cain
(650) 387-2477




                                                     1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 1:25 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Jeanne Fleming <jfleming@metricus.net>
Sent:                          Thursday, February 01, 2018 3:05 PM
To:                            Gitelman, Hillary
Cc:                            Clerk, City; Council, City; Architectural Review Board
Subject:                       Does Verizon have a CPCN



Dear Hillary Gitleman,

Please consider this my formal request that you provide me with documentation that Verizon currently
has a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity (CPCN) valid in Palo Alto.

If you do not have such documentation—or if you know that Verizon does not have a valid CPCN—I
would appreciate your informing me.

Thank you for your cooperation. Please let me know if you have any questions.

Sincerely,

Jeanne Fleming

Jeanne Fleming, PhD
jFleming@Metricus.net
650-325-5151




                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:31 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Shawna Doughman <shawnadoughman@gmail.com>
Sent:                             Thursday, February 01, 2018 9:31 AM
To:                               Council, City
Subject:                          Emergency Services


I am dismayed to hear of the current situation with emergency service staff levels. If we have already had experiences of
not meeting needs in our community, as well as dropped reciprocity from our surrounding towns, we are in a dire
situation that must be addressed. Please examine our city spendings to see where budgets can be cut without impacting
life saving needs. Thank you.

Shawna Doughman

Sent from my iPhone




                                                            1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:33 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                               Dee DeLeeuw <deedeleeuw1@gmail.com>
Sent:                               Thursday, February 01, 2018 12:11 PM
To:                                 Council, City
Subject:                            Enforcement of Parking Ban on El Camino


Good morning,

I’ve been meaning to write this note for over a year and only finally getting around to it.

I’ve been a resident of Palo Alto for years, owning a home in South Palo Alto for the past 7 years.

I am absolutely appalled by the number of camper vans littering El Camino Real and many of its side streets. I am
writing as a taxpayer and a resident to demand enforcement of various parking laws which prohibit overnight parking (I
believe the max is 3 days) as well as folks living in these vans on city streets. There are literally gas cans, generators etc.
littering the streets. It would be bad enough if this was simply an eyesore, but it is absolutely a safety issue. My kids do
not feel safe walking in front of Stanford campus, and I don’t either. I have read and heard rumors that the city was
finally going to crack down on this known problem, but have not seen anything done at all and the situation is getting
worse.

It is not lost on me as I write a $20k property tax bill and, recently, paid a large fine on a parking ticket I received on
California Avenue (I deserved the ticket, quickly enforced by Palo Alto police within 20 minutes of me parking
accidentally, but illegally) that this lack of enforcement is absolutely unacceptable.

As a resident and taxpayer, I demand to understand, please, the City of Palo Alto’s plan to deal with this.

Thank you,
Dee Dante
(408) 431‐2350




                                                               1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:49 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Joyce <JNELSEN@msn.com>
Sent:                          Thursday, February 01, 2018 9:06 PM
To:                            Council, City
Subject:                       First Baptist Church conditional use permit



When will the above topic be on the Palo Alto City Council agenda?

Thank you,
Joyce Nelsen




                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:27 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Loy Martin <loymartin@icloud.com>
Sent:                             Wednesday, January 31, 2018 9:10 PM
To:                               Council, City
Subject:                          First Baptist Church of Palo Alto



Dear Council Members,

         After stints as both an undergraduate and a faculty member at Stanford, I moved to Palo Alto for good
thirty five years ago. This is the first time I have written a letter to the governing council of the city I consider
my home. I write now after learning that our next door neighbor, the First Baptist Church of Palo Alto, has
applied for a conditional use permit as a “community center.”

        We bought our house at 349 North California Avenue in the spring of 1983. The First Baptist Church
next door was a thriving church then and went about its business without unduly disturbing its neighbors. In
addition to church services there were occasional weddings and other activities, mostly church related or
charitable in nature. The congregants coming and going were, for the most part, familiar to the residents
nearby.

       About a decade ago, things began to change, gradually at first, and in ways that it took us a few years to
understand. We now know that this was around the time a new pastor, Randle Mixon, arrived on the scene. We
also now know that the original healthy congregation of around eight hundred has, over the intervening years,
and by Mr. Mixon’s own estimate, lost nearly ninety percent of its membership. This loss, again according to
Mr. Mixon, left the church unable to meet its financial obligations.

        In recent years the church has addressed its fiscal problems by accumulating secular tenants, renting the
church buildings out on several days, and especially evenings, each week, for events often lasting until 11:00
PM. The main activities hall lies less than fifty feet from our home so my wife and I have had ample
opportunity to observe the range of tenants involved. These tenants have included a restaurant, a school for
ballroom dancing, a folk dancing group, a rock group, a venue for political rallying, a children’s music school
and a girls’ choral group—all secular uses having nothing to do with the church as a religious institution. This
growth of the property as a commercial business occurred without any municipal permits and, therefore,
without regulation. The city government’s recent objection to this practice has resulted in the current
application for a conditional use permit to restore the church’s full range of rental options.

         It’s hard to find words to describe the magnitude of the intrusion into our home and lives brought about
by the unrestrained uses of the church in recent years. Times of illness, times of pleasure, times of friendship
and the ordinary peaceful times of domestic life—all have been repeatedly interrupted by the persistent clamor
of the tenants renting the church’s facility next door. With it’s windows and doors wide open, its amplified
sound and its total disregard for the community around it, the church makes a very great difference in the
quality of life possible in this neighborhood. These effects are not a secret. They are widely known and, if one
of us were to place our home on the market for sale, these unusual conditions would have to be disclosed to
prospective buyers as a relevant nuisance. Left unregulated, in other words, activities at the church would
materially compromise the property values of the homes that surround it.

        I hope the council members will understand that our complaint implies no judgment of the value of the
various organizations that rent the church facilities. We object to their placement in an area that, in terms of
                                                           1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:27 AM
traffic, parking and noise, is inadequate to accommodate them. In his application for a permit, Mr. Mixon asks
to be allowed to continue these activities every day and night for as many as five hundred people. He makes
this application “under protest” because he seems to believe that a church should not be subject to normal
municipal regulations under the city’s zoning ordinances. Please consider carefully the logic of this
position. Mr. Mixon is saying, in effect, that the further the church declines as a religious institution the more it
is entitled to privileges that are unique to religious institutions and would be denied to any secular property in
the community.

         I am familiar with the argument that the role of churches has changed over time, that churches need to
become more integrated into the values and activities of the community at large and that this integration
necessarily involves activities on their premises that are not specifically religious. The mistake would be to
identify the First Baptist Church as representative of Palo Alto churches in general. It is not true that most of
our churches have declined in their membership as the First Baptist Church has during Mr. Mixon’s
stewardship. Indeed some have enjoyed robust gains in the sizes of their congregations during the same
period. It is also not true that Palo Alto churches all occupy spaces as physically constrained as this church
does. Many have large parking facilities and buildings well separated from surrounding homes

        Finally we need to ask what this debate is actually about. It is not about the church’s tenants. As the
New Mozart School has amply demonstrated, it is always possible to find alternative, and more appropriate,
venues for our community’s worthy activities. And it is not about the needs of a robust congregation of
worshippers. Mr. Mixon and his supporters wish to use the church property as a commercial business for their
own purposes. My argument is that they should not be allowed to do so to the detriment of the surrounding
neighborhood.

          I respectfully request that you deny the First Baptist Church’s application to become a community
center.

Thank you for your attention,

Loy D. Martin

349 North California Avenue

Palo Alto, CA 94301




                                                          2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:46 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Bonnie Flanagan <bonnie.m.flanagan@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Thursday, February 01, 2018 2:20 PM
To:                              Council, City
Cc:                              Keene, James; Gitelman, Hillary; Owen, Graham; Lait, Jonathan;
                                 James.Stephens@cityofpalo.org
Subject:                         First Baptist Church’s CUP request



Members of the City Council:


I’m writing about the Baptist Church’s CUP request to operate as a Community Center.


Our family has lived across from the church since the mid 1960s. The church had a robust parish for many years
& there were large Sunday services, Easter, Christmas, weddings & funerals. There were also social/community
services like Alcoholic Anonymous, election polling, etc. The parking & traffic situation was manageable & not
reflective of what has occurred with recent organizations operating out of the church — the largest being iSing
& the Mozart Music School.

The traffic that these businesses have brought to the neighborhood is significant. Most of this occurs when
children are returning home from Jordan, Paly & other nearby schools. U-turns in the middle of the street while
dropping off & picking up children is a regular occurrence. Classes & events have parents parking cars on
nearby streets - South Court, Waverley, California Ave, Bryant & Washington. Other Palo Alto religious
organizations have on-site parking; whereas, the Baptist Church has only eight on-site parking spaces: one for
the Pastor, one for Joellen Werne, MD, one handicapped spot & one-two used by the daycare as their three
designated spaces are for childcare drop off. That leaves three spots for other church-related staff. All other staff
& participants must park on nearby streets.


With Bryant Street designated as the bicycle path this will exacerbate the traffic & parking issues. Unless there
have been changes to this area’s bike plan, we’ve been told between 10-15 street parking spaces will be
removed.


This is not safe for bicyclist, pedestrians & cars utilizing both Bryant & California Avenues. It presents a very
dangerous situation.


I’m very concerned for the safety of our children riding bikes in this area & request that the CUP for a
Community Center be denied as it significantly increases traffic & impacts the safety of our children.


Thank you.

Attached below:

                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:46 AM
The June 14, 2017 Planning & Transportation Commission Staff Report that includes many letters describing
safety issues & the impact on the neighborhood:
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/58205


Sent from my iPhone




                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/7/2018 1:28 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Pat Marriott <patmarriott@sbcglobal.net>
Sent:                              Wednesday, February 07, 2018 11:20 AM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           Funding the zoo


Council Members,
I find it difficult to rationalize your decision to add $7M to fund the Jr. Museum & Zoo, yet there’s no funding allocation
for the disintegrating animal shelter, where hundreds – if not thousands – of needy animals go for care and adoption
every year.
           Pat Marriott




                                                             1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/5/2018 8:31 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Sent:                            Saturday, February 03, 2018 2:25 PM
To:                              Mayor; esmeralda.soria@fresno.gov; terry; thomas.esqueda@fresno.gov; Tom Lang;
                                 Council, City; Steve Wayte; steve.hogg; Kirk Sorensen; Steven Feinstein; Joel Stiner;
                                 Mark Standriff; robert.andersen; Greg.Gatzka; huidentalsanmateo; info@superide1.com;
                                 jerry ruopoli; kclark; leager; midge@thebarretts.com; Mark Kreutzer; mmt4@pge.com;
                                 nick yovino; russ@topperjewelers.com; richard.wenzel
Subject:                         Fwd: Big article, 2015, Europe, health effects of smoke




On Sat, Feb 3, 2018 at 1:56 PM, Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org> wrote:


 On Sat, Feb 3, 2018 at 12:37 PM, Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org> wrote:

     Sat. 2-3-18

     Dennis, David, Doug, City of Fresno, Francis Collins at NIH, Dr. Irv Weissman at Stanford, et. al.

     Here is a hair-raising article re the health effects of breathing smoke. "Not many studies have been done
  on the health effects of breathing forest fire smoke" the article containing this link says, but this is still
  interesting:


     http://erj.ersjournals.com/content/46/6/1577



     I guess this is from 2015. The journal editors were too stupid to put a clear date on it.

    I will be urging Stanford, the State of California and the federal government to conduct those studies. It
  looks to me as though politics has played a role in the dearth of studies. We don't want our customers and our
  employees fleeing out of the Central Valley of California for fear they will develop serious illnesses from
  breathing forest fire smoke, so "Mum's the word". Bet they have heard about our plight at Amazon.

       The Republican-owned TV stations in the Central Valley, broadcasting in the public interest, say in their
 weather reports that the air quality is just horrible when these fires are raging, and often very bad when they
 are not. But any talk about the real health impact? No, we don't get into that. One weather man here always
 says, joyfully, "IT"S OK to burn in Fresno, Kings and Tulare Cos. over the next 24 hours!". He loves the
 idea of people burning stuff. Just loves it. What a menace he and the station owners are to the people of this
 valley. He's been doing this for years and I have complained to the station about him. He seems to have toned
 this down slightly in recent years. When the pollution is too thick, they (San Joaquin Valley Air Pollution
 Control District) forbid burning except in "registered devices". I can go down to the mailbox on "no burn"
 nights and the wood smoke is just choking. No attempt is made to determine who is doing it. You can walk
 upwind of various houses and tell who is doing it.
                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/5/2018 8:31 AM

    I recommend that all recipients read it. I'm about to. Remember all of this, and read it again, when
 thousands of acres of dead and living trees, and a lot more, in the Sierra go up in smoke this spring, summer
 and fall if you live in the Central Valley.

    Then consider again the City of Fresno's 2035 plan to add 250,000 more people inside the city limits of
 Fresno by that year, all of whom will be exacerbating climate change. Fresno, and maybe some of its officials,
 will be sued and maybe prosecuted into abandoning that plan long before 2035, I predict.

      Some have suggested that we could cut and haul the 110 million dead trees, as of today, out of the Sierra
and convert them to ethanol. I'm guessing, but I think it would take decades to haul that many trees out of the
Sierra. Check with the logging operations people in Oregon and Washington, I guess. If we can get substantial
numbers out and convert them to ethanol, that would help, and I strongly support that plan. The ethanol would
be nice, but the real point of that exercise would be to mitigate what I think is a mounting human catastrophe in
the Central Valley of California from humans breathing forest fire smoke. And more trees die every drought-
stricken year, as 2018 seems to be developing into. I say cut many of them down, bury them in place, and
cover them with 2 feet of dirt. Or just stack them up, and cover them with dirt and fire retardant. Maybe spray
them with fire retardant before they catch fire. Maybe we should see the big tankers over the Sierra before fire
season starts, at least over vast swathes of orange, dead trees. The lawyers from the Sierra Club will rage in
court over the cosmetic impact on the Sierra of doing all of that, but wait till you see cells from your lungs,
heart, brain, eyes, kidneys, pancreas and stomach under the microscope after a few more summers of breathing
heavy forest fire smoke. Remember, if you can smell it, you're breathing it. If it gets into your lungs, it goes
into your bloodstream (that's how it works) and from there to your heart, brain, eyes, kidneys, etc.

      I'll note that big forest fires occur every summer now in Oregon, Washington, Montana, Wyoming,
Colorado, New Mexico, in Canada, Australia, Spain and Portugal, and elsewhere, but the smoke from those is
not always trapped in a bowl-shaped valley like the Central Valley of California, where the residents are
trapped and have to breath it.

     One finds this: We cannot prove yet that climate change is causing droughts (which kills trees), but we
do know that the higher temperatures from climate change dry out the trees and ground cover and that makes it
all more vulnerable to fire.

    L. William Harding
    Fresno, Ca.




                                                       2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:33 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Santa Clara County Public Health Department
                               <phcdip=phd.sccgov.org@mail27.us4.mcsv.net> on behalf of Santa Clara County
                               Public Health Department <phcdip@phd.sccgov.org>
Sent:                          Thursday, February 01, 2018 11:04 AM
To:                            Council, City
Subject:                       Healthy Cities - February 2018 Newsletter




             HEALTHY CITIES
                                  FEBRUARY 2018 NEWSLETTER

             2017 HEALTHY CITIES AWARD WINNERS | 2017 DASHBOARDS | TOBACCO ENFORCEMENT |
           FEBRUARY 9 SUGARY DRINK POLICY WORKSHOP | TOBACCO POLICY FUNDING | SAFE ROUTES
              TO SCHOOL LAUNCH PROGRAM | OLDER ADULT TRANSPORTATION & TRAFFIC SAFETY
                                                REPORT




           2017 Award Winners
           During 2017, a number of cities and towns made significant strides to adopt policies and
           programs to promote public health and reduce chronic disease and injury risk. Five distinct
           cities and towns within Santa Clara County earned a total of eight awards in 2017.
           Congratulations to each of the 2017 award winners!




                                                Palo Alto
                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:33 AM


                                                    Best Overall, 2017
                           Exemplary City for Reduced Exposure to Secondhand Smoke




           Palo Alto Mayor (2017) Greg Scharff accepted two awards from Public Health Officer and Director Dr.
           Sara Cody.




                                                    Los Gatos



                                                              2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:33 AM


                                       Best in Tobacco-Free Communities, 2017
                                        Exemplary City for Safe Routes to School
                        Exemplary City for Inclusive & Comprehensive Planning & Programs




           Supervisor Wasserman and Public Health staff presented three awards to Mayor Rennie and other
           employees and residents of the Town of Los Gatos.




                                                     Cupertino
                                        Exemplary City for Safe Routes to School




           Public Health Officer and Director Dr. Cody presented the Cupertino City Council with an award for its
           work promoting Safe Routes to School.




                                                    Morgan Hill
                                             Exemplary City for Water Access




                                                               3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:33 AM




           Supervisor Wasserman recognized Mayor Tate, Christina Turner, and Chris Ghione for their efforts to
           promote drinking water access in Morgan Hill.




                                               Mountain View
                       Exemplary City for Inclusive & Comprehensive Planning & Programs




           Mountain View Mayor (2017) Ken Rosenberg and City Manager Dan Rich accepted an award recognizing
           the City's exemplary work promoting the health of residents and employees of all ages.



                                                              4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:33 AM




           2017 Healthy Cities Dashboards
           The 2017 Dashboards for every
           jurisdiction in Santa Clara County are
           available for download in a printable
           format. To access the 2017 Healthy Cities
           Dashboard specific to your City or Town,
           or to view a grid with a side-by-side
           comparison of what each city has
           achieved, please visit bit.ly/scc-hc-dbf.




           Cities Stepped Up Tobacco
           Enforcement in 2017




                                                       5
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:33 AM




           Ten jurisdictions within Santa Clara County conducted enforcement operations in 2017 to
           verify retailer compliance with state laws prohibiting the sale of tobacco and tobacco
           products to people under 21 years of age. In total, 134 retail establishments across the
           County were checked in 2017, a significant increase from 2016, when only three
           jurisdictions conducted enforcement with 45 retailers. Jurisdictions that conducted
           enforcement checks in 2017 include the Town of Los Gatos, the Cities of Campbell,
           Cupertino, Los Altos, Morgan Hill, Mountain View, Santa Clara, Saratoga, and Sunnyvale,
           and the County of Santa Clara.




                                                         6
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:33 AM



                                                              Sugary Drink
                                                              Policy
                                                              Workshop
                                                              Local city elected officials, city managers,
                                                              and their staff are invited to attend a
                                                              workshop to learn about the best policies
                                                              to reduce access to sugary drinks -- and
                                                              promote the health of residents -- at a
                                                              policy workshop on Friday, February 9,
                                                              from 12:30 to 2PM. The workshop is
                                                              being coordinated in partnership with the
                                                              Santa Clara County Cities Association and
                                                              will feature Dr. Jim Krieger of Healthy
                                                              Food America. Attendance by invitation
                                                              only. For more details, visit bit.ly/sdpwork.




           Tobacco Policy Funding for Cities
           As a result of the passage of Proposition 56 in 2016, the State of California is collecting
           more taxes from tobacco sales. The Santa Clara County Public Health Department has
           funding available to distribute to our cities and towns in the interest of strengthening
           tobacco control policies and reducing tobacco use. For more information, please contact
           Nicole Coxe at Nicole.Coxe@phd.sccgov.org.




           Apply for the 2018 Safe Routes to
           School Launch Program
           The Safe Routes to School National Partnership just announced the next round of the Safe
           Routes to School Launch Program for 2018. Building off of a successful 2017 pilot year,
           they are looking for five new California communities eager to start or grow a strong and


                                                          7
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:33 AM


           sustainable Safe Routes to School program. See their blog for more information.


           Interested in applying for the Safe Routes to School Launch Program for your community?
           Complete their interest form online, or complete a pdf version and email it to Andrew
           Pasillas at andrew@saferoutespartnership.org. Intake forms will be accepted on ongoing
           basis until Wednesday February 28, 2018.




           Older Adult Transportation &
           Traffic Safety Report
           A new report, Older Adult Transportation
           and Traffic Safety in Santa Clara County,
           was released by the Public Health
           Department in collaboration with local
           senior, transportation and traffic safety
           organizations. The report provides data
           and recommendations related to older
           adult driving, walking, transit use, mobility
           options, and bicycling. Recommendations
           support jurisdictions’ Complete Streets,
           Age-Friendly, and Vision Zero efforts. To
           obtain a printable copy, contact Sue
           Lowery at susan.lowery@phd.sccgov.org.




           Healthy Cities Contacts
           Over the coming months, we will be revising the criteria and policies on the Healthy Cities
           Dashboard. If you have feedback on the criteria or policies on the Dashboard, or if you
           would like technical assistance on specific policies, we can help.




                                                           8
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:33 AM


                                        Active & Safe Communities
                                      Alice.Kawaguchi@phd.sccgov.org


                                  Healthy Food & Beverage Environments
                                        Laura.Jones@phd.sccgov.org


                                        Tobacco-Free Communities
                                        Nicole.Coxe@phd.sccgov.org


                                         Cross-Cutting Strategies
                                      Edward.Daligga@phd.sccgov.org




                     For more information about Healthy Cities visit bit.ly/scc-hcp.




                                                     9
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:33 AM

                                       This email was sent to city.council@cityofpaloalto.org
                         why did I get this?   unsubscribe from this list   update subscription preferences
            Santa Clara County Public Health Department · 1400 Parkmoor Ave · Ste 120 B · San Jose, Ca 95126 · USA




                                                                  10
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/7/2018 1:28 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                                 Suepprgm <sueppr@gmail.com>
Sent:                                 Tuesday, February 06, 2018 8:14 PM
To:                                   Council, City
Subject:                              Help Palo alto become at CEDAW city



I strongly urge you to pass anti gender discrimination laws for my city of Palo Alto!
Becoming a CEDAW City, in concrete terms, would commit resources to understanding local gender equity
issues by conducting an analysis of city operations including workforce, programs, and budget, establishing an
oversight body to monitor gender equity, and providing ongoing funding to support implementation of CEDAW
principles.

I would also ask that the committee review arbitration rules that may prevent victims of discrimination from
coming forward.

Thank you
Sue Purdy ☮ Pelosi
LinkedIn
Be kind whenever possible. It is always possible.
Dalai Lama




                                                             1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:26 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Tonya Nelson <Tonya.Nelson@palmspringsca.gov>
Sent:                             Wednesday, January 31, 2018 4:45 PM
Subject:                          Inquiry - City Council Policies

Importance:                       High


Good Afternoon,

My name is Tonya Nelson and I am reaching out to you from the Palm Springs, City Attorney’s office. I am looking to
obtain some information regarding adopted policies, norms and best practices followed by your City Council members,
as requested by our City Attorney. Please let me know if you need any additional information or clarification from me,
my contact information is listed below.


Thank you for your time and assistance,

              Tonya Nelson, Executive Administrative Assistant
              City of Palm Springs ‐ Office of City Attorney
              3200 E. Tahquitz Canyon Way, Palm Springs, CA 92262
              Office: 760.323.8219 / Fax: 760.322.8332 / Email: Tonya.Nelson@palmspringsca.gov




                                                           1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/3/2018 10:22 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Stepheny McGraw <stepheny@sonic.net>
Sent:                              Saturday, February 03, 2018 9:37 AM
To:                                Council, City
Cc:                                skypossepost@gmail.com
Subject:                           Jet Noise Overhead


Although I cannot be at today’s meeting, please know that I remain very much disturbed by the high volume of noisy jets
directly overhead. I support Sky Posse in their efforts to remedy this situation which strongly affects our quality of life —
and possibly our health from a higher than normal concentration of jet exhaust — on a daily, 24/7 basis.

Thank you for continuing to work to reroute these planes.
Stepheny McGraw
3303 Thomas Drive
Palo Alto, CA 94303




                                                              1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:46 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                         michael nierenberg <nierenberg@yahoo.com>
Sent:                         Thursday, February 01, 2018 2:08 PM
To:                           Council, City
Cc:                           Historic Resources Board
Subject:                      Lack of community representation and input re: Eichler Design Guidelines Project



Dear City Council Members:

My wife and I have lived in our Eichler for over 40 years and have remodeled it several times. We
even added a second story, all with approval, appropriate design considerations, and maintenance of
our neighbors’ privacy. Thus, the Eichler Design Guidelines put forth by Page and Turnbull (under
contract from the city) will not directly impact us.

These guidelines (all the way down to color choice and type of door knobs) are supposedly
“voluntary” but do have a process for going beyond voluntary to become mandates if The City Council
chooses to do so.

 What concerns me is that this project to date does not reflect the input of the larger Eichler
community. Note the following:

>There are about 2700 Eichlers in Palo Alto, which must mean there are at least 4000 adult residents
living in them.

>Page and Turnbull interviewed only 150 residents while drafting their proposal.

>There have been 2 public workshops (one of which my wife and I attended) but only 90 people total
attended them.

>Only 1 community person was at the last HRB regarding the proposal.

>Only 27 people sent email comments to Page and Turnbull (I read all 233 comments, many
obviously from the same person).

>Many of my neighbors have never heard of the project and I spoke to a well known realtor who sells
Eichlers and he had not heard anything about the guidelines project.

My present concern is not whether Eichlers should or should not be regulated structurally, but rather
that there is inadequate community awareness, which could lead to legislation without
representation. Page and Turnbull maintain that there has been adequate attempt to get input. That
simply is not true. There are ways of getting the larger public more informed and I would urge that
attempts be made to get better input before the Council considers these guidelines. The guidelines
are put forth as voluntary by Page and Turnbull, but note that there is a proposed 3-tiered acceptance
process, the last of which is having the Council vote to make these requirements mandatory. Before
you consider whether or not to do so I hope that you would insist on more input from a broader base.

Thank you so much for your time and kind attention.
                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:46 AM

Respectfully,
Michael A. Nierenberg, M.D.

_____________________________________________________This e-mail message and any
attachment(s) transmitted with it are intended only for the use of the recipient(s) named above. This
message may be privileged and/or confidential. If you are not an intended recipient, you may not
review, copy or distribute this message. If you have received this communication in error, please
notify us immediately by e-mail and delete the original message.Thank you...


         Virus-free. www.avg.com




                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/7/2018 1:24 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                               jeannie llewellyn <jeannie.llewellyn@gmail.com>
Sent:                               Monday, February 05, 2018 8:38 PM
To:                                 Council, City
Subject:                            Lunacy around Ross, Louis, East Meadow roads



I've been off-handedly reading the comments about the traffic median / circle on Ross Rd, near Louis Rd, and
watching the intersection at Ross and E Meadow constrict.

I DO have to ask - what was the plan for the hordes of teen bicyclists at those intersections? They already blow
through stop signs, but now they get to do it in front of a car!

What are the qualifications of the person or team that designed this new street scene?


Jeannie Llewellyn
                      “They don’t want quarter-inch bits. They want quarter-inch holes.” –Leo McGinneva

No piece of paper can be folded in half more than seven (7) times.
Oh go ahead .. I'll wait...




                                                               1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/3/2018 2:17 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                               David <uduh@aol.com>
Sent:                               Saturday, February 03, 2018 1:37 PM
To:                                 Council, City
Subject:                            Mayfield Soccer Complex


Hi ‐ the lights at the Mayfield Soccer Complex on Page Mill Road are very insufficiently lit at night. It looks as about 75%
of the lights aren’t even functioning. Please put in new lights that haven’t burnt out. It’s not very safe for youth or adults
to play with these conditions. Thanks and waiting to hear from you.

David L. (Palo alto resident and soccer player/coach)




                                                              1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:34 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Meghan Mary Fate Sullivan <meghans8@stanford.edu>
Sent:                          Thursday, February 01, 2018 1:01 PM
To:                            Council, City
Subject:                       Message from the City Council Home Page



Hello,

My name is Meghan Sullivan. I am a Stanford student writing a story for my journalism class about the
upcoming Caltrain grade separation. I attended the City Council meeting 2 weeks ago where residents from
Churchill Avenue spoke out against the underpass option, which would cause relocation in their neighborhood.
I was wondering if the City Council had an official stance on grade separation or a specific timeline for the
project. I can be reached at meghans8@stanford.edu or 907-240-0026. Thank you!

Best,

Meghan




                                                      1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:46 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                 Wendy Harrington <wharringtons@gmail.com>
Sent:                                 Thursday, February 01, 2018 6:04 PM
To:                                   Council, City
Subject:                              Palo Alto Fire Dept



This is very disconcerting. I hope the city council will find a better way to allocate funds to ensure our
community has the critical services we need for emergencies.

Wendy

Wendy Harrington
1150 Byron St
Palo Alto, CA 94301

---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: shira.mowlem@gmail.com [addison_neighborhood_community]
<addison_neighborhood_community-noreply@yahoogroups.com>
Date: Thu, Feb 1, 2018 at 12:53 PM
Subject: [addison_neighborhood_community] Please Help Raise Concern with Palo Alto City Council on
Reduction of Fire Department Staffing
To: addison_neighborhood_community@yahoogroups.com




Hello neighbors, Effective January 2018, PAFD had a reduction in 11 FTE positions
(https://www.mercurynews.com/2017/10/19/palo-alto-cuts-11-firefighter-jobs-after-stanford-reduces-contract/). This article outlines
the reduction in staffing to address budget deficits by using a new, statistics-based cross-staffing model that attempts to increase
efficiency and maintain service levels. However, this model does not cover the unexpected nor spikes in call volume. We have
already seen the negative impact of these changes. In January, (1) we had several occasions when simultaneous 9-1-1 calls resulted in
the PAFD reaching level zero (there were no units available to respond to emergencies!); (2) there were increased response times; and
(3) Menlo Park and Mountain View dropped mutual aid because we cannot reciprocate at this capacity.




As a mother of young children and with retired resident parents and a caring member of this community, we need the services of a
fully-staffed Fire Department with first-responders. The budget deficit should be addressed elsewhere to maintain our vital services
and ensure the safety and well-being of those in Palo Alto.




If you share similar concerns, please let your concerns be heard with our City Council before they meet on Saturday, 2/3 to devise
priorities for 2018. You can post a statement on Open City Hall on the following link: City of Palo Alto, CA - News Details or you
can write directly to the City Council at city.council@cityofpaloalto.org.




Thank you,


                                                                  1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:46 AM
Shira on Lincoln




__._,_.___

Posted by: shira.mowlem@gmail.com


    Reply via web post                                                                                                                                      •   Reply to sender   •   Reply to group   •   Start a New Topic   •   Messages in this topic (1)



       Right-click here to download pictures. To help p ro tect y our priv acy , Outlook prev ented automatic download of this picture from the Internet.




Have you tried the highest rated email app?
With 4.5 stars in iTunes, the Yahoo Mail app is the highest rated email app on the market. What are you waiting
for? Now you can access all your inboxes (Gmail, Outlook, AOL and more) in one place. Never delete an email
again with 1000GB of free cloud storage.

VISIT YOUR GROUP

       Right-click here to download pictures. To help p ro tect y our priv acy , Outlook prev ented automatic download of this picture from the Internet.
       Yahoo! Groups




• Privacy • Unsubscribe • Terms of Use
.




__,_._,___




                                                                                                                                                                                                             2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:51 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                 ron ito <wsrfr418@yahoo.com>
Sent:                                 Thursday, February 01, 2018 9:49 PM
To:                                   Council, City
Subject:                              pension costs....


California cities say pension costs are high — and will get even higher in the next few years




           California cities say pension costs are high —
           and will get even higher ...
           Citing limited options for raising local taxes, the
           association representing hundreds of California cities
           warne...




                                                                    1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:53 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Rita Vrhel <ritavrhel@sbcglobal.net>
Sent:                         Friday, February 02, 2018 9:10 AM
To:                           David.Rader@pln.sccgov.org
Cc:                           Council, City
Subject:                      Please see letter re Stanford's 2108 GUP
Attachments:                  2-2-18 letter re Stanford GUP.pdf



Good Morning: Please see my letter regarding Stanford's 2018 GUP. Thank you

Rita C. Vrhel, RN, BSN, CCM
Medical Case Management
Phone: 650-325-2298
Fax: 650-326-9451




                                                       1
February 2, 2018

County of Santa Clara
Department of Planning and Development
Attention: David Rader
County Government Center
70 West Hedding Street, San Jose, CA 95110
Phone: (408) 299-5779
Email: David.Rader@pln.sccgov.org

Re: Stanford 2018 General Use Permit Application and Draft EIR
Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors has a Solomon-like task in deciding how to balance the
needs of the communities surrounding Stanford University and the needs of the University itself
as stated in the GUP and Draft EIR.
From attending many meetings on this subject, several points of the GUP and draft EIR require
highlighting:

   •   Stanford, in all its endeavors, is greatly appreciated and admired. I'm not aware of a
       single person who has spoken ill of its contributions to the region or the excellence of its
       services.

   •   This is the single largest project ever proposed in Santa Clara County. It is critical to the
       County that the Board of Supervisors not be overwhelmed in scrutinizing it or accept any
       information provided by Stanford without extremely careful analysis, such as the
       submitted low job creation multiplier and the equally conservative student generation
       rate. Also, it would not be at all inappropriate to set measurable milestones for each part
       of the GUP buildout, measure results on key indicators, such as traffic, housing, school
       age student increases, etc., and make adjustments as needed to keep the GUP within the
       Board's approved parameters.

   •   The GUP presents only part of Stanford's ongoing expansion plans, namely less than
       50% of the 5.7 million square feet of new non-residential square footage presented in
       four segmented Stanford developments across multiple perrnittingjurisdictions. As such,
       We respectfully request the Board look at all of Stanford's expansion plans, no matter
       under whose jurisdiction, including the requirement for a Stanford maximum build out
       plan, as well as other non-Stanford development plans announced from July 2017 -
       February 2018 to gain a more comprehensive understanding of the pressures -
       transportation, housing, school age student increases, water, etc. - confronting this area.

   •   While the GUP talks of the projected increase of 9600 employees or students, it is
       unrealistic to assume that a certain number of these employees or students will not be
    accompanied by some number of family members. Given the demographics of the new
    employees and graduate students, there is an appropriate multiplier to use in arriving an a
    more accurate projected population increase. In addition, the County also needs to add
    the extra jobs from the job multiplier number as well as their likely family members.
    Only then can the County begin to assess the total impact of the GUP population
    increase.

•   Traffic and congestion will increase without significant changes to the proposed GUP and
    traffic mitigation plans as discussed by Stanford. Each begs the credibility of those who
    presented and/or believe the stated traffic impacts and continued reliance on the current
    traffic demand management system. Caltrain cannot reasonably be expected to mitigate
    Stanford's increased commuter traffic.

•   The GUP housing plans do not address the housing shortage, or workforce housing, from
    the influx of 9600 employees or students, employees from the job multiplier number, plus
    family members. It should be required to do so.

•   Stanford's offset contributions to the Affordable Housing Fund go to Santa Clara County
    for distribution, further acerbating the affordable housing crisis in municipalities
    bordering Stanford. I 00% of these funds should go to these adjacent communities.

•   Impacts from school aged children are understated in the GUP with the likely outcome of
    further burdening neighbor municipalities, which will have to shoulder these education
    costs. Stanford should be required to provide adequate additional on campus school
    facilities to educate the anticipated number of such students based on the more realistic
    student generation rate of 0.98 and have such facilities in plac~ prior to their being
    needed.

•   Stanford should be required to fund mitigation strategies to offset the impacts of the
    GUP, including but not limited to housing, education, traffic, infrastructure and separated
    grade crossings. Such mitigation funding should be reviewed with additional funding
    assessed, as needed, as the GUP is built out and mitigations required. This avoids the
    issue of insufficient mitigation funding being available when the mitigation is
    implemented as such costs usually increase over time.

•   Stanford as a non-profit is tax exempt. Given the cost burdens placed on the County and
    nearby municipalities as a result of this and previous GUPs, we encourage the Board to
    facilitate a conversation with Stanford and neighboring municipalities to explore and
    negotiate a Payment In Lieu of Taxes (PILOT) to be paid annually to such municipalities.
    PILOTs have been successfully negotiated with other major universities, including
    Harvard, and would recognize Stanford's financial impact on local taxpayers.
Lastly, as you do your due diligence on the Stanford 2018 General Use Permit Application and
Draft EIR, no matter where you live in Santa Clara County, please view yourself as a resident
and taxpayer who lives in Palo Alto, Los Altos, or any of the other neighboring communities,
including those in San Mateo County, particularly East Palo Alto and Menlo Park. Do not think
of yourself as living in San Jose or Santa Clara. Only by putting yourself in our shoes can you
hope to understand our concerns.
Thank you for receiving our comments.


Sincerely,

/lf;:Ytz-/vJ-                                             1-m    I /r,~77L
Rita C. Vrhel                                          ,fR~~e C. Wood
1125 Channing Avenue                                       928 Boardman Street
Palo Alto, CA 94301                                        Sheffield, MA 01257


cc: Joe Simitian; President, Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors
    Palo Alto City Council
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/3/2018 2:21 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Jeffrey Lipkin <repjal@att.net>
Sent:                            Saturday, February 03, 2018 2:17 PM
To:                              Lydia Kou
Cc:                              Council, City
Subject:                         Re: 2018 City Council Retreat



Thanks for your letter to constituents.

In brief,

1. I want to see immediate action on speed humps along Georgia Avenue on both sides of the cut-through to
Gunn. This is disgraceful no matter what one’s political predilections.

2. I support more housing along El Camino - between Stanford and Mountain View. Most of the property is
way underutilized, and some is wasteland. I would give preference to seniors, police, teachers, civil servants,
and firemen. Mountain View has done a much better job in this regard.

3. I think that most citizens are smoking a dangerous form of opium when they support the billion dollar
alternatives for grade separations at the tracks.

4. I would eliminate the city airport and golf course, which are wasteful luxuries at city expense, including the
lost opportunity to contribute the land to housing (as above) and transportation (to link the development by
transportation to California Avenue).

Sincerely yours,

Jeff Lipkin


        On Feb 3, 2018, at 1:10 AM, Lydia Kou <lydiakou@lydiakou.emailnb.com> wrote:




                   Letters from Lydia




                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/3/2018 2:21 PM




                Jeffrey --

                I want to wish you Happy New Year, and at the same time, I apologize for the late wishes.
                The holidays turned out to be a forced rest for us – our family had a family cold. We’re all
                recovered and rested. I hope you are all well.

                Please put this date on your calendar and help inform City Council what you would consider
                a priority or priorities for 2018.

                City of Palo Alto City Council Retreat

                Saturday, February 3, 2019

                9:00 am – 3:00 pm

                El Palo Alto Room, Mitchell Park Community Center, 3700 Middlefield Road, Palo
                Alto

                Agenda https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/63222

                This year, there is much to be aware of and for you to determine whether this is YOUR
                vision for YOUR city…a place that you decided to call home for your family, a place that

                                                       2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/3/2018 2:21 PM
                you could feel safe in all aspects, a place that you thought you could find peace and quiet
                enjoyment.

                There is an aggressive plan/priority to build housing by deregulating and providing flexibility
                by changing zoning and relaxing the City’s building codes. Much of the negative cumulative
                impacts are deflected by the rationale that it is a regional matter. Here is a link to the draft
                Housing Work Plan https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/63027. Page
                27 will show all the deregulation. How will this impact your neighborhood and quality of
                life? The City is big on talking about “sustainability”, is this kind of growth sustainable?
                How will the City address parking? How will the City address the cut through traffic into our
                neighborhoods? How will the City fund all City services and infrastructure needs? The
                growth plan below is for the years 2018 – 2035.

                Many of you already know of Stanford University’s aggressive growth plan, today is the last
                day to provide your comments on the draft Environmental Impact Report (DEIR). Stanford is
                proposing the following:

                      2,275,000 net new square feet of academic and academic support facilities;
                      3,150 net new housing units/beds which amounts to approximately 4 million
                       square feet
                      40,000 square feet of childcare and childcare related facilities; and
                      Stanford University proposes that the 2018 General Use Permit include an option to

                allow Stanford to construct a 2,000-space parking supply reserve, subject to Planning
                Commission review and approval, if any one of the following conditions apply: 1) Stanford
                is achieving its No Net New Commute Trip goal; 2) such parking would not result in a
                substantial increase in peak-hour commute trips; or 3) unforeseen circumstances occur due to
                changes in background conditions would require provision of additional parking.

                If you haven’t already done so, it is due today by 5:00pm. Send your comments
                to David.Rader@pln.sccgov.org

                The City of Palo Alto has also passed its Comprehensive Plan which will increase traffic
                congestion and decrease air quality which are identified as “significant unavoidable”
                impacts. This is what has been adopted in spite of the “significant unavoidable impacts:

                      Three million square feet of new employment workspace (1.3 million square feet
                       is the new Stanford University Medical Center which is not opened yet and we don’t
                       know what traffic impacts it will bring yet)
                      10,240 to 11,890 new employees
                      11,240 to 13,260 new population
                      4,710 to 5,580 new housing units (no square footage has been provided)

                The City’s finances are supposedly in good shape, yet there is going to be dips in the coming
                years starting next fiscal year. The General Fund, your tax dollars is funding the growth
                mitigation. You have to ask why are we mitigating so much and at the same time, having to
                physically change our lifestyle in order to accommodate all the negative cumulative impacts.

                A friend said they were looking to move to Nevada and their friends in Nevada said that
                there are many from California moving to Nevada, but the Nevada residents do not want to
                                                       3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/3/2018 2:21 PM
                openly welcome Californians because 1) the real estate prices will escalate, and 2)
                Californians who have identified the area to be suburban, quiet and peaceful, no traffic
                congestions and parking issues will then try to change the area to become urban and
                metropolitan. This is what happened in Colorado and Washington State.

                Is this what you want for Palo Alto? Is this why you moved to Palo Alto?
                Lydia Kou

                http://www.lydiakou.com/

                Vote for Lydia Kou · 708 Matadero Ave, Palo Alto, CA 94306, United States
                This email was sent to repjal@att.net. To stop receiving emails, click here.
                You can also keep up with Lydia Kou on Twitter or Facebook.

                                             Created with NationBuilder, software for leaders.




                                                           4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:32 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                 Shira Mowlem <shira.mowlem@gmail.com>
Sent:                                 Thursday, February 01, 2018 11:00 AM
To:                                   Council, City
Cc:                                   Arthur Bobrove; Shay Mowlem
Subject:                              Re: Fire Department Staff Reduction



Dear Council Members,

Thank you for your service. This issue is very important to me as a mother of young children, a daughter of
resident parents, a wife, and a caring member of this community - we need the services of a fully-staffed Fire
Department with first-responders to ensure the safety and well-being of those in Palo Alto. I understand that there are
other potential solutions to the budget deficits and I hope that the City Council can prioritize this issue in the coming
months so that we can find an alternative solution and increase the number of first-responders on shifts. I also
understand that in 1998 there were120 firefighters on staff, and that number has dropped to 80 in 2018. However, the number of
calls have exponentially increased and the number of people and traffic congestion in Palo Alto has also exponentially increased. We
need a fully-staffed Fire Department to get them where they need to be!

Thank you again for taking our concerns into consideration.

Sincerely,
Shira Mowlem

On Wed, Jan 31, 2018 at 9:48 PM, Arthur Bobrove <abobrove@gmail.com> wrote:
 Effective January 2018, PAFD had a reduction in 11 FTE positions (https://www.mercurynews.com/2017/10/19/palo-alto-
 cuts-11-firefighter-jobs-after-stanford-reduces-contract/). This article outlines the reduction in staffing to address budget
 deficits by using a new, statistics-based cross-staffing model that attempts to increase efficiency and maintain service
 levels. However, this model does not cover the unexpected nor spikes in call volume. We have already seen the
 negative impact of these changes. In January, there had been several occasions when simultaneous 9-11 calls resulted
 in the PAFD reaching level zero (there were no units available to respond to emergencies!); (2) there were increased
 response times; and (3) Menlo Park and Mountain View dropped mutual aid because we cannot reciprocate at this
 capacity.

 As the grateful Physician who experienced a dramatic and lifesaving rescue by the Hillview Avenue Fire Station Staff
 following my fall down a steep ravene in FootHills Park in 2014, I am especially aware of the need to have a fully-staffed
 Fire Department with first-responders. It would seem more than prudent, that budget considerations be addressed
 elsewhere to maintain our vital services and ensure the safety and well-being of those that live and work in Palo Alto.



 Thank you,
 Arthur M. Bobrove, MD




                                                                  1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/7/2018 1:26 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Sent:                             Tuesday, February 06, 2018 3:09 PM
To:                               Loran Harding; dennisbalakian; David Balakian; Dan Richard; Daniel Zack; Mark
                                  Kreutzer; huidentalsanmateo; Cathy Lewis; paul.caprioglio; esmeralda.soria@fresno.gov;
                                  Mark Standriff; Mayor; midge@thebarretts.com; mmt4@pge.com;
                                  fmerlo@wildelectric.net; Raymond Rivas; francis.collins@nih.gov; Chris Field; david
                                  pomaville; allison.wisk@latimes.com; beachrides; bearwithme1016@att.net; bballpod;
                                  Council, City; Doug Vagim; diffenbaugh@stanford.edu; Greg.Gatzka; steve.hogg; Irv
                                  Weissman; info@superide1.com; jerry ruopoli; Joel Stiner; jboren; johnhutson580;
                                  kfsndesk; kclark; kevin cervantes; Leodies Buchanan; leager; Tom Lang; nick yovino;
                                  nchase@bayareanewsgroup.com; pavenjitdhillon@yahoo.com;
                                  rosenheim@kpix.cbs.com; russ@topperjewelers.com; robert.andersen; Steve Wayte;
                                  terry; thomas.esqueda@fresno.gov
Subject:                          Re: Little Hoover Com. blasts state on forest fires




On Tue, Feb 6, 2018 at 2:56 PM, Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org> wrote:


 On Tue, Feb 6, 2018 at 2:28 PM, Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org> wrote:


  On Tue, Feb 6, 2018 at 1:53 PM, Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org> wrote:


        Tues. 2-6-18

           To all-

      California's Little Hoover Commission blasts the State of California for how it handles wildfires and the
   prevention thereof:

        This was reported on the noon news today, Tues. 2-6-18 in Fresno. I'm surprised that it was.

        http://www.kcra.com/article/report-blasts-californias-wildfire-suppression-tactics/16628890

       Great to know that the residents of the San Joaquin and Sacramento Valleys are living with a gun to our
   heads. Wonder when the first huge weeks-long forest fire will occur in the Sierra in 2018 to threaten the
   health of us all. I dug out some studies on the health effects of breathing forest fire smoke for somebody and
   sent it out in an email yesterday. I can delete everything in that email except the cites to those reports, and
   distribute it widely, and I shall. Wait till you see just what breathing that smoke can do to you.

      One tiny impact: Cardiac arrests, studied in an Australian report that looked at Melbourne during one of
   their terrible wildfires. MOST cardiac arrest victims die soon after being stricken and never make it to a
   hospital or ER, so just looking at those visits and admissions cannot capture the impact of forest fire smoke

                                                           1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/7/2018 1:26 PM
  on cardiac arrest. Happy thought. So the researchers in Australia looked at ambulance runs transporting
  cardiac arrest victims and that showed the increase in such victims during a bad forest fire.

      I think we should have the big fire-retardant tankers flying up and down the Sierra NOW, in February,
  soaking the 110 million dead trees there before "fire season" starts. One other suggestion: cut the dead trees
  down now, pile them up, soak them with fire retardant, and cover them with dirt. How well would they burn
  in that condition?

      Local news and elected officials in Fresno don't want to bring in experts to discuss the health impact of
  breathing thick forest fire smoke for weeks on end in California's Central Valley. Might scare off rich
  customers, less rich employees, and big outfits like Amazon. I hope we can get a handle on this because I see
  it as a mounting disaster for the people trapped here who have to breath it every summer.

     The literature says that it is not clear that climate change is causing the droughts in California, but it is
  clear that the higher temperatures caused by climate change are drying out the soil, the undergrowth, and the
  trees, and that makes it all more likely to burn. We did not have anything like 110 million dead trees in the
  Sierra in 2010, but after 6 or 7 years of drought, we do have now.

     Response from the City of Fresno? Full speed ahead with their plan to add 250,000 more GHG-emitting
  residents inside the city limits of Fresno by 2035. After all, it is 1948, and we are going to grow. No, it is 70
  years later, a mounting catastrophe is befalling mankind as temperatures and sea levels rise, and Fresno will
  not long get away with their reckless plan for growth.

     The City leaders of Fresno should turn Fresno into a center for the study of how forest fire smoke impacts
  human health and to find ways prevent the fires going forward, its exact structure to be determined. Fund
  that with grants from the Gates Foundation, the Packard Foundation, the Hewlett Foundation, the Ford
  Foundation, the EPA, NIH, the U.S. Forest Service, agencies of the State of California, and grant issuing
  entities at Stanford, etc. perhaps. Involve medical experts from Stanford and other research institutions to
  study the health impacts, and involve biologists in studying how forest fires can be prevented. We will
  certainly have lots of people in the Central Valley whose health is being degraded by breathing forest fire
  smoke.

    We now also see huge forest fires in Oregon, Washington, Idaho, Montana, Wyoming, Colorado, and
  New Mexico every summer, and in Australia, Spain and Portugal. So the Center I propose would benefit far
  more than the victims of this problem in California. Each of those entities could help provide funding if we
  came up with answers.

     L. William Harding
     Fresno, Ca.




                                                         2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/5/2018 8:33 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Tim Cain <tim.cain@att.net>
Sent:                             Sunday, February 04, 2018 11:05 AM
To:                               Council, City
Cc:                               Lait, Jonathan; Owen, Graham
Subject:                          RE: Unsafe Traffic Hazard


Hello again, City Council Members,
Below is the text of the message I sent to James Keene at his email address and also the general city manager address
back in August. I never got any response from him.
Thank you,
Tim Cain


Hello Mr. Keene,

I read your article from the Palo Alto Weekly Friday and found it quite alarming. I really feel like you
and the council have missed the point of what is going on in and around the The Baptist Church on
North California Ave. It really shouldn't matter how adorable the serenading of the council was or
even how much the program benefits those members of the community, it should matter whether or
not they are legally allowed to conduct business there and whether it is a safe environment to house
these programs.

I have lived on South Court ( just a few houses from the Church) for over 25 years. I have always
enjoyed living by the church. Church services, weddings and choirs signing in the church have
always been welcomed. I didn't even mind when they started to rent out space to the dancing
groups in the evenings. However, over the years the number of people renting space appears to be
10 times what it was just a few years ago. For all of its vehicle intensive activities, it has exactly 10
parking spaces. Three spaces are reserved for the nursery school, 1 for the pastor and 1 for the
doctor conducting business at the facility. That leaves just 5 open spaces (which accommodates
fewer cars than my 1927 garage and driveway). I know for a fact that iSing on Wednesdays
and Thursdsays has 150 girls dropped off after school for lessons. Mozart School has said they
have 30 students daily. I am not sure how many people are seeing the doctors there or taking part in
other dancing/singing lessons or picking up toddlers from the preschool but that is way too many
people to share 5 spaces. If you go by on a Wednesday or Thursday during the school year, there are
parents double and triple parked. They park illegally on corners ( blocking visibility of people trying to
make a right or left hand turn onto North California from South Court) and some cars just stop right in
the middle of North California to drop their children off and pick them up. You add the fact that Paly
students are riding their bikes home from school on Bryant and Jordan kids on North California (both
streets are designated bike routes), and it makes for a crazy situation with an accident waiting to
happen. In a typical afternoon, you can spot numerous kids running back and forth across the
street and kids on their bikes weaving in and out between cars. It is a scary sight for any parent
and the fact that I witnessed a child just narrowly missed being hit by a car makes me sick to my
stomach. In the meeting in the council chambers with the planning commission, Pastor Rick Mixon
mentioned that he recognized that the lack of parking and the reckless driving/parking was a problem,
but I don’t believe he has ever done anything to try to address the safety. Is he more concerned
about the church finances than the safety of the children he serves? I find this a bit frightening. More
                                                           1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/5/2018 8:33 AM
concerning is the idea that this facility with 5 parking spaces could be a good space to be turned
into a community center.

I hope that your comments were misquoted and that you will thoroughly investigate the situation. I
believe that the zoning for the church is not the only issue and the safety of our children should take
priority over all. I look forward to hearing back from you on this subject.

Thank you,
Tim Cain
2261 South Court
Palo Alto, Ca 94301
(650) 799-7203


Sent from Mail for Windows 10

From: Tim Cain
Sent: Sunday, February 4, 2018 10:48 AM
To: city.council@cityofpaloalto.org
Cc: jonathan.lait@cityofpaloalto.org; graham.owen@cityofpaloalto.org
Subject: Unsafe Traffic Hazard

Hello City Council Members,
Below is a letter I sent on Dec 22 to Graham and I got a reply from him on Jan 19 acknowledging it and attaching
additional info on the CUP filed by the First Baptist Church. I want to make sure you all see it again, since the topic of
community center status seems to be on the table and the parking situation seems not to have a solution. Please pay
special attention to the safety issues and traffic burdens. I sent a message to Mayor Keene a few months ago and got no
reply.
Thank you,
Tim Cain


Hello Mr. Owen,
Thank you for taking on the analysis of the recent CUP application filed by First Baptist Church.

I was born in 1960 in Midtown and have lived with my wife and kids for the past 26 years at 2261 South Court in an old
Tudor 4 bedroom house built in the late 20s. We REALLY love the neighborhood life ( that is why we moved here ) of a
quiet street that “T”s off at both ends and our 3 daughters have lived their whole lives at this address. This is why we
exceeded our upper limit price, took on tougher jobs so we could afford it, and bought our house here in this
neighborhood. There are just two houses between us and the church, and its changing use has had an enormous impact
on our formerly quiet lifestyle.

We use North California as our connecting route whenever we leave our house (on bike or by car) because the Oregon
Avenue frontage road intersections are too dangerous due to their confusing nature for non‐residents who haven’t
figured out the stop sign‐keep clear‐wait here dance that is required to make the weight sensors work properly with the
traffic signal system. On North California, the traffic at the church, which is exactly where South Court T’s off, is also
very dangerous, for different reasons. There is an almost non‐stop flow of frantic cars dropping off and picking up one
student each at the church’s various tenant businesses. If you tally up all of the music classes being held, you can
multiply that times two to get the total number of trips by car to the curbs nearby, since there is virtually no parking on
the church premises available to these businesses. North California has been striped to accommodate the huge volume
of kids on their bikes coming and going from Jordan Middle school every day. The confluence of these middle schoolers
                                                             2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/5/2018 8:33 AM
in a hurry to get to school or back home, the now much narrower path for cars both ways, and the double parking drop‐
off realities of music student commutes make for an extremely high risk of life and limb at this location.

Additionally, the quiet calm atmosphere we paid a premium for when we moved to South Court has been replaced by all
those cars who aren’t frantically double parking for their drop offs. These “ahead of schedule” commuters know that
South Court is the closest source of curb space to the classrooms their kids need to get to, so they turn in and find the
closest unoccupied stretch of parking they can find. Since we live on this block, we have seen it evolve from a quiet
community of kids and pets able to play in their front yards, to a busy flow of parking and leaving on an hourly
basis. Can you imagine the number of 3 point turns that are made in each of our driveways just so all of these parkers
can come and go from North California, instead of Oregon Ave? Can you imagine the difference this constant activity
would have on the quality of life for a new family putting down roots on South Court? We have spent the past quarter
century preserving and enjoying our classic Palo Alto lifestyle, which features a front yard meant for use and enjoyment,
not just parking for a nearby business. This coming, going, backing up and parallel parking is clearly a big worry for a
new family with small children or pets, and it will surely reduce the pool of potential buyers who want to live here when
we are gone, and it will reduce the price those few would be willing to pay. What is our personal cost ( in terms of resale
value ) that we must pay for the church’s desire to take in businesses without even the slightest accommodation for the
realities of the traffic dangers they bring?

Please protect our safety and quality of life.

Thank you,
Tim Cain
2261 South Court
(650) 799‐7203 cell


Sent from Mail for Windows 10

From: Ronald Wilensky
Sent: Wednesday, December 20, 2017 3:19 PM
To: Bonnie Flanagan; Laura Seitel
Cc: Sarah; Brunicardi David & Caryn; Sheppard Barbara; david recht; tim cain; margiecain@rocketmail.com; mahen
ranchod; Loy Martin; Debbie Nichols; Karen Ivey
Subject: Re: Baptist Church & CUP....letter just received from City of PaloAlto

Please see attached letter. I assume most (if not all) of you have received it.



From: Debbie Nichols <debbiegailnichols@gmail.com>
To: Karen Ivey <karenivey@comcast.net>
Cc: Ronald Wilensky <ronwilensky@yahoo.com>; Laura Seitel <lseitel@mac.com>; Bonnie Flanagan
<bonnie.m.flanagan@gmail.com>; Sarah <sburgrval@aol.com>; Brunicardi David & Caryn
<david.brunicardi@gmail.com>; Sheppard Barbara <barbshepp@gmail.com>; david recht <david.recht@gmail.com>; tim
cain <tim.cain@att.net>; margiecain@rocketmail.com; mahen ranchod <mahen.ranchod@gmail.com>; Loy Martin
<loymartin@icloud.com>
Sent: Wednesday, December 20, 2017 8:02 AM
Subject: Re: Baptist Church & CUP

I will attend the meeting. Thanks for organizing it. Debbie Nichols

Sent from my iPad

                                                             3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/5/2018 8:33 AM

On Dec 19, 2017, at 7:07 PM, Karen Ivey <karenivey@comcast.net> wrote:

       I will plan to be there at 4 pm as well. Thank you, Karen Ivey

       From: "Ronald Wilensky" <ronwilensky@yahoo.com>
       To: "Laura Seitel" <lseitel@mac.com>
       Cc: "Bonnie Flanagan" <bonnie.m.flanagan@gmail.com>, "Sarah"
       <sburgrval@aol.com>, "Brunicardi David & Caryn" <david.brunicardi@gmail.com>,
       "Sheppard Barbara" <barbshepp@gmail.com>, "david recht" <david.recht@gmail.com>,
       "Nichols Debbie" <debbiegailnichols@gmail.com>, "ivey karen"
       <karenivey@comcast.net>, "tim cain" <tim.cain@att.net>, margiecain@rocketmail.com,
       "mahen ranchod" <mahen.ranchod@gmail.com>, "Loy Martin" <loymartin@icloud.com>
       Sent: Tuesday, December 19, 2017 7:01:43 PM
       Subject: Re: Baptist Church & CUP

       See you on Jan12th at 4pm.

       Sent from my iPhone

       > On Dec 19, 2017, at 6:45 PM, Laura Seitel <lseitel@mac.com> wrote:
       >
       > Hi Bonnie,
       >
       > Thanks for all of this info. I like your agenda items for the meeting with Hillary, which I
       hope will happen after we neighbors gather on the 12th. I’m going to propose a start
       time of 4 PM but can be flexible if that doesn’t work for anyone.
       >
       > Also, have you seen the CUP yet? I haven’t been able to access it and I think the city
       is required to post it publicly. It won’t make much sense to meet as neighbors if we
       don’t know what we’re facing with the church.
       >
       > I’m looking forward to seeing many of you on the 12th. So far, Bonnie, Sarah, Ron,
       Mahendra, my husband Loy and I will be at the meeting at my house at 349 North
       California Avenue. Please let me know if anyone else can come. All are welcome!
       >
       > Laura
       >
       > On Dec 19, 2017, at 6:05 PM, Bonnie Flanagan <bonnie.m.flanagan@gmail.com>
       wrote:
       >
       > All:
       >
       > I spoke to James Stephens this afternoon & he’s proposed we have a meeting with he
       & Hillary Gitelman mid-late January to express our concerns. With the holiday break,
       we won’t have a date until the 1st week of January, but I wanted to give you a heads-
       up.
       >
       > Evidently, my emails with pictures showing all the cars within 2-3 blocks of both iSing
       & Mozart classes/events was of interest to Hillary.
                                                     4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/5/2018 8:33 AM
       >
       > I’m hoping all of you are open to a meeting with them. Meanwhile, we can each work
       on a list of the major concerns/issues that are impacting our neighborhood.
       >
       > Two items I mentioned today (& will include on my list) are:
       > 1) why is there not someone on site overseeing events & controlling issues when they
       occur - e.g. windows/doors open causing increased noise, illegal parking, dumped
       garbage bins
       >
       > 2) is a permit needed/required when a large event like the recent Iran concert
       fundraiser takes place
       >
       > Since the CUP has been filed & extensions will be permitted, due process required,
       etc this will go on for as long as the church can stretch this out.
       >
       > James said to contact him directly if you need/want more information. His email is:
       <James.stephens@cityofpaloalto.org>
       >
       > Thanks,
       >
       > Bonnie
       >
       > Sent from my iPhone
       >




                                                     5
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:28 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                               Carol Kibler <cjkib@sbcglobal.net>
Sent:                               Thursday, February 01, 2018 7:47 AM
To:                                 Council, City
Subject:                            Redoing arastadero




Hi.
I live next to arastadero.
I live with the the bad decision of bringing this place down to 2 lanes. ( the congestion the inability to get out from our
streets the long lines to get off of arastadero)

Please to don’t spend anymore money to help this Street. No amount is worth the money unless your putting it back to
4 lanes.

Spend the money on another project
I heard there are many areas that need help

Or give the money to help the police station Rebuild

Carol Kibler
Sent from my iPhone




                                                              1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/5/2018 8:36 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Mel Kronick <melkronick@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Sunday, February 04, 2018 10:57 PM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        Reduction in PA Fire Department Staff



I recently learned of the reduction of staff of the PA Fire Department effective January 2018. This department
has always been an important and valued asset to our community. I strongly recommend that the City Council
revisit this issue and reconsider its decision. Palo Alto is growing bigger and more complex and I believe its
needs for emergency services is only going to increase in the months and years ahead.

Thank you for your consideration of my input.

Mel Kronick
1156 Forest Avenue
Palo Alto 94301




                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/5/2018 8:38 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Ron Wilensky <rwilensky@yahoo.com>
Sent:                          Monday, February 05, 2018 12:19 AM
To:                            Filseth, Eric (Internal); Kou, Lydia; DuBois, Tom; Holman, Karen; Fine, Adrian; Kniss, Liz
                               (internal); Scharff, Gregory (internal); Tanaka, Greg; Wolbach, Cory
Cc:                            Keene, James; Gitelman, Hillary; jonathan.lat@cityofpaloalto.org; Owen, Graham;
                               Council, City
Subject:                       Request denial of CUP Application No. 17PLN-00446 for Community Center at 305
                               North California Avenue



Dear Members of the Palo Alto City Council:

Please do not approve a Conditional Use Permit (CUP) that would allow the church at
305 North California Avenue to operate as a community center for up 560 people or
more, Monday to Thursday 9AM to 10PM and Friday and Saturday 9AM to 11PM. A
community center of this size and level of activity is inappropriate in quiet, residential
neighborhood zoned R-1 (10,000).

A very important reason to deny the permit is that a community center attracts so
many people, and the proposed operating hours will bring heavy traffic and parking
congestion that would endanger bicyclists. The applicant has no parking off-street
parking available to attendees of activities at the community center. Therefore, the
many cars arriving at 305 North California Avenue park on the street, either adjacent to
bike lanes or on nearby streets."

305 North California is at the corner of Bryant Street and North California Avenue, which
is where two heavily-used bike boulevards intersect. These bike lanes serve students
traveling between their homes and Jordan Middle School and Palo Alto High School as
well as adults going to other parts of Palo Alto or to the California Avenue bike tunnel
under the Caltrain tracks. That intersection is so dangerous that in several months the
City will be installing a traffic circle to calm traffic. Neighbors have witnessed many near
accidents caused by people parking at 305 North California not paying careful attention
to bicyclists riding in the adjacent bike lanes.

Because of this danger to cyclists, the community center not meet all the criteria for a
CUP defined in PAMC 18.76.010. According to this municipal code in order to issue a
CUP the City must find that “granting of the application will not be detrimental or
injurious to property or improvements in the vicinity, and will not be detrimental to the
public health, safety, general welfare, or convenience.” Operation of a community
center that is active 7-days per week through most of daylight and evening hours will be
detrimental to safety since traffic and parking from people using the community center
will endanger bicyclists on the heavily used Bryant Street and California Avenue bike
lanes.

Thank you for considering my request.
                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/5/2018 8:38 AM


Best regards,
Ron Wilensky
Resident of Old Palo Alto




                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/5/2018 8:37 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Robert Neff <rmrneff@sonic.net>
Sent:                              Sunday, February 04, 2018 11:45 PM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           Ross Road Bike Boulevard looks good.


Dear City Council,

I'm excited to see the progress on the Ross Road Bike Boulevard. I rode it today, and I like the road markings and traffic
calming features. All traffic moved at a moderate speed.

The traffic circle at Ross and Meadow is almost ready! Much of the street work is done, and the STOP signs should be
replaced with YIELD signs soon.

Thank you for your support of this project.

Robert Neff

Emerson and Loma Verde

Palo Alto




                                                             1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:33 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Joseph Harwood <joseph.harwood@yahoo.com>
Sent:                              Thursday, February 01, 2018 11:09 AM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           Ross Road Bike Boulevard


Hello,

I wanted to ask that the Ross Road Bike Boulevard design be reconsidered. As it's currently being implemented, bike
riders will be forced to ride in the middle of the road every few hundred feet. Bike riders are going to be hit by cars
because of the current design, especially at night when drivers don't see that the road is narrowing and bike riders are
about to be forced to swerve into their path.

Thank you.

Best,
Joseph Harwood




                                                             1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:34 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           JIM MAPLES <maples@comcast.net>
Sent:                           Thursday, February 01, 2018 12:33 PM
To:                             Council, City
Cc:                             maples@comcast.net
Subject:                        S.U. GUP: If Stanford expands, then it should help with downtown Palo Alto parking



I am strongly opposed to Stanford adding any more people to the local area. There are already too many people
and too much crowding. However, it appears that some expansion will likely occur, and so we are reduced to
finding ways to mitigate the effects of that expansion.


One thought that occurs to me is that Stanford can help Palo Alto with parking -- in particular with parking in
the University Avenue downtown area. We all know what a nightmare that's become, and it will only get worse
with Stanford's increased population. My proposal is that we ask Stanford to open up their parking lots -- in
particular the athletic/stadium parking lots in the arboretum -- for use by workers in the downtown area. Some
of these lots are already open to the public, but at a high fee -- $16/day. At the present time, these lots are
almost completely empty during typical workdays. I believe that Stanford should provide low-cost monthly or
annual permits for these lots to anyone who can prove that they work in the downtown area. The university
could then easily add a shuttle stop to the existing Marguerite bus lines so that workers could park there in the
morning and take the shuttle to work downtown. This would cost Stanford almost nothing, would be a boon for
low wage workers in the downtown area, and could greatly help the parking situation.

Sincerely,

Jim Maples



751 Greer Rd

Palo Alto, CA




                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/3/2018 9:23 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                               Neilson Buchanan <cnsbuchanan@yahoo.com>
Sent:                               Friday, February 02, 2018 11:38 PM
To:                                 david.rader@pln.sccgov.org
Cc:                                 Supervisor Simitian; Council, City; city.council@menlopark.org
Subject:                            Stanford GUP/EIR: Peer Review of TDM and other transportation programs




Please require Stanford to fund periodic [not less than every 3 years] peer review of its TDM
assertions and programs. Peer review consultant should be jointly selected by SC County and Palo
Alto City Council, if possible.

For example, See peer review programs provided by firms such as www.altrans.net


Peer Review
Commonly outlined in a site's EIR, a peer review process is required by the permitting authority (city, county, etc.) to
verify whether or not EIR mandated goals have been achieved. The results of a peer review can mean the
difference between construction being completed or completely shutting down. ALTRANS has undertaken peer
reviews of site-wide TDM plans, as well as reviews of specific components and goals of TDM plans. ALTRANS'
experience as a TDM organization lends the advantage of knowing what a successful TDM plan looks like on paper
and in practice.

Altrans - Alternative Transportation Solutions: Services


    Altrans - Alternative Transportation Solutions:
    Services
    Altrans, Transportation Management Association specializes in
    traffic demand services for businesses, schools an...




Neilson Buchanan
155 Bryant Street
Palo Alto, CA 94301

650 329-0484
650 537-9611 cell
cnsbuchanan@yahoo.com


On Thursday, February 1, 2018, 9:18:52 AM PST, Neilson Buchanan <cnsbuchanan@yahoo.com> wrote:



                                                                1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/3/2018 9:23 AM
Please consider the following issues in your evaluation of Stanford expansion plans

1. The term, or period of approval, is too long. Nobody can accurately or crudely anticipate work,
transit, academic and housing parameters during the years stated in the GUP. The best solution
would be mutually reasonably terms to reopen approval every 8-10 years.

2. Stanford is making wild transportation assumptions, especially about improved Caltrain capacity to
service to its students, faculty and employees. Development incentives have created a massive
wave of housing/commercial development throughout the rail corridor. Caltrain service is almost
guaranteed to disappoint the employers and employees assuming live/work benefits along the
corridor. There is no data addressing the obvious surge in demand that will chase "boarding" as
these projects move toward completion. Planning scenarios are not rocket science and are being
willfully avoided by agency and city official whom we blindly trust.

3. Stanford is making questionable demographic assumptions, especially impact upon PAUSD. I fully
support the comments submitted by the PAUSD Board

4. Let's keep perspective. Stanford planning process is better than any other private or public
process in the entire Bay Area. Let's acknowledge a 90/10 rule. 90% of Stanford planning has
proven to have real merit. 10% of its planning is obscure and out of public view. This 10% is not in
the interest of citizens impacted by plans presented by Stanford. Stanford questionable claims and
short-comings can be addressed by an open audit process involving outside experts to professionally
fact-check performance goals in the GUP.

5. Trust; but verify.

Neilson Buchanan
155 Bryant Street
Palo Alto, CA 94301

650 329-0484
650 537-9611 cell
cnsbuchanan@yahoo.com




                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/3/2018 9:23 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                          herb <herb_borock@hotmail.com>
Sent:                          Friday, February 02, 2018 4:49 PM
To:                            david.rader@pln.sccgov.org
Cc:                            BoardOperations@cob.sccgov.org; Supervisor.simitian@bos.sccgov.org;
                               Kristina.loquist@bos.sccgov.org; Council, City; Clerk, City
Subject:                       Stanford University 2018 General Use Permit Draft Environmental Impact Report, State
                               Clearinghouse No. 2017012022


Herb Borock
P. O. Box 632
Palo Alto, CA 94302

February 2, 2018

Mr. David Rader
Planning Department
County of Santa Clara
70 West Hedding Street
San Jose, CA

STANFORD UNIVERSITY 2018 GENERAL USE PERMIT DRAFT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
REPORT
STATE CLEARINGHOUSE NO. 2017012022

Dear Mr. Rader:

The California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) provides that the
following information is required in the Environmental Impact Report (EIR)
to adequately and completely analyze the project and its reasonable
alternatives, because there is substantial evidence that the information
is needed to analyze the project and its alternatives.

Failure to supply any of the requested information below in the EIR is a
prejudicial abuse of discretion and a violation of CEQA.

TIME POINTS REQUIRED

For each of the requested information the EIR must provide data for the
(1) the date of adoption of the 2000 GUP, (2) today's date, and (3) the
last date for which the 2018 GUP applies at full build out.


ACADEMIC AND ACADEMIS SUPPORT FACILITIES

CEQA requires that the whole of a project be analyzed.

                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/3/2018 9:23 AM
There is substantial evidence that Stanford has academic and academic
support facilities in the jurisdictions outside the area covered by the
GUP, that Stanford is in the process of shifting some of those activities
currently in the GUP area to places outside the GUP area, and that
Stanford intends to continue placing such facilities outside the GUP area.

For each of the three time points, provide the address, total floor area,
and total number of employees for each of the facilities and the specific
function (e.g., Chemistry Department, Patent Office) located in each
facility. If any of these facilities is coterminous with an Assessor's
Parcel Number, provide that number.

For each of the locations provided, indicate whether the land is exempt
from taxation, or if not exempt from taxation, whether it is eligible for
exemption.


HOUSING

There is substantial evidence that Stanford has student, faculty, and
staff housing outside the area covered by the GUP.

For each of the three time points, provide the address, total floor area,
the population served by the housing, and the number of students, faculty,
and or staff in each location.

If any of these facilities is coterminous with an Assessor's Parcel
Number, provide that number.

For each of the locations provided, indicate whether the land is exempt
from taxation, or if not exempt from taxation, whether it is eligible for
exemption.


MARGUERITIE SHUTTLE

There is substantial evidence that the location of Marguerite shuttle
stops affects the traffic counts depending on whether the location is
inside or outside of the traffic cordon.

For each of the three time points, provide the average daily traffic for
each line; the peak boarding time and peak deboarding time and number of
passengers boarding and leaving at peak times for each stop on each line;
and whether each stop is inside or outside the traffic cordon.


CALTRAIN AND HIGH SPEED RAIL



                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/3/2018 9:23 AM
There is substantial evidence that Stanford employees and students are a
significant number of Caltrain passengers using the using the Palo Alto
(University Avenue) and California Avenue Caltrain stops.

For each of the tree time points, provide the average daily number of
Stanford affiliated passengers using each of those two stations leaving
and boarding those stations.

In the case of the third time point provide three versions of the data:
(1) current Caltrain schedule; (2) completed Caltrain CalMod program; and
(3) completed Caltrain CalMod program and completed California High Speed
Rail peninsula segment.


STANFORD FOOTHILLS

There is substantial evidence that Stanford has approximately 1,250 acres
of alienable land in the Felt Lake - Interdale area in unincorporated
Santa Clara County on both sides of Highway 280. Unlike Founding Grant
Land, the alienable land can be sold anytime the Stanford Board of
Trustees chooses to do so.

Provide the Assessor's Parcel Number and acreage of each parcel of
alienable land and a map showing the location each of those parcels in
relation the GUP area.

Thank you for providing the requested information as required by CEQA.

Sincerely,

Herb Borock




                                                     3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/7/2018 1:26 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                          suekemp@AOL.com
Sent:                          Tuesday, February 06, 2018 2:27 PM
To:                            Council, City
Subject:                       Street Sweeper



I hope this email will go to someone who can suggest a possible change. The street sweeper went
by at midday today, his usual time, and brushed as vigorously as usual, but using no water.
All he was doing was blowing a big cloud of dirt into the air. What he did made the air worse, and
street not much, if any, better. I know using water is a bit difficult, what with our droughts, etc. But
blowing a cloud of dirt into the air doesn't help anything.

Sue Kemp
271 Seale Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94301




                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/7/2018 1:28 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Leah Russin <leah.russin@gmail.com>
Sent:                              Tuesday, February 06, 2018 8:03 PM
To:                                Council, City; HRC
Subject:                           Support for Palo Alto to be a CEDAW city


Dear Commission and Council Members-

This Thursday, the Human Relations Commission will consider asking City Council to adopt a local ordinance
implementing principles of the United Nations (UN) Convention on the Elimination of all forms of Discrimination
Against Women (CEDAW). The ordinance would authorize a gender equality task force to conduct an analysis to study
the gender equality issues that affect the City of Palo Alto and propose policy and programmatic change, if needed.

CEDAW was adopted by the UN in 1979. Today, the only countries failing to ratify it are Iran, Sudan, Somalia, Palau,
Tonga and the United States. Cities for CEDAW is a country-wide effort to encourage cities and counties to adopt and
implement the principles of CEDAW. 15 years ago, Palo Alto passed a resolution encouraging federal ratification of
CEDAW. And now Palo Alto should join other municipalities in becoming a CEDAW City.
Becoming a CEDAW City, in concrete terms, would commit resources to understanding local gender equity issues by
conducting an analysis of city operations including workforce, programs, and budget, establishing an oversight body to
monitor gender equity, and providing ongoing funding to support implementation of CEDAW principles. While resources
are always limited, and choosing this may mean another need goes unheeded, Palo Alto must be a leader and demonstrate
its dedication to gender equity.

The #metoo and #timesup movements show us that the time to implement CEDAW principles is now. I urge you to take
appropriate steps to ensure Palo Alto becomes a CEDAW City.

Thank you,

Leah Russin

PS- a version of the language above ran in Monday’s Daily Post as a letter to the editor. See attached.




                                                             1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/7/2018 1:28 PM




                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/7/2018 1:28 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Joanne Koltnow <joanne.koltnow@gmail.com>
Sent:                          Tuesday, February 06, 2018 10:14 PM
To:                            Council, City; Keene, James; Mello, Joshuah
Cc:                            Michael Eager; Paul Machado
Subject:                       Thanks! And a permit allocation suggestion



Dear Council members--

Thanks for listening to Evergreen Park neighbors as well as staff--and thoughtfully discussing a
very complex issue. Along with you, I'm looking forward to new software that will enable staff to
allocate non-resident permits more equitably and better track who's getting them.

For the upcoming period, however, I'd like to suggest a workaround to address the 'land-rush'
aspect of permit allocation.

SUGGESTION

      Remind all affected businesses of the permit renewal period.
      Initially, distribute only half of the maximum allowed to each business. [Up to five permits
       instead of ten.]
      Establish a short grace period of non-ticketing that matches the time before staff releases the
       remaining permits.

OUTCOME

      Permits won't run out before all requests are in.
      Staff will get more complete data about who is requesting how many, and what the total
       shortfall is.

DISCLAIMER
I realize this suggestion makes the process a little more cumbersome. [For each request over five,
staff will have to do two mailings.] But everyone will be treated more fairly--and staff will get
more useable data. [Right now, the shortfall is complaint driven rather than captured via the
software.]

--Joanne Koltnow, Evergreen Park resident




                                                      1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/2/2018 10:32 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                   celia chow <celia.cchow@gmail.com>
Sent:                                   Thursday, February 01, 2018 9:55 AM
To:                                     Gitelman, Hillary; Stump, Molly
Cc:                                     Council, City; Architectural Review Board; Atkinson, Rebecca
Subject:                                The shot clock is running out on Verizon’s Cluster 1


Dear Hillary Gitelman and Mollie Stump:




I would appreciate it if you would confirm that you will not allow the shot clock on Verizon’s fifteen “Cluster 1” proposed cell towers to
expire before the Architectural Review Board holds a public hearing on Verizon’s resubmitted applications.




We at United Neighbors are concerned because:




    1. The City’s Wireless webpage continues to report that the Cluster 1 shot clock expires
       on February 14, 2018. As you know, when a shot clock expires, proposed cell towers are
       deemed to have been approved.

    2. Verizon’s resubmitted applications are not on the ARB’s agenda for its February 1,
       2018 hearing. (They are also, by the way, not on the ARB’s agenda for February 15, 2018.)


Thank you for your help, and I look forward to hearing from you.




Sincerely,




Celia Chow




                                                                      1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/3/2018 9:23 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Arthur <abobrove@gmail.com>
Sent:                              Saturday, February 03, 2018 8:45 AM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           Truck blocking Seale. No warning. No effort to move


On Saturday morning, 8:36am
this is what we faced as we passed Brett- Harte Street.

Rules and laws don’t matter!

Arthur Bobrove




Sent from my iPhone




                                                           1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/7/2018 1:25 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Palo Alto Free Press <paloaltofreepress@gmail.com>
Sent:                              Tuesday, February 06, 2018 8:43 AM
To:                                Council, City
Cc:                                Kniss, Liz (external); bjohnson@paweekly.com; swagstaffe@smcgov.org; Perron,
                                   Zachary; Watson, Ron; bwelch@dao.sccgov.org; Stump, Molly;
                                   Gary.Goodman@pdo.sccgov.org; Scharff, Greg; James Aram;
                                   sdremann@paweekly.com; Cullen, Charles; SWebby@da.sccgov.org;
                                   gsheyner@paweekly.com; allison@padailypost.com
Subject:                           Truthful stories vs Revenue


This where Dave Price now gets most or the vast majority of his news....

What do you think is more important revenue or truthful stories...

He’s never followed up on anything and when he is challenged? He shuts down and blocks your emails.. Or he files false
and deceptive Federal copyright claims and does not follow due process protocol. Why? The man is the epitome of
FakeNews...

Mark Petersen-Perez




Sent from my iPhone




                                                             1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/5/2018 8:39 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Jim Lewis <jimlewis@aol.com>
Sent:                              Monday, February 05, 2018 6:34 AM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           World Peace. Is It Possible?


Honorable Mayor Kniss and Council Members:

You may ask, why write about World Peace when it may, or may not, be possible.

I write, because it will never been possible, unless good people stand up and do something about it. Frankly, if the world
population said "enough is enough" to its leaders, prospects for peace would increase.

Locally, you may say "it isn't our problem". Wrong ! It's everyone's problem as the slaughter of human life globally
directly or indirectly affects us all. Afterall, the expression says "Think Globally, Act Locally".

If you don't take a stand locally, then you may wish to consider discussing at a future Palo Alto City Council meeting,
whether you wish to actively SUPPORT those that do. Frankly, it's lonely out there standing up to evil. Taking it for
granted "as a given" may only perpetuate it. Those whose lives make a difference in protecting ours deserves to know
that we are grateful and appreciative for what they do.

If you agree, here are a few organizations in which you may wish to provide "49c of diplomacy" by sending a letter of
support, or better yet, joining in their efforts, as follows;

1) MAYORS FOR PEACE

    Over 2,600 mayors worldwide have chosen to join this international organization. If you are not already a member, this
group may be one in which you wish to support. Their website is: www.mayorsforpeace.org. Established in 1982, this
international organization is dedicated for the promotion of peace. It was nominated for the 2011 Nobel Peace Prize.

2) PEACE ONE DAY

    Started in 1999, this non-profit organization established September 21st each year as a day of non-violence,
international unity and cooperation. In 2001, the United Nations General Assembly unanimously passed a resolution
supporting this effort. The United States Senate also passed a similar Resolution. www.peaceonday.org

If this is important to you, then I encourage you to take the time to take a stand. Your life and mine may depend upon it.

Respectfully,

Jim Lewis




                                                              1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/3/2018 10:22 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                               Pat Marriott <patmarriott@sbcglobal.net>
Sent:                               Saturday, February 03, 2018 10:15 AM
To:                                 Council, City
Subject:                            worth reading -- really!


Council Members:
I don’t know this blogger, but he writes well‐researched articles about critical issues we’re all facing. Definitely worth
reading. Below are excerpts from just 2 of his posts.
           Pat Marriott
http://meetingthetwain.blogspot.com/2018/01/palo‐alto‐work‐live‐commute.html
Palo Alto: Work‐Live‐Commute
EXCERPTS:
Conclusion: Palo Alto is a poster child for bad (or lack of) urban planning on a regional level. Transit infrastructure is
insufficient and cannot be made sufficient without paying billions of dollars just so Palo Alto and Menlo Park can
continue creating jobs while leaving other cities to build and provide services for housing workers.
Yet with the geographic limits of Palo Alto (hills on one side, bay on the other), and the layout of Palo Alto streets for
single family housing it is hard to see how increasing housing to accommodate the number of jobs is possible without
creating total gridlock in and around Palo Alto. Which makes it self‐evident that further job creation in Palo Alto is not in
the best interests of the region, including Palo Alto itself, since widespread resentment may force it to dramatically
change itself in unpleasant ways.
One reason promoted for increased density is to supposedly bring down housing prices so that more people can live
in Palo Alto near their work. Some hope this would reduce congestion and greenhouse gas emissions. This runs
counter to experience ‐ if increased density lowered housing prices, reduced traffic, and pollution, why doesn't NYC
have low cost housing, light traffic and clean air?
If you increase the density, two things happen.

First Thing: More people will be trying to fit on a fixed amount of land so the bidding for land will raise the price of
land. If you attempt to distribute the increased cost of land over more units by building up to have more rental income
per acre you trigger the second thing.

Second Thing: Building higher gives more rental income from the greater number of units per building. But, the price of
land is based on the income that the land can generate ("bid‐rent pricing") so the price of land will rise along with the
total apartment building income. Therefore building up doesn't make rents cheaper because the landowner "captures"
the supposed economies of building up. As noted, lower Manhattan and Hong Kong are very expensive, despite
(actually because of) their high density housing.

Increasing density won't lower the cost of housing as I showed at length and in depth here
http://meetingthetwain.blogspot.com/2017/02/is‐there‐housing‐crisis.html




                                                              1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 2/3/2018 10:22 AM
Whom do we blame?
Blame the Residents? Palo Alto's residents bought nice little houses on a nice quiet streets. Those streets weren't
designed to handle a lot of traffic or parking and cannot be retrofitted to do so. They have every reason to not want to
have their house in the perpetual shade of 8 story apartment buildings everywhere.

City Council? The city council wants the revenue from having businesses and sales tax revenue in town to fund the city
services including pensions that the state legislature authorized in 2000.

Businesses? If the prestige of a Palo Alto address brings more business why not pay the higher rents?

Workers? Palo Alto workers sought and accepted jobs there. Every day they go to work in Palo Alto they are making a
decision to keep on working there. They are making a trade‐off between high‐rents‐with‐less‐commute and lower‐
rents‐and‐longer‐commutes. They may not like the trade‐off but they are adults so must accept the consequences of
their fully informed decision.

What you see in the above description is a lot of groups each reasonably seeking their own best interests. Is there a bad
guy there?

Notice that there is the complete absence of an "adult in the room" to look at the big picture and decided what is best
in the overall long term for everyone.

Housing takes a lot of city services meaning a lot of city money ‐ more than residential property taxes bring in (except in
richer communities like Los Altos Hills). On the other hand, businesses provide taxes including sales taxes if the
corporate headquarters is located in the city. Businesses typically require very few city services. A proper mix of each
makes a community financially stable.

ABAG (now MTC‐ABAG) gets a lot of criticism but not for what they most deserve it for. That is the complete failure to
allocate housing, and jobs so as to optimize commutes. That is their mission ‐ to set jobs and housing to minimize
VMT and associated pollution at which they have failed miserably. Just putting up housing doesn't do any good if you
can't get from the housing to the jobs. Maybe they don't have the power, or the will, or maybe they are getting bad
advice but whatever the reason, Palo Alto is a poster child for bad planning on a regional level.

http://meetingthetwain.blogspot.com/2018/01/housing‐jan‐2017.html
Housing Update 1/31/2018:
EXCERPTS:
At no time in the last 26 years have more than 28% of San Francisco residents been able to afford a house in San
Francisco. Most of the time it has been bouncing around between 10% and 25%. SF is expensive now, has been in the
past, and will be in the future. Even in Sonoma County the percentage of people who can afford a house has varied
from 10% to, at the very most, 50%. Usually affordability is around 30% meaning only 30% of residents can afford to buy
a house. This is not a crisis. This is a permanent condition.
If you want continued growth in high income jobs, then housing will keep rising in cost.
If you want housing costs to stay constant, then you can't have continued growth in high paying jobs.

Perhaps the anger floating around about housing costs can be directed at the companies that can't figure out how to
create jobs outside the SF Bay area. They can have R&D centers in India but not Indiana?
So how is this boom different? Mainly in the builders' PR. By terming this, not particularly exceptional boom, a
"housing crisis" and getting everyone to accept that term, they create a panic‐driven urge to over‐ride all reasonable
zoning limits. And ignore the problems of getting people to and from work.
                                                             2
                                                                . L- --·.1


                                                                                           O·GO               TE
                                                 .   ~~nu             L- 1 ·                SAN FRA·NCI~
                                       ':;            .J'   J    8   :r/                                      -~
I support Castilleja's proposalitQr. ... at
                                                                                                              ~-<
increase enrollment and mode~rnize  . its , 1                                                         ~       r("')O          ·"•• ••I   .   ;.· ~

campus because ... ~                      . ,., _                                                     c::o        ""Tl   ·~

                                                                                                          I
~A-0/J.()                                                             I                               en      ;:ol>
                                                                                                              f"Tl-0
                                                                                                              :Al ..
                                                                                                                         • . ··•. · .

                                       ~
              ~...
                                                                                                      ::i:-   u)O
~J                                           -       .a..                                             ::i:    o~
~!                                ~      0                                                            §       '"'1Cj
                                                                                                      0       ~~
                                                                                                              ..,,n
 ~'t"                                                                          Office of the Clerk°'             )>
              ~      ~·




 ~
     U<-                      ~~~
                          J       ..
                                                                               Please distribute to all City Council Members
              µ_,,                                                             250 Hamilton Avenue, 7th Floor
                                                                               Palo Alto, CA, 94301
          .                    ~~~
 ~~!
              ~
                              j} }Ji1/I iJ1Ji11/1111ii11iJ;ii11 /Jljj IJI 11/11 /liJl11i ;,; Jjl1 JJ1/ll
     ..




~.
OJ
                                                                                              -w     n!2
                                                                                                     ---r
                                                                                             .,,     -t-<
  campus because...                                                                          ,..,    -< 0

  _
 a~, ,-
    a'if.
         ~Aa.A/fL
         -           ·~
                              .:; ~-I e
                          ~ ii'/
                                      "4f.A
                                                    /
                                                   (!.
                                              / _ !/.
                                                .:::, / j
                               j,.,u.J J. 0 ,,; 6s/ //"1"'
                                                             ,
                                                                                         ~
                                                                                             m
                                                                                              1
                                                                                             en
                                                                                             3:19
                                                                                                    n..,,
                                                                                                    ~-:-u
                                                                                                    5? ;!!
                                                                                                    u)O
                                                                                                    !i;f:
-;:r: ~ I£~~ ~ yoV:41:fl                                         OfficeoftheClerl<Q                 ;;9
t;i.J')()JM I ~r Jk,L -Cf/l.£v,/.;/'f1                           Please distribute to   al~y C~Members
  -,,,       I~~~· Pl-f1-{:;J!,~~                                250 Hamilton Avenue, 7th Floor
{/J~                ~ ~L ~1n·
                                                   ab,~1_
                1
            (                                                    Palo Alto, CA, 94301
  ) /iavV                      id              z
U  ;f1k ·
r' -h, f
                      "
                    ~t;
                          yti,f. --
                             .,A.N"
                                       a /) !J-/TtJ,
1t          1-/                  ~· . I fib/,1·'"'J''
                             - -·~ti'w/J         El ,1..,,1 11·····
                                                             111111 J'1i, 11·.
                                                            11      1
                                                                           11111 11'1'·1·1
                                                                                         1
                                                                                  ·r '" ••             '~ ~'f -.,
                                                                                                                                            _____......,._
                                                                                                                                                 ....    f! ,,.
                                                                                                                                                                  !°"~-·----·         -
                                                                          J                           •. • ~, .. J..                                    .u.
                                                                 ~:: .   . . . . ."'- ,..,.             .    ..   .   '·~.              -    •.   _.,. 4~~
                                                                              .          . ·!"St"o                      ..    -     .... . -                                      .

                                      I            -
                                                                              . : .~ i>~. .·i·~.
                                                                                                       .;T;. .               ._.,. •-
                                                                                                                                            . -; i!n\ GO~ Te:
                                                                                                                                                -.,~ " .:J   ~-
       ~'.;. ~ .r.,~,.. ~·                                 ~ lt3c,·                          .              .~,:· ·~ ~,~~ ·        .          ". ~~ltt· FRattCt
                                                                                                                                                    1
                                          ,'" .:-" .

~-.~
...,
 •       •       -
                     .. -. ...'·~
                      , ,. a '
                                  ,,,.
                                 "•
                                               . '
                                                 ·•    I
                                                                         .        . "'
                                                                                  "•         ,.
                                                                                                  .         ·IF        . .
             .                  ~ _    .. ~ " ••. ,      ~OtS
r··          l~ su,p'p0 1 ·1.'. Castirle1a s proposal t~  -                                                                                                                n!2
j,           inere~se enrollment and modernize its                                                                                                                  co     ---i
                                                                                                                                                                           -4-<
  -          campus because ... ...J.W__ .r~
                                                                                                                                                                    ~      -<
                                                                                                                                                                    G1     ("")~
                                                                                                                                                                           r
        ~ d                                   I?       chtMM-U -16                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                    a"'
                                                                                                                                                                           rri-u
                                                                                                                                                                           ::;:::.i:t>
                                                                                                                                                                           ;s::r

   rwv1~ JJµ.f~L1J- ~·
                                                                                                                                                                     ~     c;,;o
                                                                                                                                                                    :x     ol>
                                                                                                                                                                     s••   ..,,~

I {efrV<4 :(,,~ ekck
                                                                                                                                                                           '"Tlo
                                                                                                                             Office of the Clerk 0                         c=; (-,
                                                                                                                             Please distribute to all c.1';1Coufi2jsb4embers

   ~~,{.~~.                                                                                                                  250 Hamilton Avenue, 7th Floor
                                                                                                                             Palo Alto, CA, 94301

  #- r.( ~ I~ -1-o
     ~~~i~~
     CA~ ~ t;. i1fi}~~jJ}ll/J 1Jl11l/ 1 1 11 1w11ii1 1Ji1WJi/i11i
             .                            tW.'-f-~.
(
    ;,::
    0
    .~
    ):>
    ::::J
    ::::J
    QJ
    ::::J
                                                                                       --   ~-   ....,- -      ............... -------rr-,......-.


I-
}. ..   !   #CJ     .........   I   <>.·   l,. [   I   I      -p1L   r   :£.."S:.•~~ • -


                                                                          -~~ · :::~:                       ....
    ...~··sl.ippori:> Castilleja1s-p'1:9pos'al ·to-.~
                                                                                                               "      ,;.
                                                                                                                                               ~ .~--<
      ! increase enrollm'ent and moderni·ze its
        campus because ...
                                                           -.                                                                                   co
                                                                                                                                                     t
                                                                                                                                                          no
                                                                                                                                                          r-....,.,
                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                                               .....       l"Tl-0
                                                                                                                                                         • :::ol>
        jl-   ~ ~                                          -fW_          _(~                                                                    ~
                                                                                                                                                          ~r­
                                                                                                                                                          u)O
                                                                                                                                                ::x       ol>
        jw,       &y>;f,,; /;-:a- +, 011 i-s.e_Q_                                                                                                  "Tl!:i
                                                                                                                                               i?. ~o
        ~Of~I:~
                                                                                                                                                          ("')   ~
                                                                                                                                               C>         Mc->
                                                                                                     Office of the Clerk                        c.n         'l>
                                                                                                     Please distribute to all City Council Members

    1~·c~ ~ 't(- QJvVv                                                                               250 Hamilton Avenue, 7th Floor
                                                                                                     Palo Alto, CA, 94301

    t/t~ j ·~ '1-L(J lu
    ~~10A~J
,   ft.. ~ rfj ~J}g/JJJ~.;J;1 ; 1 1;11',//,/liJ/ll/•ul//ui/•1"/'"illn
    ©
     ()      :;:>;:
             0
     Q)      ~
     (/)     )>
     r+      ::::J
             ::::J
             OJ
     Cl)     ::::J
\   \.....
     Q)
                                            ~"

                                ~
                                     .
                                    .-:-·   ~·




                                                             n£!
                                                      co     ~-4
                                                      ..,,   -<-<
                                                             no
 (Y)V(\.L~~
                                                      l""I
                                                      CD     , .,
                                                       '     ...,~
1 ~~6pfff                                             CJ\
                                                      ,,.
                                                             ~r-
                                                             cfiO
                                                      :x     o:P
fe~~                            Office of the Clerk   S      ~!:4
                                Please distribute to all Cigoun[i)~mbers
                                250 Hamilton Avenus;17thf'Fl~r
~~~'                            Palo Alto, CA, 94301


       -··     ~

 Ja~    -p   s-~Jlf1/lji/IJbfl.jJiifJ1Ji/J./l/Ji
       ;:,;:
       0
       ::!?
       )>
       ::J
       ::J
       OJ
(I)    ::J
'--·
         RETURN ADDRESS:        &-~ . ~   ..
                                          --
    1-

         ..                               .0           GO.· TE,
                                          .. ; <SAH FRANCl ~
                                                           .-         -.:-                                         )
                                                  -.
                                           ,.                   CJ~~~ I~~':.\ .·
                                          ~. ,   • 1
                                                        ..,,
                                                         co
                                                        rri
                                                                -:.~
                                                                -
                                                                -< 0 .
                                                                      ~
                                                                             ", . . ~. ···1 ~ , . ., '7~·. ,
                                                                             ~-·~--- •p.
                                                                                 - ·~     ~'
                                                                                 . . . -.'~ l
                                                                                                ;
                                                                                                               t"'(
                                                                                                          .:~ ..



                                                         CD     p-n                                  !1f! :
                                                          I     J'Tl~
                                                         ~      ::C->--
                                                                ::;s;r
                                                         ,,.    tho
                                                         :ir;   o~
                                                         -          '"Tl~
                           Office of the Clerk     ~o    9
                                           C~Du~~mbers
                           Please distribute to all
                           250 Hamilton Avenue, 7th F~or
                           Palo Alto, CA, 94301

~
            "lo·~


                     .   ~
             ·-· ,




 m
\....;...

 OJ
                                                              ----·--                     --- ~ '·
                                                                                                        ~




I support Castill eja's proposal to
increase en rollment and modernize its
ca mpus because ...


k         ~/., &__~ "'                                                        co
                                                                              ,,, .....
                                                                                            -n!?
                                                                                               ......
                                                                                            -i-<
                                                                                            -<

"'~-r7-r[
                                                                              m             no
                                                                                            r ,,
                                                        .                          I       f"T1 :-0

~vl. -e.tA ~~
                                                    Office of the Clerk N            ::ol>
                LfotuilL                            Please distribute to all Citf;Cou~f'.Members



~t~ ·                                        .      250 Hamilton Ave~. 7t~or
                                                    Palo Alto, CA, 943cfP. ~!:j



     airr
                                                                              -           - 0

 f~~ r)~ ~> a.Ji!ruJ 12..xhihl.L.
                                                                             -            C")"
                                                                             ~            f"T1 ("')
                                                                                              .):>

              ~. c.                ,   ir-
           .llJV"A -..ft1JKrv
                      C;:t/3Ci •   11111P'iiil1irl1l1'1'111i111111i11,111 Ill i" 111         1
                                                                                  ' l"l'lllil \i1l1
                                         -   \)
                                       ~
~                 ~
                  --       ~           0
                                       .....   ........
()        :A      (0       0~
          0       ,...                 (0
OJ        ~       Ji-I              ......
                  re       r;,J
                                       =~
                                       Ji-I
(/)       )>
,......   ::::l              t""'ja ::"
          ::::l   t""'ja   n ::" re
          QJ      r;,J
          ::::l   •   JI
                                       ~
<D
'--·                  JI
                  =o,.... ...... =
                           are         ~
OJ                          -....      ~
                                      JI
                                                     ---=-------~~
                                                                - '•                                            .   ~




                                                                  --
                                                                                       ...   ...........,   •               \o
                                                     ~ ~----
                                                             - - --
                                                     _..---,_CD - -....,..
                                                              .
                                                                        '
                                                                            -
                                                                                 -t
                                                                                       c                    ' .....
                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                    ,f•-_
                                                           ._._ __ ,..,
                                                     ________      ..,,          ~·<
                                                                                -"(;   a--~
                                                                                                     - '"T·,.·.J·
                                                                                                           - ""
                                                                                                               •I



I support Castilleja's proposal to                   •.       -    - r::D        r- "Ti
                                                                       I         f'Tl-n
increase enrollment and modernize its                               N           ::o.l>
                                                                                :;:.;r
campus because ...                                                  .,,         (1)0
                                                                    :x
       (!I~
. &f:r µJa_                                                                     o·J>
                                                                    N"          -rir-
                                                                    -           _,,-f
                                                                    s:-         c:;s>
 ~clt0 ~ bJ                                                        I'\)         ,,, ('")
                                                                                    >
~~des~                                       Office of the Clerk
                                             Please distribute to all City Council Members

 t~ Lt,tlA4r                                 250 Hamilton Avenue, 7th Floor
                                             Palo Alto, CA, 94301

fwt!lf)u~~~-- ,1
 ~ ~Juoff,()_u;__~
  l !lA ~Q i /3C: •111IIV 11·1 111· 1l· lll1l11lllll11ltl! 1l
                     :::
                                    1   1                         1111 1
                                                                        ! ll1lili i1l •• 11 1lll
  w~frJl ~        fWfl'{_tJ""'"-'-- -, .ru ~                              .                     _..
                                    ~
©                   c-e:?-o
()        :A        ~        ;- 9 ::
          0
OJ        :::::!?   =~~~
(/)       )>        ~ ~
,......   :J
                        = .. Q      ~        ;..I
          :J        t""o+a
                    =        n      ._.      ~
          OJ        ~
(1)       :J           "'
                             ,.,.
                             ~
                    . . ,. . =          ""
                                    ""'~.
'--·
OJ                     "'q
                        .           ~~
                                    "'
     -
~-
         L   .f2   a nn cr. ,,f"i'P'· -~P'---u CA 9::ao
                                                 Pt-i 3 t
                                                                                                        ~
                                                                                                        -<
                                                                                                        no
                                                                                                        I     -rt
                                                                                                        rrl..,,
                                                                                                        ~::>
                                                                                                        :::-;•
                                                                                             -0             cho
                                                                                             :IC            o~

                                                                                               ..
                                                                                             (..)           9T1~
                                                                                                            ~o
                                                                                              -
                                                                                              N
                                                                                                            C").
                                                                                                            rrl("')
                                                                                                               l>
                                                     Office of the Clerk
                                                     Please dist ri but e t o all City Council Members
                                                     250 Hamilton Avenue, 7th Floor
                                                     Palo Alto, CA, 94301




I                                            1' l iji ll 'iii i iii Iii JI iji i l iii I jl lil Ii ii   .
l
@
()
CJ
(/) ·i,
r+
City Council Retreat Feb 3, 2018 - David Shen, resident of Churchill Ave


Mayor Kniss, Distinguished City Council Members, and Staff,

I would like to propose some items for your consideration today in
setting your 2018 priorities.

As a resident of Old Palo Alto, and after reviewing your document 8897
whose Attachment C contained public comments, I see there are a lot
of comments regarding maintaining the integrity of our neighborhoods
and specifically calling out the traffic problems.

I urge the Council to make maintaining the integrity of our
neighborhoods as one of the priorities for this year and as a focus in
other activities, especially in the grade separation project. If our
neighborhoods' sanctity, personality, and most importantly safety are
to be preserved, then grade separation options must consider their
effect on the surrounding roads and properties.

I therefore urge the Council to strongly consider removing eminent
domain as an option. By its very nature, eminent domain disrupts the
surrounding communities and especially the families directly affected
by it. And if eminent domain is triggered, then it is likely that the option
chosen will be highly disruptive to the neighborhood during
construction and its result, which will likely turn local roads into major
thoroughfares, will exacerbate traffic through our previously peaceful
neighborhoods.

Already we see traffic increasing through our local roads. The responses
in document 8897 Attachment C show that many consider this a major
issue. I urge the Council to take action in sensible and cost effective
ways.

For example, our North Old Palo Alto group has proposed that
Embarcadero Road be improved at the underpass where it necks down

                                                                           1
                                                                          I
                                                                          C~U:ACIL PETING
City Council Retreat Feb 3, 2018- David Shen, resident of Churchill Ave   ~~efore Meeting
                                                                              eceived at Meeting

to 3 lanes, and at the following traffic lights between Paly High and
Town and Country. It would seem that improving an existing underpass
would be much less expensive and disruptive than creating new ones
but yet have a large positive impact on traffic.

A second example is our proposal to close Churchill Ave on the west
side. If an underpass were to be built at the Churchill/Alma
intersection, that would mean Churchill would by default become a
major thoroughfare, thereby adding traffic through the neighborhood.
Other more disruptive and destructive, as well as expensive,
modifications such as widening Churchill would need to happen to
support such a change.

Lastly I make an appeal for the children. I have two that attend the local
elementary school. Each day I see their safety is compromised when I
transport them in my cargo bike and cars are blowing through stop
signs in front of me. More traffic through our neighborhood is not going
to add to their safety.

If eminent domain is triggered, the families whose children attend local
schools will have their lives upended if family's homes are seized
beyond their control. Likely many of them will not be able to replace
their residences in Palo Alto and will be forced to move out of the area.
I ask you - what do we tell our young children, who have just become
comfortable with local school life and friends, if the City considers their
priorities higher than our homes and has seized them out from under
us?

Thank you for your time.




                                                                                               2
        SIGNATURE PAGE FOR RAIL GRADE SEPARATION PROJECT

We the members of the Old North Palo Alto Community (NOPA) support the attached
positioning letter regarding the Rail Grade Separation Project I ie, Connecting Palo Alto. We
also endorse the corrections and recommendations cited in the responses to the Circulation
Study and Financial Study conducted by the City of Palo Alto.

Enclosures:

       Enclosure 1: Community Letter to City Council on Grade Separation
       Enclosure 2: Response to Rail Grade Separation Financing White Paper
       Enclosure 3: Response to Existing Conditions Report Draft & Travel Demand Model
         Validation Report



SIGNATURE                            NAME                                    ADDRESS

                                                                         110    ~ f/v&
                                      AAt.ee~J~
 ~                                                                       7M..o 11-ttv {// C/4?.P<


 dt~~                                \-\0-K k      Sou~-                     I fo o
                                                                              &?A- :i   ~
                                                                                                   «
                                                                                        lltL .e I v ~ e
                                                                                                 ~'-{JC\
                                                                                                           \Jb.
                                                                                                          (i



          r

                                                                             (,bO}l(e!v~
                                    A-v~\E:       Red                        e~~~q'{~O(

~                                    Qva. c.a.- ko                            /Cic).,,vW4V~
                                                                               7J ~Iv tfJ/;f9'Ysf

,]~'~ ~ /c.r;_                                         /.-o              1&-M~
                                                                         ~//) ~ )9~J e)y'

~~/11 !.z.-p                         fav>"-~J                c.v0
                                                                  ;ti~ 7cJuo.__
                                                                   p;1~/fff;f, 'JN'/
                                                                         I


~ru;h!                                0tls-orJ      (t1_~r/tf                  //1 Cumlull Ive.
                                                                              14 !u 41fA ?I/.ivI
SIGNATURE     NAME                     ADDRESS




~Wfa.u:±
 Ct/P-=-~ Chi lu o5 lec,7              I ~c, c/-vtAvch~t~ -fwe,

tJb-,         l r'- h .si~ 'fr,, 51.et. (1{ c/tu>rliirl/;Jue_

                                       \\l ( 'nurc\\~ l\ A\t't.

                                       I ~-33   AlMIA St


             h,/q r, ~q//     Jo, 'L   /( 9 Chvccbd.L
                     J '                  I                p, c.JJ_

             .id_rrn~ ~ ~~             //I a-fil~
                            •

SIGNATURE   NAME                ADDRESS



~           l®e ffle!taf-       l ~EDCV!~·11\ NJ,
                                r28~~
~           cS'~>t~               ~   I
                                          ?4-3{)/




                                 \c; Zt:s A\ vY\O\ St~

             Le'l\o.. ~


   ~
--:Jl~./
~
~WV

~~
QJA /)v-
 SIGNATURE              NAME                                ADDRESS



 ;i~~                    {..f',l'ro-tfU A (;;i-J I).        l '2-~     ClNwi&... ,t l



~2-                      [mz/u-~                            t29Q~i/_
                                                                  '



  ~/:/~                   Ker0j          TurkIV"l            [3 S- lh uvd~, ~\ \


 f~                     0?amttla 'Pa ) )t1 6                 }'3~ )      4)W)q


 ~                       l/tcfW~         J ui:J~             '10 Chµ:rzf4 Lt            flv~




-fl~~\f~                  Ne-Jd... facl<V)                            /8 2 d\k~ ,·(( /tJ(

J{Jv.,L;)-,_/ {v--t.L   !f!vllI          Sy/v~.sf.- r         /       ~17-$(v1) le A- v't r


~ ?i                    / 'f:m a?crrh                       /W C~c{e ·//

L~                      ~q_   YI   Ce.   /fa   Y' f,   'n   /:;o         Cfvr-c./,//
      SIGNATURE   NAME                   ADDRESS



/~
("'
      ~-           Fe/,·~   5h r-e"'-.    llf)?Al~
SIGNATURE   NAME   ADDRESS
                    f 5-1-5 -;A L- 11A _5-r
  I~               ftr-L o -A1 T" Cit q 4-JD/
"   .   .   .

                SIGNATURE   NAME   ADDRESS
                                                      •   I   I   ,_




SIGNATURE    NAME                 ADDRESS


Q~l~~ ~"    Com~ ~~\SL\~          ~6(~'~'-\\~

~IL
,
    1JJ~I    /(41ZP/ll Mc/il/Jf    ;5 :zo /14mz/pa;-fl-1P
                                                        tJ-
To: City Council Members, Palo Alto City Council
From: Residents of North Old Palo Alto Community Association

RE: Rail Grade Separation Project/ "Connecting Palo Alto"

Dear City Council Member,

We, the residents of the North Old Palo Alto community district, support public transportation,
the electrification of Caltrain, and the expansion of commuter rail capacity. We support a
collaborative, transparent and data-driven selection process that engages relevant Palo Alto
constituencies to find the best outcomes. We feel strongly that the best option ·will include
holistic research considering financial, community, environmental and safety cost-benefit
analyses.

Guiding Principles
We strongly believe that the City's research and prioritization for grade-separation projects
should conform to generally accepted principles that should be non-controversial to Palo Alto
City Council and the citizens they represent, including:

   1. Projects that return the highest ROI on invested dollars;
   2.   Projects that maximize use of existing and/or underused infrastructure;
   3.   Making pedestrian safety a highest priority;
   4.   Maintaining community neighborhoods integrity; and,
   5.   Ensuring no eminent domain of City homes.

Summary Position on Grade Separation
Given the large relative benefits to the above Guiding Principles:
   1) We support Lowered Rail (tunnel or trench) grade separation at the Churchill Avenue
       crossing.
   2) We are adamantly opposed to any full or hybrid Lowered Road grade separation at
       Churchill Avenue given the clear disadvantages relative to other solutions (see below).
   3) As an alternative to Raised or Lowered Rail (#1), we support keeping the Churchill
       Avenue crossing at-grade and closing it at the West entrance if several cost-effective
       measures to increase East-West traffic capacity and student/pedestrian safety in the
       neighborhood are implemented. (see next)

Supporting discussion in reverse order:

#3 - Specific Solutions to Increase Traffic Capacity and Pedestrian Safety in North Palo Alto:
We have already invested significantly in the Embarcadero Road underpass, so before creating
another half-billion-dollar project 400 yards to the South (including the costs of eminent
domain), let's optimize and improve the existing solution that we have today. We believe the
following relatively low-cost solutions will increase the daily traffic capacity on Embarcadero
Road underpass and dramatically improve Palo Alto H.S. student safety without taking any
homes or costing the City a half-billion dollars:
                                                                                                     ..   D ·-



    1) Implement a pedestrian/bike underpass at Churchill Avenue for safe Palo Alto H.S.
       student transit.
    2) Build 2x bike/pedestrian underpasses underneath Embarcadero Road at the
       intersections with Kingsley Avenue and entrance of Palo Alto H.S. on existing public
       lands, which will dramatically increase student safety and eliminate the 3rd traffic signal
       on Embarcadero Road that significantly impede East-West traffic today.
    3) Significantly Increase Capacity and Utility of the Embarcadero Grade Separation
           a. Broaden underpass to 4 lanes eliminating a huge bottleneck to E-W traffic
           b. Remove pedestrian crossing light from Paly H.S. to Town & Country (per above)
           c. Implement Left Turn signals from West & East bound Embarcadero to Alma Rd.
   NOTE #1: There is a consistent span of open, usable public space on both sides of
   Embarcadero Road spanning between 50-100 feet wide in different locations between PA
   HS entrance and Kingsley Avenue (see map in appendix}.
   NOTE #2: Our proposals above intend to increase the capacity of the Embarcadero Road
   underpass to accommodate for the lost Eastbound capacity if Churchill Avenue is closed at
   the West side. It is not intention our intention to imply that we want to increase the
   speeds on Embarcadero Road, nor eliminate any existing stop lights or controls.

#2 - Critical Disadvantages of Full or Hybrid Lowered Road Underpass at Churchill Avenue:
Churchill Avenue is a relatively low capacity intersection that is less than 400 yards away from
an existing major grade separation at Embarcadero Road, and any proposal to create a Road
Underpass at Churchill would have costs and disadvantages that far outweigh the benefits:
    1) Financial: There are 36 homes that would be fully claimed and 6 homes that would be
        partially claimed by eminent domain in any underpass design given the maximum 6%
        decline required on both sides of the railway. At this intersection alone, that would add
        at least $200,000,000 for this single underpass before construction has even begun.
        Spending a total of $350-400MM for grade separation at a single intersection that is 400
        yards from an existing underpass is not an acceptable use of taxpayer funds.

   2) Community & Environment: Building an underpass at Churchill would likely require
      lowering the Alma Street 22 feet and all the arteries feeding it to the same level. At 6%
      maximum grade, that would wipe out an entire neighborhood more than 370 feet in
      both directions, make homeless hundreds of residents and school children, kill hundreds
      of trees, and constitute a new "concrete jungle" in what is today historic Old Palo Alto
      and Southgate neighborhoods. It would also leave Palo Alto H.S. staff parking lot
      stranded and possibly impact part of their football field. In a city committed to
      increasing housing stock and school infrastructure, this is unacceptable.

   3) Student Safety: Leaving the train at-grade misses a real opportunity to remove the
      significant danger and loss-of-life potential presented to students directly adjacent to
      the tracks at Palo Alto H.S. Every single other solution mentioned above (rail
       under/overpass and all the improvements to bike/pedestrian underpasses} would do
       the opposite - they would improve student safety by removing direct student
       engagement with cars and trains. This is our chance to get a double win and solve this
       critical student safety issue.
   4) Construction Impact: Building an underpass at Churchill would require a massive, multi-
      year long construction project that would shut down Alma Street. An underpass would
      require dropping the elevation of Alma Street and Churchill Avenue roughly 22 feet,
      which would utterly shut down all north and southbound traffic and leave all
      surrounding communities stranded for years.

#1- Significant Advantages of a Lowered Rail Solution (trench I tunnel):
The benefits are significant for any grade separation that drives the rail above or below grade.
   1) Construction Impact: A bored tunnel (and possibly viaduct) construction would
       dramatically reduce the enormous construction impact to our larger community, which
       would be near cataclysmic in any Underpass proposal. [Building a 22 foot deep
       underpass at Alma & Churchill would shut down traffic for the entire community for
       years.] There is almost no price that can be placed on the avoidance of this construction
       on our community.

   2) Financial Benefit: Implementing a bored tunnel solution would open the above ground
      right-of-way for various community uses, including a parkway and ped/bike path
      spanning Palo Alto, but also provide income generating opportunities like leasing land to
      low-income housing developers and an open air farmers' market. Leasing the land for
      these purposes would generate significant income to offset the cost of construction.

   3) City I Community Benefit: Reclaiming the open space created in a bored tunnel
      approach would allow the City to realize several of its stated goals that are otherwise
      very difficult to realize given a lack of available open space. These types of objectives
      have been proven already in several cities, like NYC that recently reclaimed an elevated
      train track to create a public parkway. The City could achieve objectives including:
               • Increased low income housing
               • Increase pedestrian/bike pathways
               • Increased open space

In summary, we believe that there are many viable solutions to create acceptable traffic and
safety conditions at the Churchill Avenue intersection, including Lowered Rail, or blocking the
Churchill Avenue crossing while making traffic and pedestrian improvements at Embarcadero
and Churchill. We are, however, adamantly opposed to a Lowered Road I Underpass solution
given the large and unacceptable detrimental impacts that would create.

Thank you for your consideration of our community's concerns and interests.



Endorsed by the members of the North Old Palo Alto {NOPA) community association
{NOTE: Reference Signature Page for Names & Addresses)
                      ......
Figure 1- Existing
Embarcadero Road
Underpass Satellite
Image Demonstrating
the Ample Room
Available for
Renovation and
Improvements
~·   ..   ."
           To: City of Palo Alto Rail Program Management, City of Palo Alto City Council

           From: Palo Alto residents living in/around the Churchill/Alma intersection

           RE: Response to Rail Financing White Paper Draft entitled Funding for Palo Alto Grade Separation and
           Crossing Improvements (dated November 20, 2017)

           To whom it may concern,

           We the residents of Palo Alto living in/around the Churchill/ Alma intersection appreciate the efforts of
           the city to improve our public transportation systems in the Bay area. We also appreciate the research
           data you have provided us and have reviewed the Rail Financing White Paper Draft entitled Funding for
           Palo Alto Grade Separation and Crossing Improvements (dated November 20, 2017). After reviewing the
           documents, we have the following comments:

           The study does not list cost estimates for Raised Railway options.

           There are no options for a Raised Railway considered in the study even though this option is more cost-
           effective than trenching or tunneling. Other information available from the City lists options that include
           a Raised Railway, so why were costs not considered in this paper?

           In Table 1, there are cost figures for the "Individual Grade Separation" at Churchill Ave and Alma St that
           we believe to be much too low due to the need for eminent domain that would be necessary for this
           option.

           The cost range in the table is listed as $98M - $200M. However, this option does not include the cost of
           eminent domain, which could involve the City taking 36 parcels along Churchill Ave and Alma St which we
           estimate to be in the range of $200-250MM. The crossings at Meadow Dr and Charleston Rd also do not
           seem to have this cost factored into their estimates. We believe that leaving out this critical cost
           component of the project in the listed cost for the Individual Grade Separations is very deceiving. As
           such, eminent domain figures need to be added into future cost figures for such a scenario to accurately
           reflect their cost.

           The White Paper adopts a biased assumption toward certain financing options. Placing most funding
           burden on homeowners suggests significant increase ("'5-21%) in property tax and special parcel tax. On
           the other hand, potential tax revenue from other options, such as business license tax and Caltrain fare
           surcharge, is underestimated substantially.

           Based on the proposed 0.05%-0.25% increase in property tax, each homeowner will see an average
           increase in their property tax bill in the range of $1,750-$6,500. On average, each employed residents will
           bear additional $500-$2000 (2% increase annually) property tax burden each year for the next 30 years.
           This is on top of existing average $16,819 per tax property bill (2017), which is about 12.3% of the mean
           household income. The assess property tax value (2016-17) is at $32B (vs. $29.4B in 2015-2016 referred in
           this paper). We feel that options that take the burden off of Palo Alto homeowners could look as follows:


           User based funding: Since commuters, businesses and employers (including Stanford University) in Palo
           Alto will be the main beneficiaries to train electrification (and needed grade separation), i.e., enabling
their workers to gain easy access to jobs/workplaces in Palo Alto, the funding burden ought to come from
(and shared by) the main beneficiaries rather than Palo Alto homeowners/residents. As a matter of fact,
homeowners/residents are likely to suffer the most due to construction and overloading road
infrastructure with large daytime population. Please refer to the general statistics from City of Palo Alto at
http:Uwww.cityofpaloalto.org/news/displaynews.asp?NewslD=596&TargetlD=52

Business license tax: We propose increasing the business license tax per job from $10 to $173 (lower end)
and from $40 to $691 (higher end) which will generate the same amount of tax revenue, $713M, as an
increase in property tax of $1,838 from each employed resident. If the tax increase is $1000 per job, the
tax revenue for 30 years will be $2.55B. Please note that San Francisco has currently imposed a $1,029
business license tax per employee.

Caltrain Fare Surcharge: Raising the Caltrain Fare Surcharge from $0.25 to $1.00 (lower end) and $1.00 to
$3.00 (higher end) will also generate substantial revenue of "'$30M one way (or $60M for in/out) at the
high end. Note that SFO Bart station has imposed a surcharge of $4.40 per trip to/from SFO station (6,448
exits/day) to fund the SFO Bart station construction debt. Palo Alto stations has 9,052 average weekday
boardings.

We urge Palo Alto City to negotiate with Stanford University for an In-lieu fee (like Yale and Harvard/MIT
to their host city to help cover the cost of municipal services) to support funding of the grade separation,
given the fact that Stanford University receives $11.6 billion exemption from property taxes. Note that
Stanford University contributes to significant traffic increase due to recent residential development
(Mayfield) and on-campus appointment/employment.

Value Capture Funding from New Development on the land/space freed up from grade separation can
be an effective way to create a win-win situation with significant funding if the development can be
confined to only surrounding areas of existing stations, rather than throughout the rail track areas. This
will minimize development impact on the existing residential neighborhood.

Incorrect Assumed El FD/CFO Boundaries (Figure 1}
EIFD/CFD identified areas are to be a defined district to divert the property tax or impose special taxes on
property owners, as the areas will be benefited most from the grade separation project.
However, based on the assumed EIFD/CFD boundary map attached (Figure 1), aside from the local
businesses surrounding existing Caltrain corridor, the rest of the identified areas are all residential
neighborhoods (along Churchill Ave and Meadow Dr) which are likely to suffer the most due to
construction and traffic. As previously discussed, the benefited district should encompass more
commercial areas.

Conclusion:

We believe that the issues mentioned above exist in the Rail Financing White Paper Draft entitled Funding
for Palo Alto Grade Separation and Crossing Improvements (dated November 20, 2017) and should be
rectified before further information is presented and any decisions are made. We also urge the City of
Palo Alto to focus on getting funding support mainly from Regional, State, and Federal Resources and
follow the successful examples of our neighboring cities as the Case Studies has shared in Appendix A.
Based on the grade separation case studies of 7 cities, 4 were able to finance their grade separation
projects by mainly obtaining funding from regional, state, and federal Resources.
ll..Jll   •   •   •




                      •   San   Mateo (2017): $180M with only $12M funded by the City of San Mateo itself
                      •   San   Bruno (2014): $147M fully funded by County, State, and Federal sources
                      •   San   Gabriel (2018): $293.7M fully funded by County, State, and Federal sources
                      •   San   Diego (2016): $2.08B fully funded by County and Federal sources

                      Of the other 3 cities, 2 are still in discussions of their funding sources (Mountain View and Menlo Park).
                      Only Berkeley in 1966 formed a Special Service District and taxed its citizens to pay the difference in cost
                      of $18M between a Bart aerial line and an underground option.
..   .   ...



               To: City of Palo Alto Rail Program Management, City of Palo Alto City Council

               From: Palo Alto residents living in/around the Churchill/Alma intersection

               RE: Response to Existing Conditions Report Draft (dated November 2, 2017) and Travel Demand
               Model Validation Report (dated October 30, 2017)

               To whom it may concern,

               We the residents of Palo Alto living in/around the Churchill/Alma intersection appreciate the
               efforts of the city to improve our public transportation systems in the Bay area. We also
               appreciate the research data you have provided us and have reviewed the Existing Conditions
               Report Draft, dated November 2, 2017 and Travel Demand Model Validation Report, dated
               October 30, 2017. After reviewing the documents, we had some comments:

               There are multiple references to Sample Scenario 6 having Churchill Ave at-grade and also
               with grade separation. Which one is correct?

               There is a discrepancy between Table 1 on pg. 7 of the Travel Demand Model Validation Report
               and Sections 4.13 and 6.3. In Table 1, it says that Sample Scenario 6 has Churchill Ave with a
               grade separation but Sections 4.13 and 6.3 state that Churchill Ave is assumed to not have a
               grade separation. Figure 6.3 also shows Churchill with grade separation. Does Sample Scenario
               6 have Churchill Ave at-grade or grade separated?

               Traffic was measured on both north and south sides for Charleston Rd and Meadow Dr, but
               not for Churchill Ave.

               We are wondering why traffic was measured on either side of Charleston Rd and Meadow Dr
               but not at Churchill Ave. In Figure 5.1 of the Travel Demand Model Validation Report, it shows
               sensor location 8 north of Meadow/Alma, and sensor location 4 north of Charleston/Alma.
               However, there was no sensor on the north side of the Churchill/Alma intersection. Why was
               that data not collected?

               We the residents do not support having a grade separation at the Churchill/Alma intersection
               for a variety of reasons. After reading the reports, the data also supports no grade separation
               at the Churchill/Alma intersection.

               In Section 4.11 of the Travel Demand Model Validation Report, it states:

               In general, the outcomes of the tests are intuitive with those crossings that remain at grade
               shedding traffic to either the existing grade-separated crossings or any that will be newly
               constructed as grade separated. The exception is Churchill Ave which seems relatively
               insensitive to changes in the layout and functions of the crossings. This may be because
                                                                                                                 .....   lit




Churchill is used for very local trips that are unlikely to reroute without significant
inconvenience.

This implies that it would not be worthwhile to make changes as it is unlikely to affect traffic
patterns at this intersection.

In Table 3, it refers to Churchill Ave and states:


 Table 3 - Response of the at-grade intersections to change

        Condition

                            Remain
                                                        Closed                       Grade-separated
                            at-grade

    Lac:lltlon

    Palo Alto              Little effect       Sheds small amount of           Significantly increases traffic
   Ave / Alma                                   traffic to Ravenswood                  flows. (- 30%)
       St                                      Ave and University Ave

    Churchill              Little effect      Considerable diversion to      It is suspected that there would
      Ave                                     Embarcadero Rd, which if       be little effect on other grade
                                              widened could operate          crossings, if other separations
                                              satisfactorily.                implemented. Could attract
                                                                             small amounts of traffic.

        c.IW                 grows, Wiii
                    AS traTTIC                ~ome a1vers1on to              -s1gnrncant1y increases 1ramc
    Meadow          shed to Oregon            Charleston Road;                flows (- 50%)
     Drive          Expressway and            significant if Charleston is
                    Charleston Rd (if grade   grade-separated
                    separated)

   Charleston       As traffic grows, will    Not tested but likely to       Significant increases to traffic
      Rd            shed to San Antonio       either shed significant        flows (50+%). Some diverts
                    Road                      traffic to San Antonio         from San Antonio Rd.
                                              Road or reduce traffic
                                              overall



Table 3 also suggests that if Churchill Ave were grade separated (at considerable expense), that
it really would not affect traffic in a meaningful way. Therefore, we question the value of
spending effort, time, and money to grade separate Churchill Ave.

Table 3 also suggests that upgrading the grade separation at Embarcadero Road could alleviate
traffic concerns if Churchill/Alma intersection were closed to through traffic on Churchill. We
also believe that closing Churchill is a good solution, with needed upgrades at Embarcadero
Road to enable better road and pedestrian/bike traffic through the underpass.

We think that some sort of pedestrian/bike under or overpass should be considered at Churchill
to enable children to reach Palo Alto High School as well as children who bike to Walter Hays
A   •,   """




               Elementary School, since every school day there is considerable bike traffic across Alma on
               Churchill in the mornings to school and mid-afternoon when high school is over.

               This is another missing piece of consideration in the Existing Conditions Report Draft. In
               Section 2.1.5 Safe Routes to School, the report only considers four maps that cross at-grade
               intersections. These maps are for the schools: Briones Elementary School, Gunn High School,
               Hoover Elementary School, and Terman Middle School. The report is missing two more maps
               that cross at-grade intersections: both Palo Alto High School and Walter Hays Elementary
               School's maps show crossings at Churchill.

               We feel that the safety of our children and students going to and from school is paramount and
               that we need to consider ALL Safe Routes to School in our decisions regarding this project.

               Note that it is possible that bike traffic to/from Palo Alto High School could be diverted to the
               Embarcadero Rd underpass which is only 400 yards away from Churchill Ave, or the California
               Ave underpass, although that underpass could use some improvements due to its narrow
               pathway and lack of lighting.

               Conclusion:

               We the residents believe that closing Churchill on the west side with improvements for
               pedestrians and cyclists is the best and least expensive option for the Churchill/Alma
               intersection. After reviewing both reports, our position regarding the solution at Churchill is
               supported by its data and conclusions. Grade separation at Churchill/Alma would be very cost
               prohibitive but yet produce little change in traffic patterns. The data supports closure where
               traffic would be diverted to nearby Embarcadero Road, and that Embarcadero Road should be
               upgraded from its current design which is inefficient in its 3 lanes and multiple traffic lights
               between Alma and El Camino Real. Pedestrian and bike safety should always be considered and
               safe passages should be made to cross Alma and the Caltrain tracks.
