            DOCUMENTS IN THIS PACKET INCLUDE:


                LETTERS FROM CITIZENS TO THE
                   MAYOR OR CITY COUNCIL


    RESPONSES FROM STAFF TO LETTERS FROM CITIZENS


        ITEMS FROM MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS


      ITEMS FROM OTHER COMMITTEES AND AGENCIES


ITEMS FROM CITY, COUNTY, STATE, AND REGIONAL AGENCIES




       Prepared for:           9/10/2018
       Document dates: 8/22/2018 – 8/29/2018

                               Set 1
 Note: Documents for every category may not have been received for packet
                      reproduction in a given week.




                                                                      701-32
                                                                  COUNCIL MEETING

                                                                  ✔
                                                                          08/27/2018
                                                                      Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                6
Brettle, Jessica

From:              Karen Porter <porter.k10@gmail.com>
Sent:              Monday, August 27, 2018 1:54 PM
To:                Council, City
Subject:           2018 Zero Waste Plan on 8/27/18 Agenda




Dear Council,

The City's "Zero Waste" objectives are laudable, and the proposed plan includes many good
ideas. I have two comments that I ask you to consider.

1) Require more transparency re final disposition of blue-container recyclables, e.g., where and
how plastic, glass, paper, etc. are transported after sorting at GreenWaste's facilities and how
they are recycled and re-used; and

2) Require analysis and planning to develop a waste-to-energy facility (anaerobic digester or
other technology) to process yard waste, food and other compostables on site of the former
dump near Byxbee park that voters set aside in 2011 for this purpose; this will avoid having to
truck green waste miles down the freeway and pay someone else to process, can produce biogas
energy, and can provide a local compost source (the new sewage sludge plant is a good start
but not a complete solution).

Thank you,


Karen Porter
Greer Road, Palo Alto




                                                      1
                                                                 COUNCIL MEETING
                                                                          08/27/2018
                                                                      Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                6
Brettle, Jessica
                                                                  ✔




From:              Karen Porter <porter.k10@gmail.com>
Sent:              Monday, August 27, 2018 1:54 PM
To:                Council, City
Subject:           2018 Zero Waste Plan on 8/27/18 Agenda




Dear Council,

The City's "Zero Waste" objectives are laudable, and the proposed plan includes many good
ideas. I have two comments that I ask you to consider.

1) Require more transparency re final disposition of blue-container recyclables, e.g., where and
how plastic, glass, paper, etc. are transported after sorting at GreenWaste's facilities and how
they are recycled and re-used; and

2) Require analysis and planning to develop a waste-to-energy facility (anaerobic digester or
other technology) to process yard waste, food and other compostables on site of the former
dump near Byxbee park that voters set aside in 2011 for this purpose; this will avoid having to
truck green waste miles down the freeway and pay someone else to process, can produce biogas
energy, and can provide a local compost source (the new sewage sludge plant is a good start
but not a complete solution).

Thank you,


Karen Porter
Greer Road, Palo Alto




                                                      1
                                                                                  COUNCIL MEETING

                                                                                   ✔
                                                                                           08/27/2018
                                                                                       Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                                 6
Brettle, Jessica

From:               Wendy Hopfenberg <wendyhop@sbcglobal.net>
Sent:               Sunday, August 26, 2018 8:03 PM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            Support for Request to Modify 2018 Zero Waste Plan and GreenWaste Contract Negotiations


Dear Council Members,
I fully support Bob Wenzlau’s thoughtful letter below for council consideration. I was concerned to learn of some of the
endpoints for all our tremendous efforts toward recycling assuming it was all for good ends.
Thank you,
Wendy Hopfenberg




        ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
        From: Bob Wenzlau <bob@wenzlau.net>
        Date: Sun, Aug 26, 2018 at 1:34 PM
        Subject: Request to Modify 2018 Zero Waste Plan and GreenWaste Contract Negotiations
        To: "Council, City" <city.council@cityofpaloalto.org>


        Honorable Council Members,

        I request that you amend Item 9237 “Acceptance of the 2018 Zero Waste Plan” now on the
        consent calendar for August 27, 2018 to make the following important adjustments:

            1. Council should insert into the proposed upcoming negotiations with GreenWaste a
               contract amendment to audit and report on the disposition of recovered materials within
               six months in order to validate cradle-to-grave whether the disposition of diverted
               materials are acceptable to environmental and social norms.
            2. Council should request an update within six months to the Zero Waste plan that corrects
               diversion rates in order not to accept as “diverted” any waste materials where the
               management falls short of environmental or social norms.

        As the press has reported, China no longer accepts our papers or plastics driven primarily by
        the high levels of contamination. Countries like Vietnam, Indonesia and India have become the
        new receiving destinations. Recently Vietnam stopped receiving after becoming glutted. "One-
        dollar-a-day" workers in developing countries hand-sorting contamination from our separated
        paper and plastic is expected by GreenWaste. Ecology Action of Berkeley recently reported that
        bales of paper and plastic are now incinerated or dumped in the sea. As the recycling service
        for the City of Berkeley, they cleverly placed GPS trackers inside bales and tracked their fate.


        Our recovery facility GreenWaste does not audit the final disposition of recovered materials, and
        instead is grappling with the flow to keep materials flowing after the collapse of the Chinese
        market. We basically do not know where our materials go and the conditions along the way.

        A this time we do not know the fate of nearly 50% of our diverted recovered materials - the
        paper and plastics - and this must be factored into both our future contract with GreenWaste to

                                                           1
close this knowledge gap, and then into our Zero Waste Plan to reflect the findings of any audit
of the disposition of waste, and then plan accordingly.

GreenWaste Contract Negotiation. As stated above, please modify the contract negotiation
with GreenWaste to close the knowledge gap the disposition of materials “cradle-to-grave”
monitoring any processing step for environmental and social impact as they finally arrive to end
use. This is properly a duty of our contractor that represents proper environmental and social
management of Palo Alto’s diverted materials.

For example, the current practice in a foreign country could include several steps: the mixed
paper might be hand sorted to remove contaminants, then be processed to make a paper pulp,
then the pulp ingested to make a consumer paper product. Environmental and social
monitoring would be appropriate at each step. While the economic circumstances of developing
economies are different, there are minimal work conditions that Palo Alto must require
GreenWaste prove. Equally, environmental measures must be shown to be acceptable. Our
recovered paper and plastic should not be burned in dirty incinerators, dumped at sea, or be
processed where water pollution is generated. International norms already developed in the
garment and e-waste that should be extended to material diversion.

GreenWaste would trigger an audit upon selection of a new destination of our materials, and
occur annually thereafter. While GreenWaste would reasonably claim that the knowledge of
destination is a business asset providing competitive advantage, these concerns can be
mitigated with third party auditors and nondisclosure agreements. This obviously would be
easier as other customers of GreenWaste would demand the same, and as this became a norm
in our state. However, Palo Alto can take the lead here.

Zero Waste Plan. While it is likely prudent to adopt the update to the Zero Waste Plan, I would
request that an update be generated concurrent with the findings about the fate of our
waste. There is urgency if our wastes are in fact being handled in a manner that would not
meet our standards for environmental and social justice. Some of the repercussions to the Zero
Waste Plan are as follows:

      1. Adjust our Zero Waste performance to be true to the actual fate of the recovered
         materials. If paper or plastics are burned or dumped in the sea, this does not
         constitute zero waste. We must have a ZW plan that rather than showing a line
         always tipping to greater recovery, is in fact valid to environmentally sound disposition
         of these materials. A chart below shows where we might be if the outcome is that our
         current materials are not actually being recovered.
           Right-click or tap and hold here to download pictures. To help protect y our priv acy , Outlook prev ented automatic download of this picture from the Internet.




                                                                                                                                                                              2
      2. Inform our community of what is not recyclable so we can adjust our
         purchasing and sorting. For example, single film plastic (salad bags etc.) now are
         10 percent by weight of the municipal stream, and these are waste - they are not
         recycled. We tell residents to put them in the blue bin, but the fowl the recovery
         operations as well as have a disposition as waste. Our communication and zero waste
         performance must match what is actually being recovered.
      3. Work with our Assemblyman Berman to ask that all recovery operations validate
         the end use of validated and environmentally sound management. This must
         affect all communities and all businesses operating. Now the “markets” are
         proprietary and hidden. Staff certainly should lift this issue up to neighboring
         communities also using the same facility for processing our blue bin ingredients.
      4. Begin collaborating with our region to develop alternative processes for plastics
         and waste papers. The days of relying on global markets may have
         ended. Unfortunately the scale of our waste production will likely demand a strategy
         of energy recovery. In our sister cities like Linköping, we have seen efficient recovery
         systems that generate heating and electricity.
      5. Adjust our climate action plan to reflect the reality of our current waste
         management system. We should not have a climate report that does not factor the
         footprint of our diverted materials.


I am confident that given the direction to Staff they can return with a valid zero waste plan as
this is a value our community holds. I appreciate all of Staff's interest and support on this topic,
but equally I felt a role as a community member to push an issue that had not been adequately
highlighted.


I hope you will consider these thoughts.

Sincerely yours,

Bob Wenzlau




‐‐

Bob Wenzlau
bob@wenzlau.net
650‐248‐4467




‐‐




                                                  3
                                                                             COUNCIL MEETING
                                                                                     08/27/2018
                                                                                 Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                           7
Brettle, Jessica
                                                                             ✔




From:              herb <herb_borock@hotmail.com>
Sent:              Sunday, August 26, 2018 5:39 PM
To:                Council, City; Clerk, City
Subject:           August 27, 2018, Council Meeting, Item #7: Animal Shelter Operating Agreement with Pets in Need


Herb Borock
P. O. Box 632
Palo Alto, CA 94302

August 27, 2028

Palo Alto City Council
250 Hamilton Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94301


AUGUST 27, 2018, CITY COUNCIL MEETING, AGENDA ITEM #7
ANIMAL SHELTER OPERATING AGREEMENT WITH PETS IN NEED


Dear City Council:

The City of Palo Alto and Pets in Need have different objectives.

The City's objective as stated in the first paragraph of the first page of
the staff report (ID #8778) under "Background" is to "provide animal
control and sheltering services for the purpose of ensuring the safety of
people and animals, providing for the proper care and sheltering of
abandoned or neglected domestic animals, licensing domestic animals and
providing humane disposal of animals when necessary."

“The mission of Pets In Need is to advance the no-kill movement, reduce
pet homelessness, and find every dog and cat a loving home ... by
rescuing cats and dogs from public shelters in the Bay Area and beyond
when they are in danger of being euthanized due to space or financial
limitations.” (http://www.petsinneed.org/our-story/)
You need to ensure that any City funds spent for the proposed Animal
Shelter Operating Agreement with Pets in Need is for the purpose of the
local Palo Alto objective of fulfilling the State of California
requirement for cities and counties stated above, and not for Pets in
Need's narrow mission that is for "the Bay Area and beyond".
Animal control is a general government function. It is misleading to
describe General Fund money used for the animal control as a "subsidy".
The General Fund money used for the Airport is a subsidy, but I have never
seen staff describe that transfer of funds as a subsidy, although the
                                                        1
transfer of money from the General Fund to the Airport benefits a smaller
number of users, most of whom are not from Palo Alto, than the General
Fund money used for the Animal Shelter that benefits all Palo Alto
residents whether they own a pet or not, except for services to residents
of Los Altos and Los Altos Hills that are paid for by those government
agencies.
When did the City issue Honda a Conditional Use Permit for the lease of
City-owned land zoned PF?
When did the Architectural Review Board review the parking lot design for
Honda's parking lot on City-owned land zoned PF?
Thank you for your consideration of these comments.
Sincerely,
Herb Borock




                                     2
                                                             COUNCIL MEETING

                                                              ✔
                                                                      08/27/2018
                                                                  Received Before Meeting
                                                                                            7
Brettle, Jessica

From:              Suzanne Keehn <dskeehn@pacbell.net>
Sent:              Monday, August 27, 2018 3:30 PM
To:                Council, City
Subject:           Animal Shelter



To our City Council,

I hope you will approve of the partnership with Pets in Need to keep our animal shelter.
Working together does save quite a bit of money. Also Pets in Need is an organization,
a caring and well run organization, with a very long track record. I believe it is a Win
Win for our city. We need a full service animal shelter in the mid-Peninsula.

Suzanne Keehn,

4076 Orme St.
94306




                                                     1
                                                                               COUNCIL MEETING

                                                                               ✔
                                                                                       08/27/2018
                                                                                   Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                             7
Brettle, Jessica

From:              IdaRose Sylvester <idarose@siliconvalleylink.com>
Sent:              Monday, August 27, 2018 11:43 AM
To:                Council, City
Cc:                Hwangbo, Sachi; Washington, Jeannette; Macartney, Cody
Subject:           The Time is NOW: Palo Alto Animal Services + Pets in Need



Dear Palo Alto City Council

I urge you to move forward tonight on the Palo Alto Animal Services + Pets in Need partnership.

I am a Mountain View resident, impacted over the last seven years by Mountain View's move to SVACA. I am
also an active PAAS volunteer, having fostered over two dozen kittens in the last year, and have adopted
several of my wonderful animals from PAAS.

As a Mountain View resident, the service I have received as a Mountain View resident from SVACA during time
sensitive emergencies has been bad over the last seven years. When I reported a dog locked in a hot car, I was
told it would take hours for someone to arrive, which was way beyond the time the dog would survive. When I
reported a coyote kill in the middle of the road, so that the public hazard could be cleaned up, and the poor
pet scanned for a chip, I was told that they would "try" to roll a truck that day, and it was only noon. Perhaps
because Mountain View sits at the edge of the territory, or perhaps because the agency hasn't expanded staff
adequately to absorb a new city, we do not get what we need in the moment of extreme need.

As a volunteer, PAAS runs an exemplary program that values the LOCAL community. PAAS supports its service
district children doing community service, Scouts doing major projects, retirees who want to give their time
but would be burdened by driving far, and the other local community members who care about our animals,
and people, in OUR area. The closeness of the shelter enables local community involvement, and the staff is
incredibly dedicated to accepting a wide range of volunteers, creating a win win situation for both sides.

As an adopter, I have noted the incredible personalized attention PAAS gives pets. PAAS knows each animal,
and works hard to make the best match between adopter and pet. PAAS also does remarkably well with
"special needs" pets, never giving up on older pets, those with handicaps, or even those who need to be
adopted in groups. Our community benefits from the attention and care only a shelter for our community can
do.

I have had the pleasure to meet the Pets in Need team, and they are dedicated, incredibly experienced in
shelter management, and passionate about working with PAAS to support our community. The fit is right, and
the time is NOW to act to move this agreement forward.

Thank you,

IdaRose Sylvester
Mountain View resident



                                                        1
                                                                                       COUNCIL MEETING
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/23/2018 8:15 AM
                                                                                        ✔
                                                                                                08/27/2018
                                                                                            Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                                         7
Carnahan, David

From:                             Jo Hamilton <johamilton46@icloud.com>
Sent:                             Thursday, August 23, 2018 12:18 AM
To:                               DuBois, Tom; Filseth, Eric (Internal); Fine, Adrian; Holman, Karen; Kniss, Liz (internal);
                                  Kou, Lydia; Scharff, Gregory (internal); Tanaka, Greg; Wolbach, Cory; Council, City
Subject:                          Palo Alto Animal Shelter




To the members of the Palo Alto City Council


Hello. My name is Jo Hamilton. Although I am not a Palo Alto resident, I have had over 20 years of experience
working closely with both Palo Alto Animal Services (PAAS) and Pets in Need (PIN) as a member through the
years of several rescue groups. I am also a recipient of the Jefferson Award from KPIX TV. I write because I
feel that having PIN take over from PAAS would be a huge disservice for the animals and the residents in Palo
Alto, and surrounding communities and because I think the City Council has not been made fully aware of all
the ramifications of the decision of PIN taking over PAAS.
For reasons I will explain below, I believe that Palo Alto would lose these services if the operation of Animal
Services were turned over to PIN:
•        the low cost spay/neuter clinic that cares for animals in a timely manner. Any rescue group, especially at
this time of the year, is overwhelmed with baby animals, especially kittens. Before these young animals can be
adopted, all the rescue groups, as well as the larger shelters, require that the animals be spayed and neutered.
There is a 6 to 8 week wait to get an appointment for spay/neuter if you can get through to a person at PIN. That
is too long a wait time for rescue animals especially kittens. People are looking to adopt animals when they are
little and cute. PAAS is wonderful about working with rescue groups to get the animals spayed and neutered as
expeditiously as their schedule permits.


Rescue groups are not the only beneficiaries of the low cost spay/neuter clinic and the Wednesday vaccination
clinics. The low income residents in the area want to protect their pets too but going to a veterinary hospital is
often cost prohibitive. I called a couple of pet hospitals in the area and found the cost of a dog spay ranges from
$500 to over $900 and there would be an office visit (between $60- $80) as well. Most people want to be
responsible and not allow their animals to bring unwanted animals in to the world but they can’t afford the vets
prices.


Feral cats are also beneficiaries of the PAAS spay/neuter clinic. The shelter program helps keep the feral cat
population under control. PIN does not spay/neuter feral cats. I called and asked. All the rescue groups are
fighting every year to rescue, and find homes for kittens born to feral Moms and to TNR (trap,neuter and
release) the adults. Female cats can have up to 3 litters averaging 2 to 4 kittens per litter per year. Feral cats help
keep the rodent population in check. Imagine the population explosion if the feral cats are not spayed or
neutered in a timely manner.


•      taking in and caring for all kinds of animals (not just dogs and cats) that are strays or owner-surrenders
that come to their doors. PIN does not accept stray animals, owner surrenders, or animals that had previously

                                                             1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/23/2018 8:15 AM
been adopted from PIN, as their phone message states. Rabbits, guinea pigs, rats, birds are never accepted at
PIN. They are sent to PHS. or somewhere else as long as they become someone else’s problem.


•      the low cost vaccination clinics every Wednesday Noon–1:00, where people are lined up out the door.
On Wednesday, June 20th, the vaccination clinic saw at least 35 people with their animals for low cost
vaccinations and lasted much longer than the one hour that was scheduled. I know because I was there! PIN has
never offered such a program.


I also know that PAAS shelter staff have made upgrades to the shelter (eg the dog play yard and the rabbit
cages) and for the animals, out of their own pockets or from citizens’ donations because the city manager
wouldn’t budget funds.


As a rescue person, I am a long-time, active user of PAAS’ spay/neuter clinic, the low cost vaccination clinic
and we’ve also worked with PAAS to help long term shelter dogs who were being overlooked at the shelter find
their family at our Adoption Fairs. Look at the pictures on the highlight wall. Several are the result of the co-
operation between our rescue group and the shelter. Many dogs have been rescued from other overcrowded
shelters where they would have been euthanized. We count on those services that PAAS currently provides. We
are not the only rescue group in this position. All these services will be gone if PIN takes over the shelter.


I have worked with Pets In Need which is a private adoption agency with a shelter building. They have to report
to no one in the community about what they do, what animals they help and don’t help or what they do with
those animals. I know people who have brought animals to Pets In Need because they can no longer care for
them or that they found wandering the streets, only to be told they had to take them to Peninsula Humane
Society because PIN doesn’t take “stray” animals or “owner surrender” (even if originally adopted from PIN!).
They “cherry pick “ the most adoptable dogs and cats from shelters so their adoption stats look good and all
the others “be damned”. What about all the other animals, rabbits, birds, ducks, turtles, snakes, etc. that Animal
Services cares for but PIN doesn’t accept? Will they just be euthanized, rereleasted, shipped out of the county to
be someone else’s problem?


For quite a while, local shelters were not releasing animals to PIN because of PIN’s unhealthy medical practices
such as bringing in animals and mixing them with the general population without an isolation period. I know of
at least two outbreaks of distemper within PIN where many dogs died needlessly. No dogs would have died had
all the dogs in PIN been vaccinated for distemper before the sick dogs had arrived or if the incoming dogs had
been in isolation for two weeks before joining the general population. PIN calls itself a no-kill shelter but that
is not true—talk to the vets. They have euthanized for space.


As a member of a rescue group, I went into PIN to get a copy of a spay certificate for a dog who had been
spayed at PIN and was subsequently surrendered to us. Had I called on the phone as I had done several times
earlier, I would still be waiting. The staff had no way of finding the spay certificate except by manually going
through binders, page by page to find the name of the animal. None of the community spays had been entered
into a computer data base. Not having those records accessible electronically in this day and age is
unforgivable. After at least an hour, the certificate was found. I asked for a copy of the doctor’s notes about the
surgery. I was told that they would have to ask the doctor. I’m still waiting. What were they trying to hide by
not releasing the surgical notes?
                                                         2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/23/2018 8:15 AM



I have sat and watched with the hopes that the members of the City Council would come to realize that having
PIN take over the PAAS shelter would be a dreadful mistake both for the City and the animals it has been
serving. Residents of Palo Alto have said they want the shelter to continue but that will not continue if PIN
takes over. PAAS will become an extension of the ineptly run private business of Pets In Need.


I met a woman on the Palo Alto City Council just outside The Pet Place recently. We got to talking about
animals and she told me about the plans for PIN to take over PAAS. She said PAAS was never open on
Saturday and Sunday because they couldn’t afford to open it on the weekends. She was in total disbelief when I
told her the shelter is open every Saturday except holidays, and has been for years. She had no idea that the
shelter did the low cost vaccination clinics every Wednesday from Noon–1pm (and usually longer because so
many people came). She said PIN was the only applicant who came forward to take over the shelter [as if that
was a really good reason to turn the shelter over to a less than responsible, knowledgeable business]. If the only
applicant who came to look after your children was a homeless, drug addict who had been convicted of theft
and neglect, would it be okay to leave your children with that person? I’m sure you would say “No!” Then why
is it acceptable to turn over the care and wellbeing of the four-footed residents of Palo Alto to a less than
competent private business because they were the only ones who applied when the residents of the community
have said that they wanted the Animal Services to continue?


That same Council member told me that everyone she had spoken to had said how wonderful it would be to
have PIN running the shelter. I know there were many people who spoke at the Council meetings and with
messages on line and articles in the newspaper in 2016 and 2017 to say what a mistake turning PAAS over to
PIN would be. How can someone who is unaware of the workings of PAAS, who obviously did not attend
Council meetings or read the minutes of those meetings or read the newspaper, vote on its future? How many
other council members are misinformed about PAAS?


I have watched Jim Keene, Palo Alto city manager, work diligently for at least the past six years to close the
shelter because it “costs too much to operate.” I have watched as he collected his six-figure salary while never
putting a line item in any of the last (at least) six city budgets for upgrades and improvements to the Animal
Services facility, and very little for maintenance and salaries, or to replace staff. I have watched him come in at
successive Council meetings with larger and larger amounts the shelter was costing the City because the
previous amount didn’t sway the Council members to close the shelter. Meanwhile he brought no ideas or did
he work to find other ways to reduce costs and made no effort to work with other cities to share the costs. I have
watched as this same person accepted pay raises for himself and his staff and hand out thousands of dollars for a
mobile home park for low-income residents, the Children’s Museum and Zoo, to help fund a workforce housing
project and to remodel the City Council Chambers. I understand he found $60,000 for Pets In Need to do a
feasibility study. Those funds could have been used to get new contracts with neighboring cities and to upgrade
the shelter. PIN asked for at least $5 million from Palo Alto to renovate the shelter. Now $3 million dollars is
being set aside for affordable housing. But he couldn’t find the funds to help the shelter due to contracts that he
allowed to lapse and didn’t put any real effort into restoring them and making PAAS the shining star of the city
that it should be.


Why is a city manager who left his last two positions under the cloud of withholding and manipulating pertinent
information from the people he was serving, being allowed to force the destruction of such a valuable city

                                                         3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/23/2018 8:15 AM
service? For one of the richest cities in the Bay area, to allow this to happen is a travesty and the Council
members should be embarrassed.


Pets In Need is not up to the task of (and is frankly not interested in) providing many essential services that
Palo Alto Animal Services provides. Turning over Animal Services’ operations will likely result in many
animals being shuffled off to other agencies, euthanized or worse. And it need not be so: at least some council
members are perhaps unaware of the number and level of services offered by PAAS, of the low quality of work
done by PIN and of the possibility of contracting with neighboring cities. PAAS is a city service just like roads
and housing and I urge the Council to give it the place it deserves when prioritizing funds. It’s not too late to do
right by the animals!


Sent from my iPad




                                                          4
                                                                                       COUNCIL MEETING

                                                                                       ✔
                                                                                               08/27/2018
                                                                                           Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                                       8
Brettle, Jessica

From:                  Bridget Mckenna <bridgetofthebridge@gmail.com>
Sent:                  Monday, August 27, 2018 9:55 AM
To:                    Council, City
Subject:               A Anti- displacement ordinance


Hello my name is Bridget Duffy, journalist and political candidate. I have been chronicling an unfolding humanitarian
crisis, in regard to unreasonable, unjustifiable and inhumane rent increases and no fault evictions in San Mateo County,
currently the richest county in the U.S., and the most expensive place to rent.

It is now common that hard working, law abiding, tax payers are sleeping under bushes and living out of their cars while
property owners make unprecedented profits off of their properties, many of which were confiscated from the public
during the ‘08 financial crisis, which was entirely man made and proven to be criminal.

This is a civil rights issue now.

Public officials have been acting in defense of private property rather than defending the rights of citizens, in violation to
the oath they have taken to defend the constitution, which clearly does NOT mention any obligation to protect private
sector profits.

It is my suggestion that law makers simply do the job they signed on to do, defend the public’s right to life, liberty and
the pursuit of happiness, all of which starts with a safe, secure, place to live.

The Anti‐ displacement Act does not infringe on private property rights. It simply states that rent increases and no fault
evictions that imperil civilians lives or livelihoods, by causing displacement, will not be backed up legally by the law.
It doesn’t tell property owners what they can or can not do, it just indicates that the state will not be backing up the
landlords legally anymore ( in such cases that apply), thus stemming the tide of homelessness, a condition caused
directly by aggressions rent increases and no fault evictions.

We live at a precipice. On one side is a revived and inclusive republic. On the other side a heartless empire. Which side
are you on?
Those among us now, you and I, will determine how this story ends. Many people have died and bled for this Republic,
won’t you use the authority given to you, to please, please help us, the citizens, we are lost and dying for lack of
affordable shelter.




Sent from my iPad




                                                              1
                                                                         COUNCIL MEETING

                                                                          ✔
                                                                                   08/27/2018
                                                                              Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                        8
Brettle, Jessica

From:              Peter Brewer <peter@brewerfirm.com>
Sent:              Monday, August 27, 2018 9:58 AM
To:                Council, City
Subject:           AGAINST Just Cause Eviction and Mandatory Relocation Payments



I regret that I am out of town and unable to attend this evening’s meeting. I would like to
express my opposition to the proposed Just Cause Eviction and Mandatory Relocation
Payment ordinances. Please don’t let Palo Alto become the next Bezerkley. Nothing in our
democracy was intended to attempt to make all persons’ lifestyles and living accommodations
equal. Some people work hard, get educated, and apply themselves with vigor. Those
persons should enjoy the rewards of their hard work and ambition. The Government should
not attempt to bestow equality on those who have not contributed equally. That is no way
and nowhere the job of the Government. Peter Brewer

 Peter N. Brewer, Esq.
 Brewer Offord & Pedersen LLP
 2501 Park Blvd, 2nd Flr.
 Palo Alto, CA 94306
 (650) 327‐2900 x 12
 www.BrewerFirm.com
 BayAreaRealEstateLawyers.com
 Real Estate Law – From the Ground Up®




                                                       1
                                                                                              COUNCIL MEETING

                                                                                               ✔
                                                                                                       08/27/2018
                                                                                                   Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                                                 8
Brettle, Jessica

From:                  Pilar Lorenzana <pilar@siliconvalleyathome.org>
Sent:                  Monday, August 27, 2018 2:46 PM
To:                    Council, City
Cc:                    Lait, Jonathan; Clerk, City
Subject:               Re: Agenda Item 8: Consideration and Adoption of an Ordinance and Emergency Ordinance
Attachments:           SVH_Letter_Final.pdf


Dear Mayor Kniss, Vice Mayor Filseth, and Councilmembers DuBois, Fine, Holman, Kou, Scharff, Tanaka, and Wolbach:

We write today to urge the City Council’s support for the staff recommendation to adopt an urgency ordinance that covers
evictions and tenant relocation assistance. In addition to taking swift action to adopt an urgency ordinance this evening, we
respectfully request that the Council set the stage future conversations around the following potential strategies:

       Incorporate a grace period. The ordinance should include a meaningful grace period prior to residents’ being evicted to
        provide families ample opportunities to find commensurate housing in a severely constrained housing rental market.
       Project size threshold. We urge the Council to consider expanding applicability of the ordinance to residential
        developments of 10 units or more – a threshold reflected in ordinances in neighboring jurisdictions.
       Conversion ordinance. We urge the Council to consider adopting a conversion ordinance to define a process and
        expectations prior to the conversion of multi‐family residences from rental to ownership or from residential to non‐
        residential uses.

SV@Home is a nonprofit housing policy and advocacy organization dedicated to creating affordable housing opportunities in the
high‐cost Silicon Valley. We know that as a region we are not producing enough new homes to meet demand, and that the resulting
undersupply of housing is responsible for rising rents, displacement, and gentrification. But we also know that even as we add units,
we are losing them. Two steps forward, one step backwards.

The urgency ordinance was precipitated by the proposed conversion of the President Hotel Apartments from residential use to a
luxury boutique hotel, an action that will eliminate 75 naturally affordable homes in the heart of Palo Alto. The increased relocation
payments proposed in the ordinance are a step up from the current situation faced by the tenants. As we have heard directly from
those impacted, this conversion will cause major hardship as they seek to find affordable options in one of the most expensive
housing markets in the nation.

This is just the latest proposal to cause displacement. Palo Alto recently took action to avoid the potential loss of the Buena Vista
Mobilehome Park, which is home to 400 residents. Having policies in place to protect residents from displacement and to
adequately compensate those who eventually are displaced is critically important. Palo Alto does not have a significant source of
affordable housing. Every affordable and naturally affordable home should be protected.

We urge you to act tonight to preserve and protect vulnerable rental households and communities and we look forward to working
with you in the coming days and weeks to strengthen and improve tenant protections in the City.

Thank you for your consideration.

Sincerely,


Pilar Lorenzana
Deputy Director
pilar@siliconvalleyathome.org
(510) 255-1253

sv@home
                                                                   1
350 W Julian St. #5, San Jose, CA 95110
Website I Facebook I Twitter I LinkedIn I Become a Member!




                                                        2
                                      TRANSMITTED VIA EMAIL
             Board of Directors
                                      August 27, 2018
             Ron Gonzales, Chair
             Hispanic Foundation
                 of Silicon Valley    Honorable Mayor Kniss and Members of the City Council
         Janice Jensen, Vice Chair
                                      City of Palo Alto
            Habitat for Humanity      250 Hamilton Avenue
           East Bay/Silicon Valley    Palo Alto, CA 94301
          Kevin Zwick, Treasurer
      Housing Trust Silicon Valley

   Kathy Thibodeaux, Secretary        Dear Mayor Kniss, Vice Mayor Filseth, and Councilmembers DuBois, Fine, Holman, Kou,
  KM Thibodeaux Consulting LLC        Scharff, Tanaka, and Wolbach:
                     Shiloh Ballard
   Silicon Valley Bicycle Coalition      Re: Agenda Item 8: Consideration and Adoption of an Ordinance and Emergency
               Bob Brownstein                                              Ordinance
      Working Partnerships USA

                    Christine Carr    We write today to urge the City Council’s support for the staff recommendation to
                                      adopt an urgency ordinance that covers evictions and tenant relocation assistance. In
                      Katie Ferrick
                         LinkedIn     addition to taking swift action to adopt an urgency ordinance this evening, we
                                      respectfully request that the Council set the stage future conversations around the
                   Amie Fishman
Non-Profit Housing Association of     following potential strategies:
             Northern California

                  Javier Gonzalez
                                          •   Incorporate a grace period. The ordinance should include a meaningful grace
                          Google              period prior to residents’ being evicted to provide families ample opportunities
                Poncho Guevara
                                              to find commensurate housing in a severely constrained housing rental market.
 Sacred Heart Community Service           •   Project size threshold. We urge the Council to consider expanding applicability
                  Jan Lindenthal              of the ordinance to residential developments of 10 units or more – a threshold
                 MidPen Housing               reflected in ordinances in neighboring jurisdictions.
                 Jennifer Loving          •   Conversion ordinance. We urge the Council to consider adopting a conversion
              Destination: Home               ordinance to define a process and expectations prior to the conversion of
                   Mary Murtagh
                                              multi-family residences from rental to ownership or from residential to non-
                    EAH Housing               residential uses.
                    Chris Neale
            The Core Companies        SV@Home is a nonprofit housing policy and advocacy organization dedicated to
                  Andrea Osgood
                                      creating affordable housing opportunities in the high-cost Silicon Valley. We know that
                   Eden Housing       as a region we are not producing enough new homes to meet demand, and that the
                     Kelly Snider
                                      resulting undersupply of housing is responsible for rising rents, displacement, and
          Kelly Snider Consulting     gentrification. But we also know that even as we add units, we are losing them. Two
                                      steps forward, one step backwards.
              Jennifer Van Every
            The Van Every Group
                                      The urgency ordinance was precipitated by the proposed conversion of the President
                             Staff
                                      Hotel Apartments from residential use to a luxury boutique hotel, an action that will
                 Leslye Corsiglia     eliminate 75 naturally affordable homes in the heart of Palo Alto. The increased
               Executive Director     relocation payments proposed in the ordinance are a step up from the current situation
                                      faced by the tenants. As we have heard directly from those impacted, this conversion


                                                                                  350 W. Julian Street, Building 5, San José, CA 95110
                                                                  408.780.2261 • www.svathome.org • info@siliconvalleyathome.org
Honorable Mayor Kniss and Members of the City Council
August 27, 2018
Re: Ordinance and Emergency Ordinance for Relocation Assistance for No-Fault Evictions
Page 2 of 2

    will cause major hardship as they seek to find affordable options in one of the most expensive housing
    markets in the nation.

    This is just the latest proposal to cause displacement. Palo Alto recently took action to avoid the
    potential loss of the Buena Vista Mobilehome Park, which is home to 400 residents. Having policies in
    place to protect residents from displacement and to adequately compensate those who eventually are
    displaced is critically important. Palo Alto does not have a significant source of affordable housing.
    Every affordable and naturally affordable home should be protected.

    We urge you to act tonight to preserve and protect vulnerable rental households and communities and
    we look forward to working with you in the coming days and weeks to strengthen and improve tenant
    protections in the City.

    Thank you for your consideration.




    Sincerely,




    Pilar Lorenzana
    Deputy Director




                                                                   350 W. Julian Street, Building 5, San José, CA 95110
                                                   408.780.2261 • www.svathome.org • info@siliconvalleyathome.org
                                                                                  COUNCIL MEETING

                                                                                   ✔
                                                                                           08/27/2018
                                                                                       Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                                  8
Brettle, Jessica

From:                Liza Vernazza <liza@lizavernazza.com>
Sent:                Monday, August 27, 2018 1:32 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Emergency Ordinance


Dear Council Members,
It has been brought to my attention that you will be voting on an Emergency Ordinance Amending Chapter 9.68 of the
Municipal Code to Require, for Multifamily Housing Developments of 50 Units or More: Relocation Assistance for No‐
Fault Evictions or Cause for Eviction and Relocation Assistance for No‐Fault Evictions.
As a property owner, investor and an advocate for my investor clients, I would like to urge you to vote NO on this
Ordinance. I believe the relocation assistance for No‐Fault Evictions is excessive and will invite abuse by the tenant
communities. It’s a shame when a landlord cannot effectively evict a tenant who has proven to consistently not pay rent
in a timely fashion, not allow the landlord access to the unit and has proven to be a nuisance to the other tenants. And
now the landlord will have to pay them to move out. That is just not right.

Thank you for your attention to this matter. I agree that housing is a serious issue in our community, however, rent
control and excessive relocation assistance is not the answer.
With all the smart people we are surrounded with, I am certain a solution will present itself, but this is not it.

Regards,
Liza


/L]D9HUQD]]D
.HOOHU: LOOLDP V%D\$ UHD/LYLQJ

(O&DP LQR5HDO
6DQ&DUORV&$ 
&DO%UH
/L]D#/L]DYHUQD]]DFRP 
Z Z Z /L]DYHUQD]]DFRP 

Selling Fine Peninsula Homes Since 1988

Click here to see what my clients are saying...




                                                            1
                                                                                     COUNCIL MEETING
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 3:09 PM
                                                                                      ✔
                                                                                              08/20/2018
                                                                                          Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                                      8
Carnahan, David

From:                              Roberta Ahlquist <roberta.ahlquist@sjsu.edu>
Sent:                              Monday, August 20, 2018 2:21 PM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           Save the existing rental housing at the President Hotel


Dear City Councilmembers:




It's been two months now since the Hotel President building was sold. WHAT ROLE IS THE CITY GOING TO TAKE TO
HELP THE TENANTS REMAIN IN THEIR HOMES? There are viable solutions: Pass an interim urgency ordinance. Allow
tenants to stay at the same rents until they move out. Place an emergency moratorium on the demotion or removal of
rental housing until replacement housing is available at the same rents. This is a fair,just way to address the issue.

 This is an urgent issue. :You can help these tenants stay in their homes. Be creative in finding solutions. What role might
the PA Housing Corporation play?




Now is the time to act!




Sincerely,




Roberta Ahlquist, Women's International League for Peace & Freedom Low-Income Housing

Committee




                                                              1
                                                                                    COUNCIL MEETING

                                                                                    ✔
                                                                                            08/27/2018
                                                                                        Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                                    8
Brettle, Jessica

From:                Colette Harp <harpathome@gmail.com>
Sent:                Monday, August 27, 2018 12:58 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Emergency Relocation Payments


To Palo Alto City Council

I'm not sure why this would be the responsibility of landlords...most of us have paid for our buildings, taxes, repairs,
everything a home owner has to do....and we've paid for 30 years. I have great sympathy for tenants and have had the
same tenants for over 20 yrs, and now the daughter who was raised in the back unit lives in our front unit. So we have a
very good record with tenants and I'm wondering how this would affect us moving forward. We don't allow pets, but
our newest tenant decided because she knows us so well, without our consent proceeded to get a dog. It's in the
original lease no pets, but that lease was over after a year, so if we decided to ask her to leave for just cause would she
be our responsibility from here on out? Maybe someone could get back to me on that....I'd appreciate some reasonable
input to this question if it's not too much trouble. As landlords we are now very concerned about the outcome of these
meetings that different counties are having and what affect it may have on us in the future.

Thanks for your consideration

Sincerely

Colette Harp




                                                             1
                                                                                COUNCIL MEETING

                                                                                ✔
                                                                                        08/27/2018
                                                                                    Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                              8
Brettle, Jessica

From:              Rushton, Jeremy <Jeremy.Rushton@cbnorcal.com>
Sent:              Monday, August 27, 2018 12:37 PM
To:                Council, City
Subject:           Emergency Relocation Payments



Dear Council members,

Hopefully this message finds you all well. I'd like to take this opportunity to voice my opposition to the rental
regulations that are to be disused tonight. It is a gross overreach of government to tell a property owner they
don't have the right exercise the expiration of a lease that was voluntarily signed by adults.

Leasing regulations such as these make the housing crisis worse. Rent control/eviction regulations simply
create more competition for new vacancies and thus mean higher prices. There isn't a single example of a rent
controlled California city with an equitable rental market. Whenever a local government adopts additional
leasing regulations, it gives owners more incentive to discriminate against tenant profiles who most would
assume intend to stay put longer than a year or so. (such as families)

Living in Palo Alto is not a right, but owning property is. Please don't take it upon yourselves to put a damaging
Band‐Aid on a broad issue like housing affordability. The evidence of failure is right in front of us all. Feelings
are not the foundation for good policy. You'll see tonight that feelings is all the tenant activists have to offer.

Best regards,

Jeremy Rushton

*Wire Fraud is Real*. Before wiring any money, call the intended recipient at a number you know is valid to
confirm the instructions. Additionally, please note that the sender does not have authority to bind a party to a
real estate contract via written or verbal communication.




                                                         1
                                                                                COUNCIL MEETING

                                                                                ✔
                                                                                         08/27/2018
                                                                                    Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                              8
Brettle, Jessica

From:              Larry and April Alton <lalton@pacbell.net>
Sent:              Monday, August 27, 2018 11:53 AM
To:                Council, City
Subject:           evictions and mandatory relocation payments for no-fault evictions.



Dear Mayor Scharff and Members of the City Council,

I urge you to reject staff’s recommended proposal to enact just cause evictions and mandatory
relocation payments for no-fault evictions.

As a local housing provider, I value the opportunity to provide safe, stable, and reliable housing for
Palo Alto residents. I address my residents’ concerns timely and remain responsive to their needs.

Please avoid creating legal hurdles or administrative burdens on property owners who are not
causing mass displacements.

Sincerely,

Larry Alton




                                                          1
                                                                    COUNCIL MEETING

                                                                     ✔
                                                                             08/27/2018
                                                                         Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                   8
Brettle, Jessica

From:              G.K. Young <ypmanagement@outlook.com>
Sent:              Monday, August 27, 2018 9:20 AM
To:                Council, City
Cc:                G.K. Young
Subject:           RE: JUST CAUSE EVICTION ORDINANCES AND RELOCATION PAYMENTS



Dear Mayor Kniss and Members of the City Council,

I urge you to reject the staff’s recommended proposal to enact just cause evictions and
mandatory relocation payments for no-fault evictions.

As a local housing provider, I value the opportunity to provide safe, stable, and reliable
housing for Palo Alto residents. I address my residents’ concerns timely and remain
responsive to their needs.

I am grateful that the council rejected rent control and just cause eviction at its meeting in
October 2017. However, I am concerned that the current proposal you are considering
Monday night will have similar consequences as enacting rent control and just cause
eviction.

If the City Council wants to protect residents displaced from large redevelopment or
renovations, the ordinances before you do not specifically reach that goal.

Please avoid creating legal hurdles or administrative burdens on property owners who are
not causing mass displacements.

I recommend the city work with local housing providers to explore a more balanced and
targeted approach.

Sincerely,

Gordon K Young, CCRM

YP MANAGEMENT
PO BOX 50846
PALO ALTO, CA 94303‐0670
650/740‐2624




                                                  1
                                                                                  COUNCIL MEETING
                                                                                           08/27/2018
                                                                                       Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                                  8
Brettle, Jessica
                                                                                   ✔




From:                Claire Carew <clairecarew@yahoo.com>
Sent:                Saturday, August 25, 2018 4:15 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Just Cause Eviction Ordinances and Relocation Payments - REJECT THIS PROPOSAL


Dear Mayor Scharff and Members of the City Council,

I urge you to reject staff’s recommended proposal to enact just cause evictions and mandatory relocation payments for
no‐fault evictions.

The council rejected rent control and just cause eviction at its meeting in October 2017; however, the proposal you are
considering on Monday, August 27, 2018, will have consequences similar to enacting rent control and just cause
eviction. If the City Council wants to protect residents displaced from large redevelopment or renovations, the
ordinances before you do not specifically reach that goal.

Please avoid creating legal hurdles or administrative burdens on property owners who are not causing mass
displacements. Instead, the city and local housing providers should work together to explore a more balanced and
targeted approach.

Sincerely,

Claire Carew
1606 Edgewood Dr.
Palo Alto CA 94303




                                                            1
                                                                                 COUNCIL MEETING

                                                                                  ✔
                                                                                          08/27/2018
                                                                                      Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                                 8
Brettle, Jessica

From:                 Keller, Jeff <jeff@jkeller.com>
Sent:                 Monday, August 27, 2018 9:59 AM
To:                   Council, City
Subject:              JUST CAUSE EVICTION


Dear Sirs:

Please do not pass the "Just Cause Eviction" regulation. The housing shortage is caused by the imbalance between jobs
and housing. It is not caused by individual property owners.

The "Just Cause Eviction" regulation will make housing more expensive for those least able to afford it ... renters. The
regulation does not encourage more rental properties. It discourages investment in rental properties.

The "Just Cause Eviction" passes on the cost of a government policy to individuals who are already helping to provide
more housing through their investments. This policy is akin to trying to reduce the cost of food by taxing grocery stores.

Please stop the "Just Cause Eviction" regulations.

Jeff Keller
2075 Louis Rd
Palo Alto, CA 94303




                                                             1
                                                                       COUNCIL MEETING

                                                                        ✔
                                                                                08/27/2018
                                                                            Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                      8
Brettle, Jessica

From:              Beverly Brockway <bev@bbrockway.com>
Sent:              Sunday, August 26, 2018 9:56 PM
To:                Council, City
Subject:           Just Cause Evictions



Dear Mayor Scharff and Members of the City Council,

I urge you to reject staff’s recommended proposal to enact just cause evictions and mandatory
relocation payments for no-fault evictions.

As a local housing provider, I value the opportunity to provide safe, stable, and reliable housing for
Palo Alto residents. I address my residents’ concerns timely and remain responsive to their needs.

I am grateful that the council rejected rent control and just cause eviction at its meeting in October
2017. However, I am concerned that the current proposal you are considering Monday night will have
similar consequences as enacting rent control and just cause eviction.

If the City Council’s wants to protect residents displaced from large redevelopment or renovations, the
ordinances before you do not specifically reach that goal.

Please avoid creating legal hurdles or administrative burdens on property owners who are not
causing mass displacements.

We recommend the city to work with local housing providers to explore a more balanced and targeted
approach.

Sincerely,

Beverly Brockway
Robert Healy
1140 Hamilton
Palo Alto, CA




                                                    1
                                                                                 COUNCIL MEETING
                                                                                          08/27/2018
                                                                                      Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                                  8
Brettle, Jessica
                                                                                  ✔




From:               Jim Massey <jimmasters8@gmail.com>
Sent:               Monday, August 27, 2018 1:24 PM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            Just cause on agenda


I urge you to hold off on this item until more review and study is done. Do not do a Ready, Fire, Aim Thank you




                                                           1
                                                                                    COUNCIL MEETING

                                                                                     ✔
                                                                                             08/27/2018
                                                                                         Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                                     8
Brettle, Jessica

From:                Ken <lowdown1@comcast.net>
Sent:                Friday, August 24, 2018 8:17 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             just cause evictions


I urge you to not past the emergency eviction bill that was inappropriately drafted behind closed doors. I am familiar
with the results on small landlords in SF and it has stiffed the small guy. What is the rational and cause behind such a
proposal? why was it done behind closed doors?

Thank you for your consideration




                                                             1
                                                                                  COUNCIL MEETING
                                                                                           08/27/2018
                                                                                       Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                                  8
Brettle, Jessica
                                                                                   ✔




From:                 pmcrent@aol.com
Sent:                 Monday, August 27, 2018 2:35 PM
To:                   Council, City
Subject:              Just cause/Manditory relocation on agenda


Please do not implement the Just cause/ relocation policy without public discussion and study and resident's input. A
knee jerk reaction in setting policy without proper public input is not productive.

Paul McCarthy
3265 Kipling Street
Palo Alto, Ca




                                                            1
                                                                          COUNCIL MEETING

                                                                           ✔
                                                                                   08/27/2018
                                                                               Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                         8
Brettle, Jessica

From:              Jim King <1988rth@gmail.com>
Sent:              Sunday, August 26, 2018 11:34 PM
To:                Council, City
Subject:           Palo Alto City Council Considers Just Cause Eviction Ordinances and Relocation Payments



Dear Mayor Scharff and Members of the City Council,

I urge you to reject staff’s recommended proposal to enact just cause evictions and mandatory
relocation payments for no-fault evictions.

As a local housing provider, I value the opportunity to provide safe, stable, and reliable housing for
Palo Alto residents. I address my residents’ concerns timely and remain responsive to their needs.

I am grateful that the council rejected rent control and just cause eviction at its meeting in October
2017. However, I am concerned that the current proposal you are considering Monday night will have
similar consequences as enacting rent control and just cause eviction.

If the City Council’s wants to protect residents displaced from large redevelopment or renovations, the
ordinances before you do not specifically reach that goal.

Please avoid creating legal hurdles or administrative burdens on property owners who are not
causing mass displacements.

We recommend the city to work with local housing providers to explore a more balanced and targeted
approach.

Sincerely,

David Wasserstein




                                                         1
                                                                             COUNCIL MEETING
                                                                                     08/27/2018
                                                                                 Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                             8
Brettle, Jessica
                                                                             ✔




From:              Jimmy Lee <jilee2552@gmail.com>
Sent:              Sunday, August 26, 2018 11:28 PM
To:                Council, City
Subject:           Palo Alto City Council Considers Just Cause Eviction Ordinances and Relocation Payments



Dear Mayor Scharff and Members of the City Council,

I urge you to reject staff’s recommended proposal to enact just cause evictions and mandatory
relocation payments for no-fault evictions.

As a local housing provider, I value the opportunity to provide safe, stable, and reliable housing for
Palo Alto residents. I address my residents’ concerns timely and remain responsive to their needs.

I am grateful that the council rejected rent control and just cause eviction at its meeting in October
2017. However, I am concerned that the current proposal you are considering Monday night will have
similar consequences as enacting rent control and just cause eviction.

If the City Council’s wants to protect residents displaced from large redevelopment or renovations, the
ordinances before you do not specifically reach that goal.

Please avoid creating legal hurdles or administrative burdens on property owners who are not
causing mass displacements.

We recommend the city to work with local housing providers to explore a more balanced and targeted
approach.

Sincerely,

Jimmy Lee




                                                         1
                                                                              COUNCIL MEETING

                                                                              ✔
                                                                                      08/27/2018
                                                                                  Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                               8
Brettle, Jessica

From:              Betty Schink <bettys@sbcglobal.net>
Sent:              Saturday, August 25, 2018 11:18 AM
To:                Council, City
Subject:           Proposal regarding just cause evictions and mandatory relocation payments


Dear Mayor Scharff and Members of the City Council,

I urge you to reject staff’s recommended proposal to enact just cause evictions and mandatory relocation
payments for no-fault evictions.

As a local housing provider, I value the opportunity to provide safe, stable, and reliable housing for Palo Alto
residents. I address my residents’ concerns timely and remain responsive to their needs.

I am grateful that the council rejected rent control and just cause eviction at its meeting in October 2017.
However, I am concerned that the current proposal you are considering Monday night will have similar
consequences as enacting rent control and just cause eviction.

If the City Council’s wants to protect residents displaced from large redevelopment or renovations, the
ordinances before you do not specifically reach that goal.

Please avoid creating legal hurdles or administrative burdens on property owners who are not causing mass
displacements.

We recommend the city to work with local housing providers to explore a more balanced and targeted
approach.

Sincerely,

Betty Schink
620 Sand Hill Road
Palo Alto




                                                         1
                                                                                  COUNCIL MEETING

                                                                                   ✔
                                                                                           08/27/2018
                                                                                       Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                                 8
Brettle, Jessica

From:               JEFFREY RODGERS <jeffreyalanrodgers@gmail.com>
Sent:               Sunday, August 26, 2018 8:19 AM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            Re: Just cause evictions




           Dear Mayor Scharff and Members of the City Council,

           We urge you to reject staff’s recommended proposal to enact just cause evictions and
           mandatory relocation payments for no‐fault evictions.

           As local housing providers, we value the opportunity to provide safe, stable, and reliable housing
           for Palo Alto residents. We address our residents’ concerns timely and remain responsive to their
           needs.

           We are grateful that the council rejected rent control and just cause eviction at its meeting in
           October 2017. However, we are concerned that the current proposal you are considering
           Monday night will have similar consequences as enacting rent control and just cause eviction.

           If the City Council’s wants to protect residents displaced from large redevelopment or
           renovations, the ordinances before you do not specifically reach that goal.

           Please avoid creating legal hurdles or administrative burdens on property owners who are not
           causing mass displacements.

           We recommend the city to work with local housing providers to explore a more balanced and
           targeted approach.

           Sincerely,

           Janna & Jeffrey Rodgers
           Property owners on University Ave.




Jeffrey A. Rodgers
Executive Managing Director
CA RE License #00942763



Newmark Cornish & Carey 2804 Mission College Blvd, Suite 120 Santa Clara, CA 95054
D 408.987.4143 F 408.988.6340 jrodgers@ngkf.com Profile




                                                            1
                                                                                  COUNCIL MEETING

                                                                                   ✔
                                                                                           08/27/2018
                                                                                       Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                                 8
Brettle, Jessica

From:                Anna Sklovsky <asklovsky@yahoo.com>
Sent:                Saturday, August 25, 2018 10:10 AM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Reject proposal to enact just cause evictions and mandatory relocation payments




Dear Mayor Scharff and Members of the City Council,

I urge you to reject staff’s recommended proposal to enact just cause evictions and mandatory
relocation payments for no-fault evictions.

As a local housing provider, I value the opportunity to provide safe, stable, and reliable housing for
Palo Alto residents. I address my residents’ concerns timely and remain responsive to their needs.

I am grateful that the council rejected rent control and just cause eviction at its meeting in October
2017. However, I am concerned that the current proposal you are considering Monday night will have
similar consequences as enacting rent control and just cause eviction.

If the City Council’s wants to protect residents displaced from large redevelopment or renovations, the
ordinances before you do not specifically reach that goal.

Please avoid creating legal hurdles or administrative burdens on property owners who are not
causing mass displacements.

We recommend the city to work with local housing providers to explore a more balanced and targeted
approach.

Sincerely,


Anna Sklovsky



“Welcome those big, sticky, complicated problems. In them are your most powerful opportunities.”
Ralph Marston




                                                            1
                                                                                  COUNCIL MEETING
                                                                                          08/27/2018
                                                                                      Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                                    8
Brettle, Jessica
                                                                                  ✔




From:              Jennifer Liu <jenliu_01@yahoo.com>
Sent:              Saturday, August 25, 2018 12:00 AM
To:                Council, City; DuBois, Tom; Filseth, Eric (Internal); Fine, Adrian; Holman, Karen; Kniss, Liz (internal);
                   Kou, Lydia; Scharff, Gregory (internal); Tanaka, Greg; Wolbach, Cory
Subject:           Say NO to Just Cause Eviction and Relocation Assistance!



Dear Council member,

I'm very shocked to know that Palo Alto is proposing to start Just Cause Eviction (JCE) and force
landlords to pay Relocation Assistance for some apartments. I am against any form of Rent Control,
including JCE.

1) JCE will make it almost impossible to evict problematic tenants, because it is extremely hard for
landlords to prove in court that the tenants had done unlawful things, or had violated the lease. The
end result is that bad tenants stay, and good tenants leave, and our neighborhood gets worse. In
Bay Area, the cities with long JCE history are the ones with high crime rates: East Palo Alto, Oakland,
San Francisco, Berkeley, etc.

2) JCE is the prelude for Rent Control. The two almost always come together, and is a violation of
property rights. Last year, the city council has already rejected Rent Control. We should also reject
JCE!

3) JCE and Relocation Assistance is unfair to landlords, and make it hard to do business in Palo
Alto.

To keep Palo Alto to be a safe and business friendly city, please vote NO to Just Cause Eviction.

Thank you,

Jennifer Liu, a Palo Alto resident and voter




                                                             1
                                                                                   COUNCIL MEETING

                                                                                    ✔
                                                                                            08/27/2018
                                                                                        Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                                    8
Brettle, Jessica

From:                Manuel Grech <mandlgrech@yahoo.com>
Sent:                Monday, August 27, 2018 12:45 PM
To:                  Council, City


Dear council member

We are writing this letter to let you know how we feel about the tenant protection measure being considered for
renters

We are retired and on a fixed income , our monthly social security does not even come close to able us to stay in our
home if it were not for our long term planning and hard work to purchase our rental property over twenty years ago we
would have to move out.

We understand and empathize with renters in our city but we also feel that having mom and pop landlords pay for rent
and relocation services is not fair and puts undue hardship on people like us who depend on our rental property for a
decent living.

The rental problems are a county and statewide problem that can't be solved by singling out a group of people who did
not create the problem in the first place, if the city wants to help renters by rent control or relocation expenses then it
should be done by a tax on everyone including commercial properties since they are severely under charged because of
prop 13 which allows them to keep the low tax rates even when properties are turned over to new owners.

Please consider the hardship you will cause small rental property owners before you act.

Thank You
Manuel & Leslie Grech
San Mateo Ca,




                                                             1
                                                                              COUNCIL MEETING

                                                                              ✔
                                                                                      08/27/2018
                                                                                  Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                            8
Brettle, Jessica

From:               Katrina Edwards <katrina@triumphps.com>
Sent:               Monday, August 27, 2018 10:43 AM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            VOTE NO Just Cause Eviction & Relocation Payments


Please do NOT vote to put these measures in place. You’re going to hurt a lot of long time residents who are “mom and
pop” landlords by limiting what they can do with THEIR properties. Just because one large entity might not be playing
fair, doesn’t mean you should punish everyone. Please vote no.

Talk soon!

Katrina Edwards
Triumph Property Services
Cell: 650‐380‐2180
Fax: 650‐813‐9413
BRE 01161252

www.TriumphPS.com

My goal is to help you meet your goals! Who do you know who needs my help right now?

New office address as of 9/1/2014:
530 Lytton Ave, 2nd Floor
Palo Alto, CA 94301

Reception hours: Monday through Friday, 9am to 5pm
Appointments recommended




                                                          1
                                                                              COUNCIL MEETING
                                                                                                              10
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/20/2018 8:16 AM
                                                                                       08/27/2018
                                                                               ✔
                                                                                   Received Before Meeting
Carnahan, David

From:                           Virginia Smedberg <virgviolin@hotmail.com>
Sent:                           Sunday, August 19, 2018 10:38 PM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        ADU's



Dear Palo Alto City Council Members:

I have not read all of the information, so I am simply putting forth to you a perspective about the idea of
ADUs, from my own life.

1) infilling is a more efficient way of utilizing our space and facilities, especially transportation.
2) allowing an ADU could permit another family member ‐ in this case I am a Great Aunt ‐ to live in close
proximity to family but still have some personal space.
In my case, I am fortunate to have a home with a separate enough bedroom and bath, and family with enough
tolerance of my presence, and different enough living schedules (kitchen dances), so that I can live in the same
space as my niece and her family. But not all homes, or family dynamics, would allow that.
3) allowing ADUs could potentially allow local teachers, firefighters and other community workers to actually
live in the community whose work they do.
In my case, since my niece is a teacher in PAUSD, I feel fortunate that she and her family can live here with me,
and bike or walk to work.

So those are my perspectives. I hope you will consider them.

Sincerely,

Virginia Smedberg
441 Washington Ave
Palo Alto 94301




                                                        1
                                                                  COUNCIL MEETING
                                                                          08/27/2018            10
                                                                  ✔
                                                                      Received Before Meeting
Brettle, Jessica

From:                  Sheri Furman <sheri11@earthlink.net>
Sent:                  Sunday, August 26, 2018 11:00 PM
To:                    Council, City
Subject:               Aug 27 Council Meeting re Agenda Item 10
Attachments:           ADU Updates Aug 26 2018.docx


Please see attached.




                                                           1
Agenda Item 10 Regarding Accessory and Junior Accessory Dwelling Units (ADU/JADU)
                                                                                                   August 26, 2018

Dear City Council Members,

On behalf of Palo Alto Neighborhoods (PAN), we write to you to express our support and concerns over the
several proposed changes to the ADU Ordinance that was originally passed by Council in 2017.

Although we agree that the ADU Ordinance has some merits, we believe there was no need to relax regulations
in the original ordinance beyond those required by state mandates. By reaching beyond state mandates, we
lose the opportunity to assess how the state mandated ADU process is working for Palo Alto. By exceeding the
state mandate, we do not allow ourselves room for course correction in case the city’s ordinance exceeds what
is prudent at this time.

Why are we concerned?

Last year, the public was blindsided when Councilmembers made a motion incorporating multiple concessions
and provisions when adopting the ADU ordinance without advance public discussion or notice of these
concessions and provisions. This perhaps was an oversight, or it could have been the plan all along to surprise
the public with enacting an ADU ordinance that went well beyond the bounds of what had been proposed. The
Council should refrain from a similar travesty of the public process this time around. Please do not surprise
residents with any last-minute motions relaxing ADU standards even further.

We continue to believe that having only 6 feet setbacks along the back and side yard property lines are
problematic and should be increased, especially when allowing detached ADUs to have a height of 17 feet.
Privacy and shade concerns are an issue when neighbors confront a 17-foot monolith overshadowing their
home or garden.

We support the proposal to “reduce the height limits for detached ADU’s within identified Eichler tracts”.
It makes sense in these special Eichler neighborhoods, that ADU’s should conform to those heights that are
similar to those on the same property. To allow ADU heights beyond the main residence would destroy the
neighborhood character and damage the sense of openness and privacy enjoyed by residents in these tracts.
In fact, this limit should be applied to all detached ADUs. As they can only be one-story, there is no need for
them to be 17 feet high. On smaller 5000-6000 square foot lots in particular, this is an intrusive presence when
set only 6 feet from a fence, even with daylight plane rules. The 17-foot height also allows for illegal conversion
to add loft space.

We do support both the staff report and the PTC’s recommendation that “no basements should be allowed in
the rear yard setbacks.” Allowing basements in these areas would endanger our future groundwater sources,
our precious trees and other important fauna and vegetation that are habitats for local species in our area. We
are concerned with effects of construction on trees on adjoining properties and request that protection of
neighboring trees be part of the ADU ordinance.

We also encourage you to retain the limitation of a maximum of 50% rear yard coverage. Additional impervious
cover increases runoff, increases the “heat island” effect, and increases demands on our aging storm drain
system.

Because the prohibition of expanded curb cuts is ineffective in those neighborhoods with rolled curbs, a
prohibition of expansion of parking beyond supporting two vehicles side by side should apply. Furthermore, we
encourage you to limit the issuance of Residential Parking Program permits to the number available to the
primary residence, to be effective when the RPP software enables that regulation.

Sincerely,

Becky Sanders
Sheri Furman
PAN Co-chairs
                                                                         COUNCIL MEETING
                                                                                 08/27/2018            10
                                                                         ✔
                                                                             Received Before Meeting
Brettle, Jessica

From:              Christine Czarnecki <czarnecki@sbcglobal.net>
Sent:              Monday, August 27, 2018 12:10 PM
To:                Council, City
Subject:           Making the building of ADUs affordable in Palo Alto



To the members of the Palo Alto City Council:

In your meeting tonight and in your deliberations to come, please consider a significant reduction in the
fees charged by the Palo Alto Planning Department required to build an ADU here.

A year ago, I took our house plans to the planning office to discuss the possibility of building an ADU in
our existing carport area. Since our house was built in 2001 and its square footage maxed out for the lot,
I wanted to make sure this would work and find out the costs. Since we are fully built out, we can only
build an ADU of a maximum size of 175 sq. ft., and I am glad of it, but when I got estimates of what the
different city fees would be in order to actually build, the total came to nearly $15,000. I find this a
staggering amount, but was told that the fees assessed would be just the same as if we were proposing to
build a new 6,000 square foot home in Palo Alto.

Please consider a drastic cut in these fees. How can a homeowner pay nearly $86 per square foot in
city fees for a tiny ADU, before paying an architect for the design and not including one penny of the cost
of labor and materials to actually build it?

Thank you for your consideration.

Christine Czarnecki




                                                         1
                                                                         COUNCIL MEETING
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/23/2018 2:58 PM
                                                                         ✔
                                                                                 08/27/2018
                                                                             Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                         3 4
Carnahan, David

From:                            Ng, Judy
Sent:                            Thursday, August 23, 2018 2:56 PM
To:                              Council Members; Council Agenda Email; ORG - Clerk's Office
Cc:                              Keene, James; Shikada, Ed; De Geus, Robert; Flaherty, Michelle; Minor, Beth; Eggleston,
                                 Brad; Bobel, Phil; Swanson, Andrew; Magliocco, Gina; Wadleigh, James; Rupert, Hillary;
                                 Luong, Christine
Subject:                         8/27 Council Agenda Questions for Items 3 & 4
Attachments:                     Item 3 - Attachment F of CMR 9439.pdf; Item 4 -Screenshot - Initial In-Kind
                                 Projections .png




 Dear Mayor and Council Members:

 On behalf of City Manager Jim Keene, please find below in bold staff responses to inquiries
 made by Council Member Tanaka in regard to the August 27, 2018 council meeting agenda.

 Item 3: Approval of Airport Contracts & Budget Amendments – CM Tanaka

 Item 4: Approve 3 Vendor Contracts for Mobility on Demand FTA Grant – CM Tanaka


 Item 3: Approval of Airport Contracts & Budget Amendments – CM Tanaka

        Q. 1. Where will the minor expansion of facilities be? Is there a map of where the
        work will be done and where the expansion will happen? Are there any other
        animals besides owls that could be impacted?

        A. 1. The apron reconstruction project is a multi‐phased project. The minor
        expansion occurred in Phase I which was completed Summer 2018 (CMR 8127). All
        phases of the apron reconstruction work are represented in Attachment F of CMR
        9439 (attached to email), however, to answer the specific question, the
        attachment shows a hash‐marked area for the minor expansion. A habitat
        assessment was conducted as well as pre‐construction surveys and no special
        status species were observed in the area of the minor expansion.

        Q. 2. Why can’t the airport fund start to repay the general fund in FY2018? How
        long will it take for the airport fund to fully repay the general fund?

        A. 2. As part of the FY 2019 Adopted Budget, Council approved deferring the
        payment of the general fund loan in order to fund the 10% match requirement to
        be eligible to receive FAA grant funds to pay for 90% of Phase II of the Apron
        Reconstruction project. This multi‐phase project was recognized as an important
        safety‐related maintenance and modernization project which meets FAA design
        standards that corrects deficiencies and increases overall airport safety (CMR
                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/23/2018 2:58 PM
        8127). Council also approved funding to complete an Airport Business Plan as part
        of the FY 2019 Adopted Budget, and a contract award for this Plan is scheduled for
        later this Fall. The goal of this plan, in conjunction with a detailed facilities
        assessment study, will be to evaluate existing facility repairs and safety needs;
        establish business guidelines and strategies to allow the Airport to become a self‐
        sustaining enterprise fund; and inform future operations and investments,
        including but not limited to repayment of the outstanding General Fund loan.
        Once the Airport Business Plan is complete, staff will be able to inform Council on
        the timeline for full repayment of the loan.

        Q. 3. Has DeSilva Gates Construction LP done any work for the City of Palo Alto in
        the past? If not, has the city obtained any testimonials of their work?

        A. 3. DeSilva Gates Construction was awarded and recently completed the
        construction contract for Phase I of the apron reconstruction project (See CMR
        8127).

        Q. 4. What are the contingencies to get the FAA grant to pay for 90% of the total
        project? Currently, it seems as if the FAA grant is paying about 40% of the project.
        Why doesn’t the grant cover a higher percentage?

        A. 4. Work must meet FAA Airport Improvement Program eligibility
        requirements. All work within Phase II of the apron reconstruction project, except
        Alternates 9 & 10, meet funding eligibility requirements and are eligible for 90%
        reimbursement. With the exception of Alternates 9 & 10 totaling $595,183
        ($536,080 funded by the Wastewater Treatment Fund Capital Improvement
        Program and $59,103 funded by Airport Enterprise Fund), Phase II with 15%
        contingency is $14,216,415. $13,621,232 is eligible for 90% reimbursement or a
        total of $12,259,109.



 Item 4: Approve 3 Vendor Contracts for Mobility on Demand FTA Grant – CM Tanaka

        Q. 1. How is the feebate going to work?

        A. 1. Feebate is a two‐sided concept, where there is a fee and a rebate. A
        “feebate” system will simultaneously assess fees for Single Occupancy Vehicle
        (SOV) use (assigning a “fair value”) and redirect the income received to fund
        incentives for use of alternative transportation modes, creating a self‐sustaining
        commute program. While the feebate might be desirable for other pilot programs
        it may not be the best strategy for the City of Palo Alto pilot. Alternatively, the
        City of Palo Alto is exploring a “cashout” program where an incentive is paid to
        employees participating in the pilot who are non‐SOV. There are different forms
        of incentives; most commonly taxable cash and/or tax‐free transit passes. The
        “fee” part is the innovative mechanism used to generate income to sustain the
        cash out. While a pure cashout program would not address the “fee” part, it is
        highly likely that a cashout program would generate measurable reductions in car
        use by participating employees.

        Q. 2. Where is the $271,250 taken from?
                                                            2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/23/2018 2:58 PM

        A. 2. The $271,250 is the overall “in‐kind” match the project is required to meet
        per the Federal Guidelines. Each project vendor will contribute toward the 20%
        match and this requirement is built into the vendor contracts. The participating
        pilots will also contribute in‐kind and this will be built into the Memorandum of
        Understanding (MOUs) as they are developed. The City of Palo Alto received the
        award and is running the project, as such, it will carry a higher proportion of the
        match. In alignment with its cooperative agreement with the Federal Transit
        Administration (FTA), the City will request monthly in‐kind statements from the
        pilot partners and/or the City will request monthly in‐kind information from the
        vendors when invoices are submitted for payment. The City will report this to the
        FTA on a monthly basis and the project manager will track this to ensure the
        match is being met. The initial in‐kind projections are attached as a screenshot.

        Q. 3. How much discretion will the city have compared to the FTA since they stated
        in the grant that they will be hands on in the project and could change the direction
        if they wanted to?

        A. 3. This is a research and innovation project for the FTA’s Office of Research,
        Demonstration and Innovation (TRI). This project is one of 11 selected grantees
        and projects in a Sandbox Mobility grant program that received a total of $8
        million to use innovative public‐private partnerships to deploy, demonstrate, and
        evaluate on‐demand concepts in transit. This is also a co‐operative agreement
        and because of the nature of this project, the City of Palo Alto has a fair amount of
        discretion over the project.

        For example, last Fall, the City’s project manager worked closely with the FTA’s
        Sandbox Project Manager and the FTA’s Director of Mobility Innovation to re‐
        scope the project. It was a collaborative effort that resulted in several changes to
        the Statement of Work (which did not significantly change the project or scope) to
        more effectively structure the pilot demonstrations and provide more meaningful
        analysis.

        The proposed changes to the Statement of Work included restructuring the
        number of participating locations in order to make the project more meaningful
        and demonstration attainable. The City first sought to restructure the number of
        pilot projects from exactly 11 to a range of 4 to 11. This is significant because it
        gave the City the ability to work more closely with each pilot site and ensure the
        project is manageable. The City also believed a restructure in pilots was a better
        approach to capture more useful data and provide a more meaningful
        analysis. The City also sought to restructure the gap analysis locations from 8 to a
        range of 1 to 3. These adjustments will enable the City to develop a deeper
        understanding of the gaps and potential solutions for first mile/last mile
        challenges; this in turn will enable the City to propose relevant solutions and
        strategies, based upon an in‐depth analysis of current challenges. The overall
        project remained the same (including the equity and policy elements, which
        remain intact); the project was simply scaled to ensure it will be able to proceed
        to the demonstration phase of the program.

        The City recommended this streamlined approach to the FTA in order to ensure a
        more successful project with more meaningful results, and to enable the City to
                                                           3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/23/2018 2:58 PM
        produce a better case study for other regions to utilize to adapt and scale these
        initiatives in their unique circumstances.

        Throughout this process, the FTA remained engaged, supportive and flexible. At
        this point there is no reason to assume this relationship would be different in the
        future or that the FTA would change the project’s direction.

        Q. 4. What is the plan if the three companies cannot deliver on time?

        A. 4. San Francisco Bay Area Planning and Urban Research Association (Spur) is a
        leading and well‐respected non‐profit that works to address some of the toughest
        challenges in our urban areas around mobility, sustainability & resilience, housing,
        economic development and other regional planning issues. They have remained
        engaged and supportive for the past 20 months as the City worked on putting the
        pieces in place for this project. There is no reason to believe they will not deliver
        on their contract.

        RideAmigos is a leading cloud‐based commuter management platform located in
        Los Angeles. They are currently licensed through Commute.org in San Mateo
        County and are the leading commuter management platform in San Mateo
        County. RideAmigos will develop software feature set enhancements to their
        existing platform and will roll out these updates throughout the duration of the
        grant. RideAmigos will also support the pilot projects for San Mateo
        County. RideAmigos has remained engaged and supportive for the past 20
        months as the City worked on putting the pieces in place for this project. There is
        no reason to believe they will not deliver on their contract.

        Luum is a cloud‐based commuter management platform located in Seattle,
        WA. Luum will be the platform used for the pilots in Santa Clara County. Under
        the contract, Luum will develop the commute hubs and issue licenses for the pilot
        demonstrations in Santa Clara County. While Luum has been engaged on the
        project, the company is challenging to work with and has little experience working
        with the public sector. The company is also used to working with pro‐transit
        communities and organizations. Luum has had very good success in Washington
        State but the City has not been able to come to contracting terms with this
        organization. If necessary the City will pursue a contingency plan, such as
        contracting with RideAmigos for the Santa Clara County pilots.

        Q. 5. Where are attachments C, D, E which is supposed to describe in detail what
        the three vendors are going to do?

        A. 5. The contracts are still being negotiated.

Thank you,
Judy Ng
                    Judy Ng
                    City Manager’s Office|Administrative Associate III
                    250 Hamilton Avenue | Palo Alto, CA 94301
                    Phone: (650) 329‐2105
                    Email: Judy.Ng@CityofPaloAlto.org

                                                              4
                                 1                                                                                                                                                                                                      2                                                                                                                                    3                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4




                                                       RUNWAY 13-31



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PROPOSED                                                                                                                                            X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RUN-UP AREA
        TW B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TW A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           X
                                                                       TAXIWAY Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   X
C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C
                                Y3                                                       Y2                                                                                                                Y1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              X                X            X             X             X        X
                            Y




                                                   Y




                                                                                     Y




                                                                                                                                                                                             Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     X
                       Y




                                           Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TERMINAL




                                                                   Y




                                                                                                          Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BUILDING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Y
                                      G




                                                              H
                   F




                                                                                                                                                                  K
                                                                                                      J
                                                                                                                                                        2
                                                                                              2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         X
    X                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                      1


               X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Y
                                                                                                                                                                      4


                                                                                                          4                                         3


                                                                                                  3
                                                                                                                                                                                         6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Y
                                                                                                                      6




                                                                                                      PHASE
                                                                                                                                                                       5

                   X                                                                                  5

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             X
                                                                                                                                                                                                       8

                                                                                                                              8
                                                                                                                                                                                    7




                                                                             X
                                                                                                                  7

                                                                                                                                               10
                                                                                                                                                                                                  9
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ALT 1          10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              X
                                                                                                        I




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   M
                                                                                                                          9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               12


                                                                                                                                                                                                      21410 SY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  K
                                                                                                                                                             12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                11

                                                                                                                                          11




                                                                   X
                                X                                                                                                                                          14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             14




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PHASE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          13

                                                                                     X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BASE BID/
                                                                                                                                                        13




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ALT 1/4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      X
                                                                                                                                                                                        16




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ALT 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        15
                                       X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          X
                                                                                                                                                                      15


                                                                                                                                                                                                      18
                                                          X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  32307 SY                                                        24065 SY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     II
                                                                                                                                                                                17



                                                                                                      BASE BID
                                                                       X
                                               X                                                                                                                                                                     20



                           CIVIL AIR PATROL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                                                                                 19




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                              33190 SY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               22

                                   BUILDING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    J
                                                                                         X                                                                                                                      21




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        24




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          23



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PHASE I & III




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5
                                                               X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6
                                                                                                              X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3
                                                                                                                                  X                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BASE BID/




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ALT 3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MINOR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RO
                                                                         X                                                                                                                                                                                                           P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              22315 SY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EXPANSION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AREA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BA
                                                                                                  X




                                                                                                                                                                                                           N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Q




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EM
                                                                                                                                                                                X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         13




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        14
                                                                                                                                      X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ALT 1/4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               15
B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              16




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PHASE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       14
                                                                                                                                                                  X                          X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          34895 SY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    18




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 15




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S
                                                                                                                              X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               III




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  HA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     U




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            21




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                22




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   U
                                                                                                              X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               HA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    21
                                                                                                                                                                  X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FULL PAVEMENT SECTION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CONSTRUCTED IN PHASE I.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         X
                                                                                                                          X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TIE DOWNS, STRIPING AND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HA
                                                                                                                                                    X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ALT 2/5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LIGHTING TO BE INSTALLED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WITH PHASE III




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HA FBO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         HA FBO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AR                 14730 SY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  HA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NG
                                                                                                                                                                  X
                                                                                                                                                                                                           X


                                                                                                                                                                                                 X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X                                       AR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                          X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ALT 2/5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HA FBO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             29150 SY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NO.                                                          REVISION                         SPONSOR        DATE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               X


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PALO ALTO AIRPORT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PALO ALTO, CALIFORNIA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        X                                                                                    X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FBO

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  APRON RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HA FBO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   X



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              X



A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               X


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OVERALL PHASING PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            C&S Engineers, Inc.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8950 Cal Center Drive, Suite 112
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Sacramento, CA 95826
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Phone: 916-364-1470
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   www.cscos.com


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DESIGN:                                                DRAWN:                                     SHEET     OF   1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CHECK:                                                    DATE:        AUGUST 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  The preparation of this document may have been supported, in part, through the Airport
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Improvement Program financial assistance from the Federal Aviation Administration
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (Project Number Unassigned) as provided under Title 49 U.S.C., Section 47104. The
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  contents do not in any way constitute a commitment on the part of the United States to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PH-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       100                       0                                  100                          200FT.                           participate in any development depicted therein nor does it indicate that the proposed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   100'                                                                                                                           development is environmentally acceptable or would have justification in accordance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  with appropriate public laws.


                                 1                                                                                                                                                                                                      2                                                                                                                                    3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4
In Kind Contribution Amount Needed to Meet FTA Requirements (20o/o of $1,356,250)            $        271,250
Contributing Partner Program Professional Hours:                                             Estimates:
Pilot 1: City of Palo Alto (50h/mo @$125/h)                                                  $          73,645
Pilot 2: City of Mt. View (10h/mo @$100/h)                                                   $          12,000
Pilot 3: City TBD (10h/mo @$100/h)                                                           $          12,000
Pilot 4: City of Menlo Park (10h/mo @100/h)                                                  $          12,000
Pilot 5: Google (TBD)                                                                        -
Pilot 6: TBD                                                                                  -
Luum (20% of cotract value)                                                                   $        20,200
Ride Amigos (20% of contract value)                                                           $        20,800
SPUR (20% of contract value)                                                                  $        20,000
Prospect SV (20% of contract value)                                                           $        40,000
Downtown Palo Alto Transit Management Association (10h/mo@$175/h)                             $        31,500
Commute.org (10h/m@$100/h) + quarterly fee for county-wide license (TBD)                      $        18,000
VTA (10h/mo@$100/h)                                                                           $        18,000
                                                                                    Sub Total $       278, 145
Carnahan, David

From:                  Roy, Alyssa <ARoy@rutan.com>
Sent:                  Monday, August 27, 2018 4:50 PM
To:                    Kniss, Liz (internal); Council, City; Clerk, City
Cc:                    Lanferman, David; Tim Franzen; Alex Stanford; Stump, Molly; Keene, James; 'Andrew Zacks'
Subject:               8/27/18 City Council Meeting Agenda Item # 8
Attachments:           20180827164450325.pdf


Please see attached correspondence from David Lanferman regarding tonight’s Agenda Item # 8.

Thank you.

Alyssa Roy
Rutan & Tucker, LLP
Five Palo Alto Square, 3000 El Camino Real, Ste. 200
Palo Alto, CA 94306
ARoy@rutan.com
www.rutan.com

RUTAN
_____________________________________________________
Privileged And Confidential Communication.
This electronic transmission, and any documents attached hereto, (a) are protected by the Electronic Communications Privacy Act
(18 USC §§ 2510‐2521), (b) may contain confidential and/or legally privileged information, and (c) are for the sole use of the
intended recipient named above. If you have received this electronic message in error, please notify the sender and delete the
electronic message. Any disclosure, copying, distribution, or use of the contents of the information received in error is strictly
prohibited.




                                                                  1
 RUTAN
 - - -· - - -
                                                                                                    David P. Lanfennan
                                                                                             Direct Dial: (650) 320-1507
 RUTAN & T UCKER, LLP
                                                                                          E-mail: dlanferman@rutan.com




                                                 August 27, 2018



       VIA E-MAIL and HAND DELIVERY

       Honorable Mayor Liz Kniss                            City Clerk
        and Members of the City Council of Palo Alto        CITY OF PALO ALTO
       CITY OF PALO ALTO                                    250 Hamilton Avenue
       250 Hamilton Avenue                                  Palo Alto, CA 94301
       Palo Alto, CA 94301

              Re:       CITY COUNCIL MEETING -August 27, 2018

                        Agenda Item# 8:

                        Consideration of an "Emergency Ordinance" and a non-emergency
                        Ordinance to Amend P AMC Chapter 9.68 to Require-for Multifamily
                        Housing Developments of 50 Units or More-Relocation Assistance and Other
                        Restrictions (Cause for Eviction) on Termination of Tenancies and Evictions.

                        SUMMARY OF OBJECTIONS TO PROPOSED ACTIONS

       Dear Mayor Kniss and Members of the City Council:

               On behalf of our client, AJ Capital Management LLC ("AJ Capital"), we respectfully
       object to the proposed actions and request these matters be rejected. 1 The staff report confirms
       that these new ordinances are being rushed for adoption, at least in part, in reaction to objections
       from some of the tenants being required to vacate the President Hotel building at 488 University
       A venue, which AJ Capital is now planning to aesthetically restore and return to its historic and
       intended use as a hotel. Since the tenants of the President Hotel have previously been served with
       notices requiring that they vacate the premises by mid-November, none of the proposed new
       ordinances could be lawfully applied- retroactively- to impair the existing leases or notices of
       non-renewal- even if adopted by Council this evening.

              This agenda item unquestionably involves very imp01iant housing issues that deserve
       appropriate and thoughtful consideration by the City Council and the entire Palo Alto community.
       Unfortunately, however, this item is being unnecessarily rushed to the Council without adequate

           We refer collectively to both the proposed "Emergency Ordinance" and the substantively
       identical non-emergency "Ordinance" to require relocation assistance payments, as well as the
       alternative variant of the proposed emergency and non-emergency ordinances to require "just
       cause" for evictions as the "Action," unless otherwise stated.

Rutan & Tu cke r , LLP I Fi ve P a lo Alto Square, 3000 El Camino Real, Suite 200
P a lo Alto, CA 94306-9814 I 650-320-1500 I Fax 650-320-9905                                              27861034460-0001
Orange County I Palo Alto I www. rutan .com                                                            12775153.1 a08f27fl 8
RUTAN
RU TAN 4 lUCKCR L LP




           Honorable Mayor Liz Kniss
           City Clerk
           Page 2


          public notice, without critical analysis or evidence, and without providing sufficient time for
          members of the Council-or members of the public- to consider or respond to the very significant
          issues raised by this proposed legislation. The significant issues, and potential long-term impacts,
          raised by the proposed new ordinances will not lawfully apply to AJ Capital.

                 While it may understandably be tempting for the City to consider some new form of
          governmental intervention in the private rental marketplace, it is very questionable whether the
          proposed ordinances would effectively, or lawfully, promote the City's stated housing goals. At
          the same time, they would create new burdens that are likely to further drive up rents and
          discourage the creation of more rental housing and dis-incentivize the improvement and
          maintenance of the existing housing supply.

                  There are many procedural and substantive legal grounds for objection to the proposed
          actions, including (without limitation) those summarized below. Since the Staff Report was not
          provided until late Thursday August 23, 2018, there has only been limited time to review, analyze,
          and respond to these proposals, and the points swnmarized below are consequently abbreviated.

                  (1)     The ordinances would violate constitutional rights to due process of law,
          especially if applied retroactively to the existing tenancies or to previously-served notices of
          non-renewal: It is fundamental that newly-adopted legislation operates prospectively, and that
          constitutional principles of Due Process would preclude the retroactive application of the new
          ordinances (even if adopted) to impair existing rights or contractual relationships, or previously-
          commenced proceedings for reclaiming possession of rental properties. (U.S. Const., art. I, § 10;
          Cal. Const., art. I,§ 9; De Anza v. Palm Springs Rent Review Commission (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d
          116 [court of appeal held that local rent adjustment guidelines could not be retroactively effective
          to bar a property owner from relying on the law as it had existed at the time of his previous
          application of a rent increase].)

                  (2)    The proposed new ordinances would violate and be preempted by State law
         governing residential tenancies and notices of non-renewal: State law governs, and preempts
         the relevant subject matter including termination of residential tenancies, notices, and evictions.
         (E.g., Birkenfeldv. City ofBerkeley (1976) 17 Cal.3d 129 [Supreme Court struck down that portion
         of a local ordinance that imposed additional procedural requirements on landlords attempting
         eviction] and TriCounty Apartment Assn. v. City of Mountain View (1987) 196 Cal.App.3d 1283
         [state laws govern many aspects of the landlord/tenant relationship; a local ordinance purporting
         to require a longer period of notification to tenant of increasing rent than required by state law was
         preempted and declared invalid].)

                 (3)    The proposed new ordinances would violate the Ellis Act: Similarly, State
         law- i.e., the Ellis Act (Gov. Code, §7060 et seq.)- limits the terms and conditions that
         municipalities may impose on property owners seeking to cease residential rental operations at
         their properties. "A public entity may not impose an inevitable and undue burden ... on a


          2 786/034460-000 I
          12775 153 . 1 a08/27/18
RUTAN
RUlAU 6- TUCKC R, l lP




            Honorable Mayor Liz Kniss
            City Clerk
            Page 3


           landlord ' s exercise of its right under the Ellis Act to exit the residential rental business." (San
           Francisco Apartment Assn. v. City and County ofSan Francisco (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 463, 479,
           482 [an ordinance is preempted and void if it amounts to a substantive limit on a landlord's right
           to exit the rental market].) If applied to those owners seeking to exit the residential rental market,
           the proposed ordinances and new requirements for relocation assistance payments are invalid
           under the Ellis Act. (Coyne v. City and County of San Francisco (2017) 9 Cal. App.5th 1215;
           Channing Properties v. City ofBerkeley (1992) 11Cal.App.4th88, 96-100.)

                   (4)     The proposed ordinances would not be limited to "affordable" or rent-
          controlled housing units: While the Ellis Act may allow a city to impose reasonable measures
          to protect tenants of units withdrawn from rent under certain circumstances, it also provides that
          those measures only apply ifthe agency "has in effect any control or system of control on the price
          at which accommodations may be offered for rent or lease . . .. " (Gov. Code,§§ 7060.2, 7060.4.)
          In the absence of an adopted rent control program, the City cannot lawfully approve the Action.
          In the "Survey of California Cities that Require Relocation Assistance Payments" included in the
          Staff Report, twelve of the thirteen cities cited have some form of rent control, and every
          jurisdiction that bases the amount of the relocation assistance payment on the size of the unit has
          rent control in place. The proposal to require payment of a relocation subsidy to tenants moving
          out of market rate housing would be inconsistent with the policies behind state and local law aimed
          at assisting residents of "affordable housing."

                  (5)    The ordinances would violate constitutional rights to equal protection of the
          laws, by arbitrarily discriminating against certain property owners, and irrationally
          subjecting only buildings with 50 or more units to burdens differing from those imposed on
          similarly situated property owners: There is no evidence, substantial or otherwise, to justify the
          proposed arbitrary application of the new ordinances only to properties with 50 or more units, nor
          any evidence or rational basis for the discriminatory structure of the proposed ordinances. (See,
          e.g., Walgreen Co. v. City & County of San Francisco (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 424, 434
          [invalidating ordinance discriminating arbitrarily between pharmacies and general grocery stores];
          and Coalition Advocating Legal Housing Options v. City ofSanta Monica (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th
          451 [invalidating ordinance arbitrarily limiting eligible occupants of residential second units].)
          The City must provide a rational basis, supported by substantial evidence, to try to justify the
          discriminatory application of the ordinances. (Fry v. City of Hayward (N.D. Cal. 1988) 701
          F.Supp. 179 [invalidating initiative ordinance on equal protection grounds].)

                 (6)     Failure to provide factual or legal justification for "emergency" legislation:
          The Council may not lawfully adopt the proposed Emergency Ordinance because it does not
          contain the mandatory findings required by Government Code section 65858, or Palo Alto
          Municipal Code ("PAMC") section 2.04.270(d). Even if it had made the requisite findings, the
          City Council' s action would still fail as there is no substantial evidence in the record to support
          the necessary declaration of an "emergency." To the contrary, the record acknowledges that the
          sho1iage of rental housing in Palo Alto has been a "prolonged" condition, i.e., not a sudden event


           2786/034460-000 I
           12775153 .1 a08/27/1 8
RUTAN
RUlMf   &.   TU C tot[R , LLP




                 Honorable Mayor Liz Kniss
                 City Clerk
                 Page 4


               and not an "emergency."2 Similarly, Government Code section 65858 does not provide any basis
               for "emergency" action as proposed. There is no evidence in the record showing that there is any
               study underway regarding changes to the City's Comprehensive Plan, specific plan(s), or zoning
               code that might warrant an "emergency" interim ordinance under section 65858 or otherwise.

                       (7)      An "emergency ordinance" may not lawfully be used to stifle or burden a
               specific development proposal: A city ordinance cannot be enacted for the purpose of frustrating
               a developer's plans. (Sunset View Cemetery Association v. Kraintz (1961) 196 Cal.App.2d 115,
               123-24. Here, as in that case, the staffrep01i acknowledges (pp. 1, 3) that the proposed ordinances
               are in direct response to AJ Capital's proposal to restore the President Hotel to hotel use. To the
               extent that the proposed ordinances may be intended to frustrate a paiiicular development proposal,
               they would be discriminatory, unlawful, and inapplicable to the targeted development. (Stewart
               Enterprises v. City of Oakland (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 41 O; Arne! Dev. v. City of Costa Mesa
               (1981) 126 Cal.App.3d 330; and Kieffer v. Spence (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 954.)

                        (8)    The City must comply with the California Environmental Quality Act before
               taking any action on the proposed ordinances: The proposed actions would clearly require
               compliance with the California Environn1ental Quality Act ("CEQA") before the City could
               lawfully adopt either ordinance. (Public Resources Code, §§ 21080, 21000, 21065.) There is no
               evidentiary basis for the proposed finding that "it can be seen with certainty" that the proposed
               actions "have no potential" for direct or indirect environmental consequences. (See, e.g., Terminal
               Plaza Corp. v. City & County of San Francisco (1986) 177 Cal.App.3d 892, 904-907 [City's
               failure to comply with CEQA before adopting hotel conversion ordinance was " illegal."].) To the
               contrary, it can be seen with near certainty that the proposed actions would have significant
               potential direct or indirect environmental consequences.

                       (9)     There is no legal or factual justification for the City to try to declare the
               proposed actions "categorically exempt" from CEQA review, and the City erroneously fails
               to consider the exceptions to any relevant categorical exemption: There is no substantial
               evidentiai·y or legal support for the City to try to "exempt" these actions from any CEQA review,
               and such a claim of categorical exemption would plainly be unlawful. (See, e.g., Save Our Big
               Trees v. City ofSanta Cruz (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 694, 705 [rejecting City's unsupported claim
               of categorical exemption from CEQA].) The City has the burden "to demonstrate with substantial
               evidence that the (proposed action satisfies the criteria of the claimed exemption]." (Muzzy Ranch
               Co. v. Solano County Airport Land Use Com. (2007) 41 Cal.4th 372, 386.) A petitioner bears no


               2  The Palo Alto "housing shortage" is not a new phenomenon, and is often attributed to the
               City's own policies. According to the City' s own Comprehensive Plan (Table 5-1) the City only
               produced 1,063 total housing units between 2007- 2014, which was only 37 percent of its Regional
               Housing Needs Allocation. Of those, only 290 units- or 16 percent of the regional goal- were
               deemed "affordable."

                2786/034460-000 I
                12775153.1 a08/27/18
  .
RUTAN
fll.JTAU £ T\J CKCR , LLP




              Honorable Mayor Liz Kniss
              City Clerk
              Page 5


            burden to show a project will degrade the environment. (Save Our Big Trees v. City of Santa
            Cruz (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 694, 705.) In addition, the court of appeal has emphasized that a
            categorical "exemption can be relied on only if a factual evaluation of the agency's proposed
            activity reveals that it applies." (Id.) And the staff rep01t fails to consider whether any
            "exceptions" to a categorical exemption might require CEQA compliance. An agency may not
            invoke a categorical exemption from CEQA without considering whether it is foreclosed by an
            exception. (Berkeley Hillside Preservation v. City ofBerkeley (2015) 60 Cal.4th 1086, 1103.) The
            City cannot ignore the substantial probability of environmental consequences of this action, and
            the relevance of the "unusual circumstances" exception to any categorical exemption from CEQA
            (see below).

                    (10) It is reasonably foreseeable that adoption of the proposed ordinances will
            result in direct and indirect environmental consequences and well as adverse impacts on
            rents and housing supply: The City cannot lawfully disregard the many possible environmental
            impacts, direct or indirect, of the ordinances. For example, if landlords are to be required to pay
            relocation assistance to outgoing tenants, they are likely to offset those new costs by increasing
            the rents charged to incoming tenants, or by reducing the amounts available for maintenance or
            improvements. By providing some displaced tenants with the windfall of "tenant relocation"
            assistance, the ordinances will inject new money into the market-rate rental market, thus inducing
            other landlords to demand higher rents. By making it more difficult and costly to remove tenants,
            the ordinances reduce the incentives to build or upgrade rental housing in Palo Alto, reducing both
            the supply and quality of rental housing, and creating an impediment to safety upgrades such as
            environmental remediation, seismic upgrades, and fire and life safety systems. This may result in
            significant urban decay impacts. See, e.g., California Clean Energy Committee v. City of
            Woodland (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 173, 188 ["When there is evidence ... that economic and social
            effects caused by a project ... could result in a reasonably foreseeable indirect environmental
            impact, such as urban decay or deterioration, then the CEQA lead agency is obligated to assess
            this indirect environmental impact."].) In Terminal Plaza Corp., supra, l 77 Cal.App.3d at 904-
            907, the cowt of appeal rejected a city's argument that its enactment of a hotel conversion
            ordinance imposing new burdens on owners of residential hotels was exempt from CEQA. The
            reasonably foreseeable indirect and negative environmental impacts of the ordinances must be
            analyzed before the Council acts on them.

                   (11) Failure to refer the proposed new ordinances for study by the Planning &
            Transportation Commission: The proposed actions should be referred to the Planning and
            Transpo1tation Commission for review before any Council action, as required by Government
            Code section 65864, since the ordinances would, in effect, operate like new zoning ordinances
            applicable to certain properties.




            2786/034460-000 l
            12775153.1 a08/27/l8
RUTAN
RUT AH&> TUCl'l.CR LLi-




             Honorable Mayor Liz Kniss
             City Clerk
             Page 6


                   (12) The Action is not consistent with the City's Comprehensive Plan: There is
           nothing in the record to indicate, much less demonstrate, how the proposed ordinances would be
           consistent with any aspect of the City 's Comprehensive Plan or would promote any of the City's
           established housing goals and policies. As explained above, there is no articulated public policy
           reason cited in the record justifying the proposed new mandated subsidies targeted to benefit a
           select group of tenants residing in market-rate rental units.

                                                        ********************

                  In light of the serious questions, unstudied issues, and patent legal deficiencies inherent in
           the proposed actions, we respectfully urge the City Council to reject the proposed new ordinances.
           Adoption of the proposed Emergency Ordinances or Ordinances in the present form would lead to
           many adverse consequences and may needlessly expose the City to the risk of costly legal
           proceedings by many affected paii ies.

                          Thank you for yom consideration.

                                                             Very truly yours,




           DPL:mtr

           cc:            Tim Franzen, AJ Capital
                          Alex Stanford, AJ Capital
                          Molly Stump, City Attorney
                          James Keene, City Manager
                          Andrew Zacks, Zacks, Freedman & Patterson, PC




            2786/034460-000 I
            12775 153. 1 a08/27/18
Carnahan, David

From:             Suzanne Keehn <dskeehn@pacbell.net>
Sent:             Monday, August 27, 2018 5:12 PM
To:               Council, City
Subject:          ADUs



To the P. A. City Council,

Please dial back to the State Requirements, or to the original staff suggestions.

In the current proposal there is no tree protection for adjacent lots.

No basements for ADUs, also hurts trees, roots from the next residence.

There needs to be a 20ft. rear yard setback not 6, That will create tunnels of 12 feet
between , and create 17 foot height tunnels at the property line.

Will ruin our back yard natural habitat.

Please , do not ruin our R1 neighborhoods.

And please no parking in the front, with out real designated spaces. Covering
everything
with cement, smothers our earth.

Suzanne Keehn
4076 Orme St.
94306




                                                    1
Carnahan, David

From:             Christine Czarnecki <czarnecki@sbcglobal.net>
Sent:             Monday, August 27, 2018 11:34 AM
To:               Council, City
Subject:          Choices for Rail and Road intersections in Palo Alto



To the Palo Alto City Council members;

I would like to see scale drawings of what the different proposals will look like, looking east and looking
west from the intersections and from Alma. It is my opinion that the cross sections shown are insufficient
to understand the visual and sound impacts of the alternatives, especially the so-called hybrid option,
where the train will be elevated about the street level.

If these drawings have not been commissioned, please do so and, once received, release them for public
scrutiny and comment.

It it my strong preference to go with either the tunnel for the train, or the reverse hybrid option, where
the train in lowered into a trench below grade.

We need to think of what will be the best choice for Palo Alto going into the future, not solely what will be
the cheapest and most expedient solution for now.

Thank you.




                                                          1
Carnahan, David

From:                 D Martell <dmpaloalto@gmail.com>
Sent:                 Saturday, August 25, 2018 1:30 PM
To:                   Stump, Molly
Cc:                   Mello, Joshuah; Lauing, Ed; Council, City; Kniss, Liz (internal); Scharff, Gregory (internal); Keene, James;
                      Minor, Beth; Lunt, Kimberly; Brettle, Jessica; Carnahan, David; Kleinberg, Judy; Bill Johnson; Jay
                      Thorwaldson; Dave Price; Allison@padailypost.com; EmiBach@padailypost.com;
                      AnnaEshoo@mail.house.gov; Anne.Ream@mail.house.gov; Senator.Hill@senate.ca.gov; Alex
                      Kobayashi; Supervisor.Simitian@bos.sccgov.org; Micaela.Hellman-Tincher@bos.sccgov.org; VHS101
                      @yahoo.com; richard@alexanderlaw.com; Aram James; Andrew Pierce; Debra@firstpaloalto.com;
                      Bear.ride@fprespa.org; CHamilton@da.sccgov.org; JRosen@dao.sccgov.org; Goodell, Erin; Jonsen,
                      Robert
Subject:              CPRA Request | LG obliterates FIVE downtown Handicap Zones




Molly Suzanne Stump, JD
City Attorney at City of Palo Alto

        CALIFORNIA PUBLIC RECORDS ACT REQUEST (made this 25th day of August, 2018)

Dear Madame:

Pursuant to California Public Records Act Request (CPRA) (Govt. Code § 6250 et seq.), re the recent destruction of FIVE
downtown Handicap Zones by Lytton Gardens Senior Communities (LG) on Lytton Street, I request the release of copies
of the following documents:

        1. All emails and communications that Transportation Division Official Joshuah Mello received on the topic.

        2. All city communications with LG on the issue.

        3. All City-LG issues going back 36 months.

Absent some legitimate reason for delay provided in the government code, make sure that I receive the requested
documents within ten (10) days of this CPRA Request. Send all correspondence via my email
to dmPaloAlto@gmail.com.

Thank you very much.
I appreciate your time and help.

Respectfully,
-Danielle Martell
dmPaloAlto@gmail.com




                                                                1
2
Carnahan, David

From:                marilynn holland <marilynn.holland@gmail.com>
Sent:                Tuesday, August 28, 2018 9:47 AM
To:                  Council, City
Cc:                  Bobby Holland
Subject:             El Camino parked vehicles


City Council,
This is my first letter to the City Council of Palo Alto.
It is quite distressing to see pretty beat up looking Mobile homes, not just parked, but jacked up for permanent stays.
They line the street in front of our beautiful Stanford playing fields, and proceed for a mile down past Page Mill Road.
They have been parked that way for over a year.

While I sympathize with whatever their circumstances may be, we all pay high taxes to live in our beautiful city of Palo
Alto. These vehicles are an eyesore and not fair to other mobile home owners that pay to use facilities at a mobile home
park.

Where will this end? Will our main streets become full of raggedy sleeping compartments that we look at everyday on
our way to work or play?

Can there not be some limit to the time a vehicle can be parked on public streets?
Surely this is a problem that can effectively be solved.

Thank you for your service and consideration of this issue.

Marilynn Holland
30 year resident




                                                              1
Carnahan, David

From:               Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com>
Sent:               Wednesday, August 29, 2018 1:19 AM
To:                 gkirby@redwoodcity.org; council@redwoodcity.org; Kniss, Liz (internal); Jonsen, Robert;
                    mdiaz@redwoodcity.org; stevendlee@alumni.duke.edu; paloaltofreepress@gmail.com;
                    ibain@redwoodcity.org; dcbertini@menlopark.org; myraw@smcba.org; HRC; Constantino, Mary;
                    Council, City; wilpf.peninsula.paloalto@gmail.com; molly.o'neal@pdo.sccgov.org;
                    jrosen@da.sccgov.org; apardini@cityofepa.org; michael.gennaco@oirgroup.com; Binder, Andrew;
                    chuckjagoda1@gmail.com; stephanie@dslextreme.com; roberta.ahlquist@sjsu.edu; Perron, Zachary;
                    Stump, Molly; Kilpatrick, Brad; jalcaraz@cityofepa.org; cmartinez@cityofepa.org;
                    scharpentier@cityofepa.org; mbuell@cityofepa.org
Subject:            Ex-Texas police officer found guilty of murder in fatal shooting of black teenager


Ex‐Texas police officer found guilty of murder in fatal shooting of black teenager https://www.cbsnews.com/news/roy‐
oliver‐former‐texas‐police‐officer‐guilty‐of‐murder‐in‐fatal‐shooting‐of‐black‐teen‐jordan‐edwards/


Sent from my iPhone




                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/24/2018 11:24 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                Arlene Goetze <photowrite67@yahoo.com>
Sent:                                Friday, August 24, 2018 11:08 AM
To:                                  Cindy Chavez; Councilmember Don Rocha
Subject:                             Facebook Fake News--Coconut oil good/bad?



There is a big ruckus on Facebook about coconut oil.
Harvard prof Dr Karin Michels is reported by the media to have claimed it is a 'poison' in a talk in German to
Germans. She forgot to mention that coconut oil raises good cholesterol HDL more than bad cholesterol LDL
in coconut oil. Perhaps that was lost in the translation by US social media. Below is one reputable response.
from Arlene Goetze, No Toxins for Children, photowrite67@yahoo.com
  Many families with advanced cases of Alzheimer's praise organic coconut oil for improvement in their patients as does Dr Mary
Newport, MD for her young husband.



Is coconut oil bad for your cholesterol??
Main points:
* . . . coconut oil’s overall effect raises good HDL while lowering triglycerides and small bad LDL
cholesterol particles-- definitely a good thing.
* Carbs worsen blood levels of the even-chained saturated fats, which cause heart disease.
*Recent U.S. Dietary Guidelines finally stopped recommending lowering cholesterol and dietary fat.
* Studies show saturated fat raises LDL but it improves the quality of the LDL and increases its size
making it less likely to promote heart disease.
 * It also raises HDL. On the other hand, sugar lowers HDL.

by Dr Mark Hyman, UltraWellness Center, Lenox, MA
   Ever since I started using coconut oil, my cholesterol has spiked,” writes this week’s house
call. “I’m afraid coconut oil with all that saturated fat is creating more harm than good.
Should I continue to use it?”
Since I expressed my love for medium-chain triglyceride oil or MCT oil, I’ve received this question several
times.
   I call MCTs (found in coconut oil) a super fuel for your cells because your body uses
this kind of fat very efficiently. Your cells burn MCTs for energy while storing very
little as fat, boosting your metabolism and supporting your immune system.
MCTs also help balance many hormones, including the ones that control your
appetite. They keep you feeling full and satisfied. They actually improve your
cholesterol profile.
   They also help your body burn fat. One study found that consuming MCT oils helped
reduce body fat and triglycerides more than omega 6 vegetable oils. After eight weeks, the
experiment showed the MCT oil group lost more weight, body fat and subcutaneous fat, all
while experiencing a 15 percent drop in triglycerides and LDL.
   At the same time, as MCT-rich coconut oil becomes more popular, it also becomes a
concern among some folks because of its high amounts of saturated fat and potential for
raising cholesterol.
   The reality is, cholesterol is not black and white. Classifying it as “good” or “bad” vastly
oversimplifies this molecule, which among its duties helps synthesize vitamin D and
hormones while maintaining cell structure.
                                                                1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/24/2018 11:24 AM
Some fats do raise cholesterol, whereas others lower cholesterol. Even when saturated fat does raise your
cholesterol, the type of cholesterol becomes more important than cholesterol itself.
   As a doctor, I tell patients that abnormal cholesterol can become a problem when it
is the small dense LDL particles, accompanied by high triglycerides. In fact small
LDL particles actually triple your risk of heart disease. This is caused by high-carb,
low-fat diets and is improved when you add fat back to the diet, including saturated
fat.
   Studies show saturated fat raises LDL (your so-called “bad” cholesterol) but it improves
the quality of the LDL and increases its size making it less likely to promote heart disease.
It also raises HDL (“good” cholesterol). On the other hand, sugar lowers
HDL. Ultimately, the ratio of total to LDL cholesterol and particle number and size are a
far bigger predictor of heart attacks than LDL itself.
   That brings us back to coconut oil, which can contain up to 90 percent saturated fat.
Interestingly, countries with the highest intakes of coconut oil have the lowest rates of
heart disease.
   While research shows coconut oil contains higher amounts of saturated fat
and does increase total cholesterol, those amounts do not increase your heart attack or
stroke risk.
   In fact, one study among lean, heart disease- and stroke-free Pacific Islanders who
consumed up to 63 percent of their calories from coconut fat found total cholesterol rose
but so did their “good” HDL.
   Other studies found lipid profiles improve on high-fat diets containing coconut oil.
Researchers concluded it wasn’t saturated fat from coconuts that negatively impacted
cholesterol profile. Instead, the coconut oil’s overall effect raised HDL while lowering
triglycerides and small LDL cholesterol particles, which is definitely a good thing.
   Coconut oil provides other benefits such as lowering insulin levels, protecting
against heart disease. The predominant fatty acid in coconut oil is lauric acid, which
provides antimicrobial, antibacterial and antiviral benefits.
    There is a huge difference between quality saturated fat in coconut oil or MCT oils, as
compared with what you get in a fast food cheeseburger. Lumping them all together
becomes like putting cauliflower and a cupcake under the carbohydrate category.

 Don’t be afraid of saturated fat, but get it from healthy sources like coconuts and
grass-fed beef, which automatically edges out unhealthy sources.
And total cholesterol is not an accurate predictor of heart disease or stroke.
Inflammation is the culprit for most diseases, and coconut oil is highly anti-
inflammatory.
   To answer your question…if your doctor finds you have high cholesterol, ask him or her
to dig deeper to see what’s really going on. Ask the right questions and most importantly,
get the right tests!
   You should request a particle size test to check for cholesterol particle size and number.
Other cholesterol tests are simply outdated. A routine, regular cholesterol test won’t reveal
particle size.
   The tests you’ll want to ask for are either an NMR Lipid Panel from LabCorp or the
Cardio IQ Test from Quest Diagnostics. Those are the only tests to really know what’s going
on with your cholesterol. Optimal results will show plenty of safe, light, fluffy, big particles
with minimal small, dense, artery-damaging particles.
   Combine healthy fats with a no-added-sugar diet and you have an effective strategy
to normalize cholesterol while reducing your risk for heart disease, obesity, type 2 diabetes
                                                      2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/24/2018 11:24 AM
and numerous other chronic conditions. Eliminating refined carbs and sugar and adding
adequate omega 3 fats means saturated fat should not be a problem.

In one interventional trial, researchers showed even on a low-carb diet that was
higher in saturated fats, blood levels of saturated fat were lower. That’s because
dietary saturated fats do not raise dangerous blood saturated fats – sugar and refined
carbs do! They also found people on a higher saturated-fat diet had lower levels of
inflammation and oxidative stress, as well as a better cholesterol profile.
   Other studies confirm carbs worsen blood levels of the even chained saturated-fats,
which cause heart disease. These carbs drive your liver to create more fat in your blood, a
process called lipogenesis triggered by alcohol, soda, sugar-sweetened drinks, starches and
sugars. Whole, healthy-fat foods like butter, meat or cheese do not increase this process.
   Note, too, that recent U.S. Dietary Guidelines finally stopped recommending
lowering cholesterol and dietary fat. In fact, the new guidelines don’t
emphasize any limit on total dietary fat or cholesterol, which is a complete reversal
on governmental advice from 35 years ago. Better late than never!
   If you’re curious to learn more, I dive deep into the benefits of coconut oil and saturated
fat while busting cholesterol and other myths in my new book, Eat Fat, Get Thin.
   Simply put, the real villain that robs our health and increases our waistlines
is sugar and anything that breaks down to sugar like refined carbohydrates. Quality
fats like coconut oil and more anti-inflammatory omega 3 fats help edge out those
sugars and inflammatory refined omega 6 fat vegetable oils.
Wishing you health & happiness,
Mark Hyman, MD


Mark Hyman MD is the Director of Cleveland Clinic’s Center for Functional Medicine, the Founder of The
UltraWellness Center, and a ten-time #1 New York Times Bestselling author.
If you are looking for personalized medical support, we highly recommend contacting Dr. Hyman’s
UltraWellness Center in Lenox, Massachusetts today.




                                                     3
Carnahan, David

From:                 Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Sent:                 Monday, August 27, 2018 11:27 AM
To:                   Loran Harding; dennisbalakian; David Balakian; Dan Richard; Doug Vagim;
                      esmeralda.soria@fresno.gov; paul.caprioglio; Mark Standriff; Mayor; beachrides; bearwithme1016
                      @att.net; Cathy Lewis; Council, City; huidentalsanmateo; robert.andersen;
                      blackstone@blastfitness.com; Leodies Buchanan; bballpod; Chris Field; Daniel Zack;
                      fmerlo@wildelectric.net; Raymond Rivas; hennessy; steve.hogg; Joel Stiner; jerry ruopoli; kfsndesk;
                      kwalsh@kmaxtv.com; kclark; leager; Tom Lang; Mark Kreutzer;
                      mthibodeaux@electriclaboratories.com; mmt4@pge.com; scott.mozier; nick yovino;
                      nchase@bayareanewsgroup.com; newsdesk; pavenjitdhillon@yahoo.com; popoff;
                      russ@topperjewelers.com; Steve Wayte; terry; Mark Waldrep; yicui@stanford.edu
Subject:              Fwd: State Ins. Commissioner warns again re higher ins. costs from fires




‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Mon, Aug 27, 2018 at 10:44 AM
Subject: Fwd: State Ins. Commissioner warns again re higher ins. costs from fires
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>


        Monday, Aug. 27, 2018

         To all‐ I have received my home owner's insurance policy for the year starting Oct. 5, 2018. The premium is
5.1% higher than it was for the year beginning Oct. 5, 2017. I do not think that I live in a fire‐prone area in NW Fresno,
but see the discussion in the attached about that. If you live in California you are subject to wildfires, Cal‐Fire is saying.

        Prop. 103, passed in 1988, is saving us from the insurance Cos. recovering, in one year, the billions of dollars the
2017 wildfires in California are costing them. The wine country fire alone is costing them $12 billion. I remember well
when 103 was passed, and it barely passed. The insurance industry spent big money fighting it and really hates it. Info.
re Prop. 103:

        https://www.cnbc.com/2017/12/07/californias‐big‐fire‐losses‐in‐2017‐wont‐mean‐huge‐insurance‐hikes‐in‐
2018.html

        So if you do not live in a fire prone area, brace for maybe a 5% hike in your next home insurance premium. I hate
to think what owners in fire prone areas will now pay, but I did not buy a home in the woods. To some tiny extent,
wildfires are foreseeable and have been burning thousands of homes to the ground for many years now in
California. Unless government officials take steps, they will continue. See the attached for some ideas I suggest. I do not
understand why I have to make these suggestions. Where is government here? Do you see speeches in Congress by
Senator Diane Feinstein, our other U.S. Senator, Kamala Harris, and by members of the House from California re the
wildfires we are having and offering ideas to limit the damage? I do not.

       Jerry Brown is a smart guy. Why can't he develop ideas to limit the wildfire damage? He can call on every
employee of the State of California for ideas and on every expert outside of government. He stood at a news conference
recently regarding the fires and said that we have to change where we build homes and how we build them. We need
more ideas than that, and I offer some good ones in the attached. Implementing those and others will take money, but
we just passed a DOD budget of $716 billion for the next year, and Trump crowed that it is the largest ever. It will enable

                                                               1
the people of Europe, Japan, Korea to live the good life and let young Americans to fight their wars for them, but we
desperately need that money for things here at home. The American suckers are gouged to pay 70% of the cost of
NATO.

         We should recommend that Germany, France, Spain, Italy, Japan, etc. draft two million 20 year‐olds, hand them
a gun, house them in barracks, and train them to fight wars. At present, they are languishing in coffee bars with their
good‐looking girlfriends, attending free universities, enjoying wonderful national health care systems, riding extensive,
beautiful high speed rail systems, while the traitors in Washington, D.C., screw the American people in every way they
can. I think they have forgotten history.

      Not one idea regarding the wildfires from our elected officials, local, State or federal. They are all too busy out
shopping, I guess.

       L. William Harding
       Fresno, Ca.


‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Sun, Aug 19, 2018 at 4:09 PM
Subject: Fwd: State Ins. Commissioner warns again re higher ins. costs from fires
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>, dennisbalakian <dennisbalakian@sbcglobal.net>, David
Balakian <davidbalakian@sbcglobal.net>, Dan Richard <danrichard@mac.com>, Doug Vagim <dvagim@gmail.com>,
esmeralda.soria@fresno.gov, "paul.caprioglio" <paul.caprioglio@fresno.gov>, Mark Standriff
<mark.standriff@fresno.gov>, Mayor <mayor@fresno.gov>, beachrides <beachrides@sbcglobal.net>,
bearwithme1016@att.net, Cathy Lewis <catllewis@gmail.com>, "city.council" <city.council@cityofpaloalto.org>,
huidentalsanmateo <huidentalsanmateo@gmail.com>, "robert.andersen" <robert.andersen@fresno.gov>,
blackstone@blastfitness.com, Leodies Buchanan <leodiesbuchanan@yahoo.com>, bballpod <bballpod@aol.com>, Chris
Field <cfield@ciw.edu>, Daniel Zack <daniel.zack@fresno.gov>, fmerlo@wildelectric.net, Raymond Rivas
<financialadvisor007@gmail.com>, hennessy <hennessy@stanford.edu>, "steve.hogg" <steve.hogg@fresno.gov>, Joel
Stiner <jastiner@gmail.com>, jerry ruopoli <jrwiseguy7@gmail.com>, kfsndesk <kfsndesk@abc.com>,
kwalsh@kmaxtv.com, kclark <kclark@westlandswater.org>, leager <leager@fresnoedc.com>, Tom Lang
<tlang@aquariusaquarium.org>, Mark Kreutzer <mlkreutzer@yahoo.com>, mthibodeaux@electriclaboratories.com,
mmt4@pge.com, "scott.mozier" <scott.mozier@fresno.gov>, nick yovino <npyovino@gmail.com>,
nchase@bayareanewsgroup.com, newsdesk <newsdesk@ksee.com>, pavenjitdhillon@yahoo.com, popoff
<popoff@pbworld.com>, russ@topperjewelers.com, Steve Wayte <steve4liberty@gmail.com>, terry
<terry@terrynagel.com>, Mark Waldrep <mwaldrep@aixmediagroup.com>, yicui@stanford.edu



‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Sun, Aug 19, 2018 at 3:16 PM
Subject: Fwd: State Ins. Commissioner warns again re higher ins. costs from fires
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>



‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Sun, Aug 19, 2018 at 3:06 PM
Subject: Fwd: State Ins. Commissioner warns again re higher ins. costs from fires

                                                             2
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>



‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Sun, Aug 19, 2018 at 2:45 PM
Subject: Fwd: State Ins. Commissioner warns again re higher ins. costs from fires
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>


     Sunday, Aug. 19, 2018

     To all‐


      More information. KCBS this morning just after 11AM had a woman on from Cal‐Fire. She said that we no longer
have a "fire season" in California and that it is now a year‐round phenom. Warmer temperatures, dryer conditions make
for more wildfires and during more parts of the year. She is indicating that the people at Cal‐Fire, at least, now believe
that the climate has changed, at least in California and other western states. Climate change may be a hoax cooked up at
Stanford, but something has changed to increase the frequency and severity of wildfires, at least in the opinion and
experience of Cal‐Fire.

      She said that if you live in California, you are now subject to wildfires, and you should be prepared to evacuate!
Even if you live in an area which does not seem to put you at risk for wildfires, you are subject to them now. She said
that wildfires are ferocious and that the embers they produce can land a mile out in front of the fire and start new fires.

     She also said that residents of Santa Rosa, Calif. never thought, in October, 2017, that a fire there would jump
Hwy. 101 and burn thousands of home, but it did.

       This may all be scare‐talk by wild‐eyed liberals from the Bay Area. You decide. If it is, people at Cal‐Fire should be
disciplined for scare‐mongering.

     She gave a website, once, and said it quickly, to help all residents of California prepare to evacuate quickly.

      www.readyforwildfire.org.

     Thankfully, KCBS repeated it.

     When you get to that website, you have to scroll and click again. Cal‐Fire should get the website right, but I know
they are pretty busy right now.

      If every home‐owner in California now has a home in a fire‐prone area, we are going to face escalating
homeowners' insurance premiums. Prop. 13 saved us from rampant, outrageous property tax gouging by school districts
and local governments, but who will save us from this?

      We may have to elect a President who has some concern for the suckers, the American people. The current one
has as his paramount goal the in‐your‐face screwing of 99% of the American people, all to enrich his fellow one‐
percenters. $716 billion was just passed for the DOD in the coming year when half that would deter and defeat any foe
or combination of foes. It is more than the next 20 largest industrial nations put together spend on defense. That makes
sense since we provide a free military defense for the next 20 largest, and richest, industrial nations. The United States
pays 70% of the cost of NATO, by Trump's own recent public complaint.

                                                               3
     Some of those wasted billions should be re‐directed to controlling the severe wildfires in California and other
western states.

      There are things that could be done to address the now severe, year‐round wildfires plaguing California and other
western states with their months long severe air pollution which Californians are forced to breath. Forest management
practices in California have been terrible, with even the smallest forest fire snuffed out immediately. Before the modern
era, moderate wildfires cleared out the fuel.

     One thinks of building fire breaks during the non‐fire season, but the area covered by California's forests is
immense. I've suggested the simple expedient of cutting dead trees down, piling them up and soaking them with
retardant. I notice that fires sometimes jump from tree‐top to tree‐top. If trees are horizontal on the ground, and have
some retardant on them, how could that propagation take place? What if big firebreaks were created with this
technique, several miles wide, and in the non‐fire season, if there still is such a thing. That would be expensive, but we
are spending huge money to fight wildfires in California now. We are told that embers can travel large distances, so
those could defeat big fire breaks in some cases, but such fire breaks might help limit the spread of a wildfire.

    I think that extreme vigilance would help, and that means surveillance. I vaguely recall hearing recently that
satellites can see small wildfires. Maybe we need more satellites to do that. Look‐out towers used to help spot fires, but
many of them are now gone. Maybe we build some again. Aircraft flying over forests could spot fires when they are
small. Perhaps we have to build up a real forest fire surveillance air force, armed with infra‐red equipment, to see fires
before they get big.

     What if we put fire sensors in the forests and had them transmit to satellites any indication of a wildfire getting
started. That technology probably already exists. If it does not, it would be an easy task for Silicon Valley to undertake.
Then we install thousands of such sensors in our forests. Cameras, smoke detectors, heat sensors, microphones,
humidity and wind measurement equipment could all be included in such sensors. Maybe they could be dropped from
aircraft into the forests. Stealing or damaging one could be made a very serious crime. The sensor itself could report any
attempt to steal or disable it.

      The fire retardant drops by the DC‐10 (s) and the 747 (s) do really work. I suggest we have five or ten times the
number of such craft that we have now in California. Expensive for sure, but we are going to need them, and look what
we spend now fighting the fires after they start and grow huge. Then pre‐position a LOT of fire retardant where these
planes can re‐fill. Designate more airports for them dwell in and fly from. Enact laws that will allow State and federal
officials to limit commercial air traffic, if need be, when these planes are called into action. Rich Republicans who own
the airlines won't like this at all, but these planes should have top priority. We now have a public health crisis in
California, with the residents here breathing dangerous wildfire smoke for months and months on end every year. The
wealthy owners of the TV stations in Fresno are having their on‐air people lie to minimize the health impacts. After I
complained, they are reducing that, but Friday night, one weather man here declared that "the sky is clear over Fresno.
It's great to have Friday night football back"! As he said this, the graphic by his shoulder said that the air was "hazy" that
night. The people having teens play football on such a night should be prosecuted and the station should lose its
broadcast license.

    So there are a few suggestions I have, without really trying hard to develop solutions. But develop and implement
them we will, or the Central Valley of California will become unfit for human habitation.

      BTW, KCBS reported this AM that the "Ferguson fire" in Mariposa Co. in and near Yosemite is now fully contained.
It raged for over a month, burned 150 square miles of forest, and filled the Central Valley with dangerous wildfire smoke
for that entire time. And that is just ONE of the 18 or so serious wildfires that have raged for over a month in California.
The "Car fire" near Redding Calif. has been huge, destroyed over 1,000 homes, and is probably still burning. The
"Mendocino Complex fire" in Lake, Mendocino and other counties has been the biggest wildfire in California history.
Home values, insurance premiums? They will go in opposite directions as this continues. We need leadership in
government to address this crisis. All I have seen so far is a little bit of desultory hand‐wringing.

                                                              4
      L. William Harding
      Fresno



‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Tue, Aug 14, 2018 at 2:34 AM
Subject: Fwd: State Ins. Commissioner warns again re higher ins. costs from fires
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>, Doug Vagim <dvagim@gmail.com>, Dan Richard
<danrichard@mac.com>, Joel Stiner <jastiner@gmail.com>



‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Mon, Aug 13, 2018 at 11:43 AM
Subject: Fwd: State Ins. Commissioner warns again re higher ins. costs from fires
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>, Doug Vagim <dvagim@gmail.com>, dennisbalakian
<dennisbalakian@sbcglobal.net>, David Balakian <davidbalakian@sbcglobal.net>, Dan Richard <danrichard@mac.com>,
Joel Stiner <jastiner@gmail.com>



‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Mon, Aug 13, 2018 at 11:35 AM
Subject: Fwd: State Ins. Commissioner warns again re higher ins. costs from fires
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>



‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Mon, Aug 13, 2018 at 10:40 AM
Subject: State Ins. Commissioner warns again re higher ins. costs from fires
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>


     Here is a "good" review of the Calif. wildfires to date this year. October is the worst month.


    https://www.mercurynews.com/2018/07/10/why‐california‐fire‐season‐is‐off‐to‐worst‐start‐in‐10‐years/

    I was looking for a map showing "fire prone areas" of Calif. to see who will get the huge premium hikes. This does
not show it.


     Mon. August 13, 2018


                                                             5
    To all‐ Mighty KCBS SF, broadcasting the truth into the Central Valley, reported this morning that the Calif. State
Insurance Commissioner warns again now the following:

       Ins. Cos. may stop offering fire insurance for homes in fire prone areas of Calif. If they do offer it, it may cost
more. They may cancel policies for homes in fire‐prone areas. He said that this is not at a crisis level yet, but could get
there.

      https://www.thestate.com/news/business/article216586725.html

    I guess we have to nose around and see if our home(s) are in a fire prone area. If it is, you may be paying more for
coverage, if you can get it. Even if it is not, you may be paying more.

     I'd be surprised if this is reported on local TV in Fresno, since it could be bad for business.

     If Fresno City Hall plans to approve 50,000 new homes to the east getting near the trees, the homes may be un‐
insurable. City officials had better warn their developer friends. It would be wrong to take their money if the homes they
approve are uninsurable and therefore un‐salable.

    I won't spread this mail far and wide. We don't want to build in the expectation that we are all now ripe for big ins.
premium hikes.

     It would be interesting to see a map of Fresno County indicating where fire‐prone areas are and to know who drew
up the map. That last one is always important.

    And notice that, regarding the ins. companies recovering the $12 billion they are laying out just in the wine country
to homeowners there, they can't recover that from the rest of us in one year. State law (Prop 103) requires them to
screw the rest of us with higher premiums over several years. I wonder how the insurance industry convinced people in
Sacramento to make that the law.

      LH




                                                               6
Carnahan, David

From:                Alice Smith <alice.smith@gmail.com>
Sent:                Tuesday, August 28, 2018 11:04 AM
Subject:             Fwd: Tell Congress to Protect Our Right to Vote


We can all make this a priority. I would like to see our local and county government take pro‐active support.

4th Tuesday in September is the day: https://nationalvoterregistrationday.org/partner‐sign‐up/

Also, everyone can register to vote using www.turbovote.org which will by zip code give voters correct registration
information and links or forms to register to vote. Knowing that National Voter Registration day is coming up
‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
From: Chris Carson <advocacy@lwv.org>
Date: Tue, Aug 28, 2018 at 5:37 AM
Subject: Tell Congress to Protect Our Right to Vote
To: alice.smith@gmail.com




                                       Having trouble reading this email? View in browser




                        Empowering Voters. Defending Democracy.



                                   Demand Action to
                                  Protect Our Right to
                                          Vote


                                    SIGN OUR PETITION TODAY

                                                               1
Alice,

It’s been 53 years since the Voting Rights Act (VRA) was signed into law by
President Johnson. And it’s been five years since the U.S. Supreme Court
gutted essential provisions in the law in the decision of Shelby County v. Holder
that has led to countless attacks on the voting rights of Americans. Now is the
time to put those protections back in place.

Will you stand with us and tell Congress to protect our right to vote?

Since the decision in Shelby v. Holder, millions of voters have been purged from
the voter rolls across the country. Legislatures in states across the country have
also worked to establish institutional obstacles at the voting booth by placing
restrictions on early voting, minimizing polling locations in underrepresented
communities and mandating discriminatory voter photo ID requirements.

At the same time, special interest, dark money groups are pouring cash into our
elections, drowning out the voices of voters everywhere. They’re finding
candidates to elect who will push their shady agendas to threaten public health
and safety. And that’s not even scratching the surface of dark money’s influence:
Reproductive rights, gender equity, climate change, workers’ rights, health care
and more are all under attack.

Right now, we are working with our partners to recruit 100,000 activists to stand
up and demand Congress take action to protect every vote.

Congress must safeguard our elections: End gerrymandering, fix our campaign
finance system and prevent the corrupting influence of dark money groups. Our
future is at stake – and your voice is more important than ever before.

Demand action! Add your name to tell Congress to protect our right to vote!



                 SIGN OUR PETITION TODAY



Yours in the fight,




Chris Carson
President




                                         2
League of Women Voters
 1730 M Street NW, Suite 1000
    Washington, DC 20036
          Unsubscribe




              3
Carnahan, David

From:              Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com>
Sent:              Tuesday, August 28, 2018 10:00 AM
To:                gkirby@redwoodcity.org; dcbertini@menlopark.org; Jonsen, Robert; Binder, Andrew; Kilpatrick, Brad;
                   jrosen@da.sccgov.org; molly.o'neal@pdo.sccgov.org; stevendlee@alumni.duke.edu; HRC;
                   paloaltofreepress@gmail.com; council@redwoodcity.org; ibain@redwoodcity.org;
                   mdiaz@redwoodcity.org; Keene, James; myraw@smcba.org; michael.gennaco@oirgroup.com;
                   wilpf.peninsula.paloalto@gmail.com; chuckjagoda1@gmail.com; apardini@cityofepa.org;
                   citycouncil@menlopark.org; Van Der Zwaag, Minka; Constantino, Mary; Kniss, Liz (internal);
                   stephanie@dslextreme.com; Perron, Zachary; Lee, Craig; Kan, Michael; Council, City;
                   acisneros@capublicrecordslaw.com; allison@padailypost.com; emibach@padailypost.com
Subject:           Hundreds dead, no one charged: the uphill battle against Los Angeles police killings | US news | The
                   Guardian




https://www.theguardian.com/us‐news/2018/aug/24/los‐angeles‐police‐violence‐shootings‐african‐american


Hundreds dead, no one charged: the uphill
battle against Los Angeles police killings
The families of Grechario Mack and Kenneth Ross Jr, whose deaths
made few headlines, speak out: ‘They took a part of me’
Sam LevinFri 24 Aug 2018 04.00 EDT

Catherine Walker closed her eyes, pressed her hands over her ears, and tried to escape.

It’s been four months since Los Angeles police killed her son, Grechario Mack, whose death barely
made headlines, who did not become a viral hashtag. On a recent afternoon, the 59-year-old
mother wore pins with her son’s face and said she was ready to speak. But when the moment
came, she could hardly talk.

As relatives recounted the killing around her, she tried to shut out the words describing Mack’s
last moments. Eventually, she collapsed in her chair in anguish.

“I couldn’t save my baby,” she cried as someone held her. “When they took my son’s life, they
took a part of me.”

Police shot Mack, a 30-year-old father of two, in the middle of a mall on the afternoon of 10 April,
as he was holding a kitchen knife and having a mental health crisis. Less than 24 hours later,


                                                          1
officers arrived at a park and killed Kenneth Ross Jr, another black resident who struggled with
mental illness and was said to be fleeing when police shot him with a military-style rifle.

The two families, brought together by Black Lives Matter the day of Ross’s death, are now
channeling their grief into a fight for justice – taking on one of the country’s deadliest police
systems, where law enforcement killings of black mentally ill residents are so normalized,
families struggle to be heard. They face an uphill battle in the most secretive state in the US for
police misconduct, in a region where officers who shoot are never prosecuted.

“Mentally, I can’t even do nothing right now,” said Fouzia Almarou, Ross’s mother. “But I’m gonna
stay strong … I want to make sure my son is remembered.”

‘Police don’t have to care’




Catherine Walker holds an image of her son, Grechario Mack. Photograph: Dan Tuffs for the
Guardian

Police in America kill more people in days than other countries do in years, and Los Angeles law
enforcement has repeatedly led the US with its body count, according to The Counted, a Guardian
US project that tracked deaths at the hands of law enforcement.

From 2010 to 2014, police in LA county shot 375 people, about one person every five days. Black
residents make up 9% of the population, but represented 24% of deaths.

Across the US, the odds are stacked against families who look to courts for justice. Charges are
extremely rare and convictions even rarer, with the law widely protecting officers who claim they
feared for their lives. In LA, the odds of prosecution are effectively zero.

Since 2000, there have been no charges for the more than 1,500 shootings by police in the
county. Since the district attorney Jackie Lacey was elected in 2012, roughly 400 people have
been killed by on-duty officers or died in custody, according to Black Lives Matter LA. Lacey even
declined to file charges when the chief of the LA police department (LAPD) called for the
prosecution of one of his own officers.
                                                  2
“It really greenlights this type of behavior,” said Melina Abdullah, a BLM organizer in LA. “Police
don’t have to care about anybody’s life, especially if they’re black or brown or poor.”

Abdullah and other activists are part of the Justice Teams Network, which provides “rapid
response” after killings. They go to the scenes, interview witnesses, offer the family assistance
with press and funerals, and work to counter the police narratives.

On a recent afternoon, Abdullah took the Guardian to sites of police killings in south LA. One stop
was a quiet alley where three years earlier, LAPD officers had killed Redel Jones, a 30-year-old
woman who had a kitchen knife and was fleeing police.

Jones, who had struggled on and off with homelessness, loved web design, dancing, cartoon
shows, electronic music and rap and had a “brain that was always moving”, said Marcus Vaughn,
Jones’s husband, recounting their dream of traveling in a mobile home together.

Headlines, however, reduced her to a “suspect” wanted for a robbery. And two years later, Lacey,
the prosecutor, reduced her case to a statistic, clearing the policeman with her standard finding
of “lawful self-defense”. The district attorney’s office declined an interview request.

“They did not care about Redel. Her death was one less black person. How are you just gonna kill
a woman like she just meant nothing?” said Vaughn, adding that Jones was less than five feet tall
and had bipolar disorder and depression, but was not violent. “If she was a short little white
woman, they would’ve treated her with so much tenderness.”




Marcus Vaughn, the husband of Redel Jones, at a 2016 rally. Photograph: Amanda Lee Myers/AP

Abdullah said she felt an obligation to organize after each killing and a sense of relief when a day
passed without a death. Standing near the site of Jones’s killing, she was pained to see a
makeshift altar had disappeared and vowed to rebuild it.

Jones didn’t get justice, Abdullah said, but she is hoping her next cases could be different.

                                                  3
‘Your aim was to murder my child’
When Quintus Moore saw a TV report saying LAPD officers had shot someone inside the Baldwin
Hills Crenshaw mall, he said he felt sad a man had died for no good reason. Later, it dawned on
him that he hadn’t heard from his son since the day before.

After a series of frantic messages to each other, a visit to the mall and a call with the morgue, the
family discovered that their worst fears were true: Grechario Mack was the victim.

It was supposed to be a celebratory month for Mack. He had been released from prison on 5
April, five days before the killing, and the family had gathered for a “welcome home” party. Mack
had had mental health struggles and past run-ins with the law, and, according to his parents, he
was on new medication that was negatively affecting him.

Moore said his son had seemed agitated the morning of his death, and that he might have been
paranoid or anxious and holding the knife to feel safe.




Redel Jones with her daughter, Sicare. Photograph: Courtesy of Marcus Vaughn

The LAPD’s report said Mack appeared to be having a “mental health crisis” and was
“aggressively waving a long knife”. Police alleged he ignored commands and “ran in the direction”
of patrons, leading to the shooting. Two officers fired at him, according to one report.



                                                  4
Abdullah, the BLM organizer, rushed to the mall, located in a black neighborhood and just a few
blocks from Redel Jones’s killing. She said mall employees told her that Mack had been talking to
himself and seemed unwell, but was not attacking anyone.

One employee of a nearby store, who declined to give her name, told the Guardian she walked
within 10ft of Mack, who did not scare her: “He was just standing there … It wasn’t such a big
knife.”

Blurry videos from witnesses captured heavily armed officers surrounding Mack and firing a
handful of loud shots. Screams echoed throughout the mall as shoppers ducked for cover and ran.
When investigators arrived, he was surrounded by shattered glass.

The county’s autopsy said Mack suffered at least five gunshot wounds, including one in his back
just below his head.

“It’s like they got some kind of mandate to kill our black young men,” said Moore, who wears his
son’s ashes in a pendant around his neck.

Mack’s mother compared the killing to a lynching: “They only went from the noose to the gun …
Who gives them the right to be the executioner and the judge?”

Abdullah helped Mack’s family organize a vigil. There, she met Fouzia Almarou, who had more
bad news: police had just shot and killed her son, Kenneth Ross, in a park 10 miles south of the
mall, one day after Mack’s killing.




Kenneth Ross with his brother Zion. Photograph: Courtesy of Fouzia Almarou

Police have provided few details about the killing in the LA suburb of Gardena. Lt Steve
Prendergast told the Guardian that officers were responding to calls of shots fired and ended up
chasing Ross, 25, whom they considered a suspect and was “running away from the scene”.




                                                 5
Prendergast said there was a “gun found at the scene”, but he couldn’t say whether Ross owned it
or had pointed it. One police report said Ross briefly hid in a bathroom and that police shot him
with an AR-15 rifle after he exited. That report said the gun had been in his pocket.

The county’s official autopsy said he was shot multiple times, including in the back.

Almarou said her son, who leaves behind seven younger siblings and a four-year-old son, had
bipolar disorder and schizophreniabut was well known to local residents as harmless.

“Why did they shoot him in the back?” she said. “Your aim was to murder my child.”

At the vigil, Almarou ended up finding somecomfort from Mack’s family, who later donated
money to Ross’s funeral.

‘We can’t treat mental illness with murder’
California is considered the strictest state in the US for police confidentiality, with policies that
have kept misconduct records hidden and, critics say, created a culture that condones excessive
force.

“It allows the most abusive officers to continue to operate,” said George Galvis, executive director
of Communities United for Restorative Youth Justice, which co-sponsored legislation to increase
transparency. Another bill would stipulate that police could only use deadly force when
“necessary”, instead of the current “reasonable” standard. The move, he said, would encourage
police to treat people of color the way they often respond to white suspects – de-escalate the
situation and work to keep them alive.

LAPD has adopted policies meant to encourage police to defuse tense situations, but critics say
the reforms aren’t working and aren’t enough.

“We can’t treat mental illness with murder,” said Tabatha Jones Jolivet, another BLM organizer.

Amid calls for prosecution and legislation, it can be hard for families to keep the spotlight on
their loved ones’ lives when their story becomes their death.




                                                   6
Fouzia Almarou, who son, Kenneth Ross, was shot by police. Photograph: Dan Tuffs for the
Guardian

Mack, known as Chario, was an honor roll student who graduated high school early, his mother
said. He loved to fish and was fiercely protective of family. His nine-year-old daughter wrote a
tribute saying she would miss piggyback rides and museum trips, adding: “I know that you’re
always in my heart.”

Arianna Moore, Mack’s sister, said her brother motivated her to be courageous: “He would tell
me, ‘You could do anything you put your mind to.’”

Vaughn, Redel Jones’s husband, said he and their children sometimes struggled to remember
what her voice sounded like. His nine-year-old daughter often wakes in the middle of the night
shaking after a nightmare watching her mother die. She fears the police.

Ross, an avid skateboarder, was so generous, his mother recalled, that as a child he gave his
allowance money to homeless people: “His heart was amazing.”

Ross’s mother said she was a survivor of domestic violence and that her son took care of her.

When times were tough, she said, her son offered the same message of comfort: “You’ll always
have me to take care of you.”

Since you’re here…
… we have a small favour to ask. More people are reading the Guardian’s independent,
investigative journalism than ever but advertising revenues across the media are falling fast. And
unlike many news organisations, we haven’t put up a paywall – we want to keep our journalism
as open as we can. So you can see why we need to ask for your help.

The Guardian is editorially independent, meaning we set our own agenda. Our journalism is free
from commercial bias and not influenced by billionaire owners, politicians or shareholders. No
one edits our Editor. No one steers our opinion. This is important because it enables us to give a
                                                 7
voice to the voiceless, challenge the powerful and hold them to account. It’s what makes us
different to so many others in the media, at a time when factual, honest reporting is critical. The
Guardian’s investigative journalism uncovers unethical behaviour and social injustice, and has
brought vital stories to public attention; from Cambridge Analytica, to the Windrush scandal to
the Paradise Papers.

If everyone who reads our reporting, who likes it, helps to support it, our future would be much
more secure. For as little as $1, you can support the Guardian – and it only takes a minute.
Thank you.



Sent from my iPhone




                                                  8
Carnahan, David

From:              Carl D <cdarling@sbcglobal.net>
Sent:              Sunday, August 26, 2018 7:01 PM
To:                Council, City
Subject:           I also witnessed the accident at Ross road. I agree with the Change.org statement by George
                   Jaquette. It may be too late to stop this Ross Road project but it should not continue on other
                   streets.




Sent from Mail for Windows 10




                                                          1
Carnahan, David

From:              Sandra Varga <varga.rentals@gmail.com>
Sent:              Monday, August 27, 2018 4:29 PM
To:                Council, City
Subject:           just cause and housing payments


PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE.

THE COST OF DOING BUSINESS IS SKYROCKETING IN THE BAY AREA. DO NOT TIE THE HANDS THAT PROVIDE HOUSING.

WE LANDLORDS NOT ONLY HAVE HIGH OPERATING EXPENSES BUT TREMENDOUS LIABILITY.

WE ARE NOT WELFARE PROVIDERS. WE PROVIDE HOUSING . DO NOT DETER OWNERS FROM CONSTANTLY IMPROVING
THE RENTAL UNITS. WE WILL HAVE TO CUT CORNERS AND YOU MAY SEE BLIGHTED BUILDINGS.

SANDRA VARGA
IN THE BUSINESS 40 YRS




                                                      1
Carnahan, David

From:                Joe Meyers <jrameyers@yahoo.com>
Sent:                Saturday, August 25, 2018 12:47 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Announcements to Daily Post vs. PA Weekly


Dear City Council Members,

Changing your meeting announcements from the PA Weekly to the Daily Post is penny wise and pound foolish--plus it's
hard to believe that a council that will commission very expensive studies at the drop of a hat is penny-pinching on
announcements significant to citizens that the Daily Post scarcely reaches. Besides that, independent journalism is more
important now than at any other time in living memory. Please reconsider your decision to change.

Thank you,
Joe Meyers
Downtown North




                                                            1
Carnahan, David

From:             Jen Fryhling <jfryhling@gmail.com>
Sent:             Saturday, August 25, 2018 12:27 PM
To:               Council, City
Subject:          Communications



Dear City Council Members:

Please continue to publish the City's meeting notices and agendas in the Palo Alto
Weekly.

My tax dollars to the City should be spent on just that - keeping 67,000 residents of Palo
Alto informed. The Daily doesn't deliver to my home nor is there free online access like the
Weekly.

As two working parents with kids in Palo Alto schools, the City needs to keep up with the
pace of life here and not regress to the dark ages. Palo Alto families need convenience
(i.e., Weekly’s free home delivery and online access). There's a reason why mobile gas
service, ride sharing, Insta-cart, Amazon, Google Express, etc. are so popular because
we need convenience and easy access in Palo Alto.

By comparison, many tech companies provide multiple platforms to communicate and
reach people and employees. The fact that the City is actually withdrawing a major
platform of communication to residents for a measly $20K savings would be a career
ending idea in most companies. Why should we accept grossly lower standards in the
City?

Please keep up with your constituency and focus on proposals to increase
communications, visibility, and openness with Palo Alto residents rather than less.
Continue to publish the City's meeting notices and agendas in the Palo Alto Weekly.

Regards,
Jennifer Fryhling




                                                       2
Carnahan, David

From:                Susan Thomas <sthomas210@comcast.net>
Sent:                Saturday, August 25, 2018 12:24 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Notices and Information in Palo Alto Weekly


PLEASE do not stop putting city notices and other information in the Palo Alto Weekly. Many of us do not ever look at
the Post and rely on the Palo Alto Weekly, which is delivered to our homes, as a source of this information. Because the
circulation of the Palo Alto Weekly is so much greater than that of the Post, the City’s move seems almost like a plot to
minimize informing the public.

Susan Stuermer Thomas
John Nichols Thomas


Sent from my iPad




                                                            3
Carnahan, David

From:                Roy Levin <roy@levin.net>
Sent:                Saturday, August 25, 2018 11:38 AM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Please continue to publish agendas and notices in the Palo Alto Weekly


Dear City Council,

The decision to shift publication of City Council agendas and public notices away from the Palo Alto Weekly is penny‐
wise and pound‐foolish. Surely the savings of $20,000 is negligible in the City’s budget, yet the consequences of moving
this material are far costlier: a less informed and less engaged citizenry.

If this was truly a decision taken by the City Clerk, as has been reported, then it should be a simple matter for the
Council to overrule it. If, however, the Council itself took this action, then I’m forced to conclude that, by changing to a
publication (the Daily Post) that is distributed much more narrowly than the Weekly, the Council is seeking to reduce
communication with Palo Alto residents. Or, to put it another way, the Council values that communication at less than
$20,000, which is approximately the cost of two first‐class mailings to each household in Palo Alto per year. Surely that
is a small price to pay to keep residents informed of the Council’s plans and actions.

Government works best when the governed are engaged with their chosen leaders, however annoying that may
occasionally be to those leaders. Avoiding engagement, which is an inevitable result of this decision, isolates leaders
from those whose interests they were elected to represent. Ultimately, those leaders, their constituents, and the entire
city lose.

This short‐sighted action will erode further erode confidence in the Council at a time when precisely the opposite is
needed. Please countermand this decision swiftly.

Sincerely,

Roy Levin
810 Garland Drive
Palo Alto




                                                              4
Carnahan, David

From:                Jane David <007janelisa@gmail.com>
Sent:                Saturday, August 25, 2018 10:59 AM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             dropping PA Weekly notices slap in the face to residents


Dear Council Member,

The staff decision to choose the less expensive paper for publishing notices to save a few bucks at the expense of
reaching many more residents is a slap in the face to us. We have lived in Palo Alto for decades and see increasing
distance between those who run city government and its citizens. This is one more example of saving pennies over
valuing broader communication.

Please take charge of revisiting this consequential decision.

Thank you for your attention,

Jane L. David
3144 David Ave
Palo Alto

Sent from my iPad




                                                                5
Carnahan, David

From:                Sue Purdy Pelosi <sueppr@gmail.com>
Sent:                Saturday, August 25, 2018 10:48 AM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Please reconsider pulling the council meeting notices from the weekly


I feel strongly that in these days of challenges to our Democracy, concern about a modest budget item should not
remove an important and established method to alert our citizens to our local city meetings.

Thank you

Sue

Sue Purdy ☮ Pelosi

Be kind whenever possible. It is always possible.
Dalai Lama


https://www.linkedin.com/in/suepurdypelosi/




                                                           6
Carnahan, David

From:             Alfred Sugarman <asugarma@ix.netcom.com>
Sent:             Saturday, August 25, 2018 10:43 AM
To:               Council, City
Subject:          Discontinuance Of Publishing Palo Alto's Meeting Notice and Agenda Ads in the Palo Alto Weekly



Dear Sir/Madam,
I am a Palo Alto resident and have the Palo Alto Weekly delivered to my house. When I receive it I
look forward to reading the city’s agendas of upcoming City Council, planning commission and other
city meetings.

Please do not discontinue this advertising and leave it in the Palo Alto Weekly.

Alfred
650 799 4564 Cell
alfred.sugarman Skype
509 757 6351 Fax
650 858 8081 Home




                                                       7
Carnahan, David

From:                 Gloria Pyszka <gpyszka@yahoo.com>
Sent:                 Saturday, August 25, 2018 8:48 AM
To:                   Council, City
Cc:                   Bill Johnson; Palo Alto Weekly
Subject:              Notice ending ciy meeting notices in the PA Weekly


This decision is ill-conceived. We who subscribe to the PA Weekly,
or pick iit free at the boxes, want to know when the upcoming city meetings will be held. We don't read the Post as much.
You've really got to be living under a rock (sorry, not nice) not to recognize how important the Weekly is to the population.
I'm truly surprised at the several incredibly bad opinions that have been reported by the city council or a specific
member.
Making a decison that might result in fewer residents attending the council meetings has many negative connotations, all
of which
make you look as if you are oblivious to your voters.

Gloria Pyszka
284 East Charleston
Palo Alto




                                                              8
Carnahan, David

From:                 David Greene <0524dg@gmail.com>
Sent:                 Friday, August 24, 2018 11:24 PM
To:                   Council, City
Subject:              City Clerk Beth Minor


Dear Council Member,

Beth Minor’s decision to stop publishing meeting notices in the Weekly will save the city about $20,000 in expenses. But
it is penny‐wise and pound‐foolish.

The Weekly distributes 20,600 copies in Palo Alto, including 14,000 delivered to Palo Alto homes, including mine. The
proposed new contractor, the Daily Post, distributes 6,000 copies with no distribution directly to homes. On a per‐copy
basis, the cost of publishing in the weekly is actually lower than that of the Post. Isn’t the goal of publishing these notices
to reach as many people as possible? I won’t get to see them if they’re not published in the Weekly. Nor will thousands
of other Palo Altans.

The Council should re‐affirm the civic purpose of publishing notices and assert its authority to contract the work to the
vendor who can reach the largest audience cost‐effectively. Leaving this decision as it is, is doing the public a significant
disservice!

David Greene
3144 David Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94303




                                                              9
Carnahan, David

From:                Cheryl Lilienstein <clilienstein@me.com>
Sent:                Friday, August 24, 2018 10:40 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Please fix this: The Palo Alto Weekly should be the paper for city announcements


Dear City Council,
Why eliminate the Palo Alto Weekly as the city’s public announcement platform? You all know the Palo Alto Weekly has
the broadest reach to residents of Palo Alto as a completely local paper with city‐wide distribution, and it’s your
responsibility to communicate agendas and notifications with as many citizens as possible. The city manager should not
have made this wrong decision, and you need to fix this.

You have often said you want the public to be informed and engaged, yet how are we to know what is happening if this
public notification option is eliminated? Do you expect us to seek information on the city website, looking for
notifications? Or go somewhere to pick up the Daily News that is more regional than local? This makes no sense. And,
$20,000 is less than a drop in the bucket — yet money well spent— compared pretty much any other expenditure.

Please continue the longstanding tradition of having the Palo Alto Weekly supply local information we residents need to
participate.

Sincerely,
Cheryl Lilienstein

https://www.paloaltoonline.com/news/2018/08/24/city‐to‐stop‐publishing‐meeting‐notices‐in‐weekly‐citing‐cost‐
savings?utm_source=Support+Local+Journalism+Subscribers+%28segmented%29&utm_campaign=075cac606a‐
EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2017_09_05_COPY_01&utm_medium=email&utm_term=0_da52da7593‐075cac606a‐111987821




                                                           10
Carnahan, David

From:                Kerry <kerry.spear@gmail.com>
Sent:                Friday, August 24, 2018 8:25 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Don’t stop advertising in the Palo Alto Weekly




Saving $20k to stop advertising in the Weekly is silly! Where else does our community get the continuity of readership
and home town support other than the Weekly?

I haven't seen Palo Alto ads on NPR or in the NY Times‐ let’s support the PALO ALTO local paper. It’s a bargain.

Kerry Spear
370 Oxford Ave


Sent from my iPhone




                                                            11
Carnahan, David

From:               Kerry <kerry.spear@gmail.com>
Sent:               Friday, August 24, 2018 8:16 PM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            Keep publishing minutes in the PA Weekly


Do not stop publishing in the Weekly!
What are you thinking?

Kerry Spear
370 Oxford Ave
Palo Alto


Sent from my iPhone




                                                        12
Carnahan, David

From:                Finfrock Shirley <samfinf@comcast.net>
Sent:                Friday, August 24, 2018 8:14 PM
To:                  Council, City
Cc:                  Bill Johnson
Subject:             City Public Notices


I think it is very short sighted and being pennywise and pound foolish to save $20,000 to put public notices in the Daily
Post rather than the Palo Alto Weekly.

Why save $20,000 and not reach 30% of Palo Residents.

Shirley Finfrock
Barron Park
Long Time Resident since 1969




                                                            13
Carnahan, David

From:             Jo Ann Mandinach <joann@needtoknow.com>
Sent:             Friday, August 24, 2018 7:58 PM
To:               Council, City; Lydia Kou
Cc:               Tom DuBois; Holman, Karen (external); Filseth, Eric (external)
Subject:          Palo Ato needs to more informed, not less. Restore the $20K budget for meetings and agenda in the
                  PAW.



Hello.

I can't believe the city is cutting $20,000 to publicize its meeting
schedules and agendas just before an election ‐‐ and at a time when we
need to be more informed, not less.
Funny, you keep taking about the need for "community outreach" and
then you cut this?

$20,000 is a drop in the bucket compared to, say Zero Waste's never‐
ending ads tin every issue of every paper especially when PAU ran a
$19,500,000 surplus last year that comes out of our pockets. Cutting
those ads would make some economic and practical sense

Given all the wasteful spending in Palo Alto, I sincerely doubt this move is
motivated by your desire to be economical. Perhaps you don't like Palo
Alto Online's editorials? Perhaps you don't like all the taxpayers showing
up at CC and PTC meetings and questioning your decisions? Perhaps you
don't want voters to be informed?


Whatever your reasons, please see that this silly false economy stops
now and keep publishing the meeting notes and agendas in Palo Alto
Weekly,

Most sincerely,
                                                       14
‐‐
Jo Ann Mandinach
1699 Middlefield Road Palo Alto, CA 94301
JoAnn@needtoknow.com
650 269‐0650




                                  15
Carnahan, David

From:                 Norman Beamer <nhbeamer@yahoo.com>
Sent:                 Friday, August 24, 2018 6:40 PM
To:                   Council, City
Subject:              Fw: FYI: An important message from the Palo Alto Weekly




 Obviously, this stinks.
-----Forwarded Message-----
From: Bill Johnson
Sent: Aug 24, 2018 4:41 PM
To: sheri11@earthlink.net
Subject: An important message from the Palo Alto Weekly

96


                                                    View this email in your browser




             Dear Subscriber:


             I wanted to alert you to a disappointing decision by the Palo Alto City Clerk to discontinue publishing the
             city’s meeting notice and agenda ads in the Palo Alto Weekly.


             As our story in today’s paper explains, the city is planning on moving its advertising from the Weekly,
             which distributes 20,600 copies in Palo Alto, including 14,000 directly to homes, to the Daily Post, which
             circulates just 6,000 copies in the city through news boxes, with no distribution to homes. The stated
             reason is that this will save the city about $20,000 a year.



                                                                   16
The Weekly has been publishing the agendas and other notices for the City Council, planning commission
and other city boards for over 30 years, and the loss of this business is obviously of concern at a time
when local newspapers everywhere are facing significant financial challenges due to declines in retail
advertising. Little did we expect our own city government to contribute to this problem so it could save
$20,000.


But an even greater and more important impact of this change is its threat to a well-informed public. In a
community that prides itself on citizen engagement, it is illogical for the city to publish its advertising in a
paper that reaches 70% fewer people and doesn't deliver to a single Palo Alto home. And the loss of the
city's advertising means fewer resources available to continue the quality local journalism you expect from
us.


If you are so moved, we would invite you to communicate your thoughts to any City Council member you
may know, or the entire Council via the city.council@cityofpaloalto.org email. Obviously personal contact
is best. You could also post a comment on the story itself.


I don't know whether the Council can be persuaded to reverse this decision, but an expression by
concerned residents will certainly make it aware of how vital you believe city-resident communication is,
and the importance of the city supporting the community's newspaper.


Thanks, as always, for the support you already provide the Weekly through your subscription.


Sincerely,


Bill Johnson
Publisher




‐‐>




                                           Our mailing address is:
                                              Embarcadero Media
                                              450 Cambridge Ave




                                                        17
                 Palo Alto, CA 94306-1507


                Add us to your address book




      Want to change how you received these emails?
You can update your preferences or unsubscribe from this list




                             18
Carnahan, David

From:                 Alice Martineau <aamartineau@sbcglobal.net>
Sent:                 Friday, August 24, 2018 6:17 PM
To:                   Council, City
Subject:              Please keep City advertising with the Palo Alto Weekly


Dear Palo Alto City Council:

I am writing to urge you to reverse the city clerk’s recent decision to discontinue publishing the city’s meeting notices and
agenda ads in the Palo Alto Weekly. These very notices and ads need to be easily accessible in our local paper, with the widest
circulation, if you want to support an active and civically engaged populace in Palo Alto.

We need our independent press in these difficult times and I would hope to see Palo Alto’s city government continue its
support of the excellent Palo Alto Weekly!

Sincerely yours,

Alice Martineau




                                                              19
Carnahan, David

From:                 Karl Garcia <karlrob@gmail.com>
Sent:                 Friday, August 24, 2018 6:07 PM
To:                   Council, City
Cc:                   bjohnson@paweekly.com
Subject:              City's Notifications...


Dear Council,

I would like to register my extreme displeasure upon hearing that you will be discontinuing the publication of official City
Notices with the Palo Alto Weekly. The Weekly is the paper of record for Palo Alto and the City will be doing the
community and it's citizens a great dis‐service by not publishing in the Weekly. This is a really bad move.

I understand the announced motivation is a few tens of thousands of dollars savings.

In the City's budget of over 700 million dollars, this seems to me to be a small blip on the radar and certainly not worth
the loss of readily available information this will cause.

I urge you to reconsider this ill‐advised decision and restore publishing the City's notifications with the Weekly.


Karl Garcia
653 Waverley St
Palo Alto, CA 94301




                                                             20
Carnahan, David

From:             Paul Machado <plmachado@gmail.com>
Sent:             Friday, August 24, 2018 5:41 PM
To:               Council, City
Subject:          Horribly sad decision



To not place agendas and notices in the Palo Alto weekly is a horrible
decision. A strong free press is vital to us all. You should actually place
notices in both local papers as the purpose of the notices is to encourage
citizen participation in civic affairs not just meet minimal notification
requirements. The meager savings of $20,000 clearly sends the wrong
message!

Thank you
Paul Machado




                                                 21
Carnahan, David

From:             Cecilia Willer <cecilia_willer@yahoo.com>
Sent:             Friday, August 24, 2018 5:22 PM
To:               Council, City
Subject:          Disappointed that the City Council meeting notice & agenda is planned to no longer be in the PA
                  Weekly -- I NEVER read the Daily News and ALWAYS read the PA Weekly



City Council Members,

I am extremely disappointed that the City Council agenda and meeting notice is planned to no longer
be in the PA Weekly. I NEVER read the Daily News and ALWAYS read the PA Weekly. I contribute
to the PA Weekly monthly so that I can keep abreast of what is happening in Palo Alto. I do not go
down town and get the Daily News, given our work schedule. I find it very short sighted to make this
change. I realize budgets need to be cut, however making it more of a challenge to the community to
find out about council meetings and notices is not a helpful solution. One would wonder if the City
Council is interested in keeping the community in the dark versus being transparent and making
information readily available.

I encourage you to reconsider this plan. Keep the PA community informed.

Thanks and please make the right decision!
Cecilia & Brad Willer
1270 Byron Street
Palo Alto




                                                        22
Carnahan, David

From:                 Jim Fruchterman <Jim.F@Benetech.org>
Sent:                 Friday, August 24, 2018 5:14 PM
To:                   Council, City
Cc:                   Bill Johnson
Subject:              The City has enough communications problems with citizens and employers as it is


Dropping the Weekly, which many residents read, is crazy. I don’t read the Post. I do read the Weekly. And I do read
the city’s posted activities in the Weekly. It’s the main, and typically only, place I find out about what’s going on in city
government. And I’m not alone.

If you’re doing this to save $20k, I’m sure many residents like me can tell you don’t cut communications to us, cut far
more expensive and less helpful items.

Is reducing citizen engagement in city business a feature or a bug to the council and city staff? We have too much
suppression going on in the country as it is without Palo Alto jumping on the bandwagon.

Don’t do it. And if you do it, be sure you’ll hear a lot more from me on it.


Jim Fruchterman
1850 Middlefield Road, Palo Alto, CA 94301
Resident and employer of 50 people in Palo Alto.

Founder and CEO, Benetech
Email: jim@benetech.org

Twitter: @JimFruchterman
Blog: The Beneblog

480 S. California Ave, Suite 201
Palo Alto, CA 94306 USA
(650) 644‐3406
Fax: (650) 475‐1066
www.benetech.org
Benetech ‐ Technology Serving Humanity
A nonprofit organization




                                                              23
Carnahan, David

From:                Lisa Dondick Nissim <lisa.nissim@geminisols.com>
Sent:                Friday, August 24, 2018 5:14 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             City Agenda


Dear Council Members,

Please continue to publish meeting agendas and other official notices in the Palo Alto Weekly. I read the Weekly
because it is delivered directly to me. I do not have the opportunity to read the Post because there are no distribution
points near my home. I am distressed you are considering limiting my access to this information by removing it from the
Weekly.

Please reconsider your decision to limit access to this information by changing publications. Please respond directly to
this email to confirm you will continue to keep me and the rest of Palo Alto informed about what is happening in the city
by continuing to publish announcements in the Palo Alto Weekly.

Sincerely,

Lisa Nissim
1646 Escobita




                                                           24
Carnahan, David

From:               Julianne Frizzell <julianneasla@sonic.net>
Sent:               Friday, August 24, 2018 5:11 PM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            palo alto weekly


For the CPA council

I am disappointed to read that the CPA is planning on moving its advertising from the Palo Alto Weekly, to the
Daily Post. I have been reading the Weekly on a weekly basis (and more often when it was published as a
daily) for 25 years. I only see the Post at Sancho’s Taqueria and P.A. Blueprint! Far more CPA citizens see
and read the Weekly than the Post. I think that I am not alone in considering the P.A. Weekly Palo Alto’s news
paper.

Please reconsider this action

Thank you

Julianne Frizzell

Julianne Adams Frizzell

julianneasla@sonic.net

650-325-0905




                                                          25
Carnahan, David

From:                  charlalou@aol.com
Sent:                  Friday, August 24, 2018 5:07 PM
To:                    Council, City
Subject:               Posting Meeting Notices in PA Weekly


Please continue to post meeting notices and agenda ads in the Palo Alto Weekly and, if necesssry, please retain the ads
in the Palo Alto Weekly, and perhaps in the Daily Post also to provide even greater coverage.

I am disabled and receive the Palo Alto Weekly at my home but rarely can pick up the Daily Post. Recently I attended a
City Council meeting where my grand daughter and fellow Girl Scouts made a presentation regarding limiting the use of
plastic drinking straws.

Thank you for your consideration of this request.
           Sincerely yours,
               Charla W Ekstrand

Sent from AOL Mobile Mail
Get the new AOL app: mail.mobile.aol.com




                                                              26
Carnahan, David

From:              Linda Anderson <andersonlinda911@gmail.com>
Sent:              Friday, August 24, 2018 4:56 PM
To:                Council, City
Subject:           Published Agenda



It is my understanding you have decided to publish your meeting notices and agenda ads in the Daily Post as
opposed to the Palo Alto Weekly.

I'm inclined, in a sarcastic vein, to say good move. That is, if you want to govern an even less informed city
than you currently are. The circulation of the Daily Post is less than 1/3 of the Palo Alto Weekly.

Way to go.

Linda Anderson
401 Webster Street
Palo Alto




                                                        27
Carnahan, David

From:                 Ross DeHovitz <rossde@mac.com>
Sent:                 Friday, August 24, 2018 4:48 PM
To:                   Council, City
Subject:              This is crazy!


I would like to comment on the crazy decision to publish city notices in a paper that is not well read and not home
delivered.

The desire to save money is understandable but this falls in the pennywise and pound foolish department as the number
of people who will be aware of these city decisions and programs will drop precipitously.

If the goal is only to publish so that the fewest people are aware, this is the way to do it. If the goal is to keep the citizens
engaged, i would encourage the city to keep the contract with the most highly read paper in the city

Thanks so much

Ross DeHovitz




                                                               28
Carnahan, David

From:                Robert Lancefield <rklancefield@comcast.net>
Sent:                Friday, August 24, 2018 3:57 PM
To:                  Council, City
Cc:                  bjohnson@paweekly.com
Subject:             Please restore Palo Alto Weekly as source of agendas of upcoming City Council, planning
                     commission and other city meetings.


Dear Ms. Mayor and Members of the City Council,

Please restore, immediately, the Palo Alto Weekly as the source of agendas of the Council, Planning Commission and
other city agencies.

I read the Daily Post almost daily. I read the Post every week.

Their format, and depth of reporting are very different.

The Post has news stories on the front page and on one continuation page. I usually read only those two pages. The rest
is advertising that I skip. I can’t imagine the Post will give front page coverage to city agendas and notices. I’m not about
to look through every page of every Post, or to try to remember that city notices are regularly published the same day of
every week or month. Likely result: I’ll never know the agendas.

In contrast, the Weekly places the city agendas close to similar stories about city affairs, not buried in a middle part of
the paper next to real estate and want ads.

The Weekly doesn’t need to put the notices on its front page.

Members of the Council, I urge you to reverse the decision of Beth Minor.

If the City owes the Post money damages for breach of contract, so be it. The expense could be considered a cheap
tutorial for all concerned: the Council, Jim Keene and Ed Shikada, and the city staff, and residents like me.

Respectfully,

Robert K. Lancefield
189 Walter Hays Drive



Sent from my iPhone




                                                              29
Carnahan, David

From:                Laurie Hunter <lhunter353@aol.com>
Sent:                Saturday, August 25, 2018 7:59 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Palo Alto Weekly notices


As a citizen of Palo Alto I urge you to continue to post your notices in the Palo Alto Weekly so that all citizens are
informed!!! We need a free press to inform us of government matters!!!

Laurie Hunter
353 Lowell Ave
Palo Alto
650.380.0136

Sent from my iPhone




                                                              1
Carnahan, David

From:                david <lischins@pacbell.net>
Sent:                Saturday, August 25, 2018 6:44 PM
To:                  Council, City; editor@paloaltoweekly.com
Subject:             Penny wise and pound foolish


To the City Council members,

Your decision to save $20,000 by curtailing the publication of important information to your constituency seems
wrongheaded on two counts. While you may sometimes wish local citizens were less involved in decisions that affect our
well‐being, that involvement is a vital element in creating the kind of community were we all want to live. By cutting
back on public information to save money, you are also damaging a fragile but critical player in local democracy, the Palo
Alto Weekly. It is my go‐to newspaper for local news, particularly local government.

You should all read Time Magazine's lament for the loss of local reporting in its August6/13 edition. It highlights the
huge cutback in local reporting across the nation and its damaging effect. I will quote one line: "That newspapers are a
casualty of the Information Age may quality as irony, but there are deep veins of tragedy involved, especially for
communities that used to have a lot more people paid, by the local paper, to pay attention to what was happening
there.

As a former reporter for the San Jose Mercury News, the Wall Street Journal and National Public Radio, I have watched
with dismay as the career I devoted years to has been defunded, derided and enfeebled. I hope you realize that you're
supporting the agenda of people like our current president when you undermine one of the pillars of our democracy.

Yours Truly,

Dedra Hauser




                                                            2
Carnahan, David

From:                Lea Feinstein <leafeinstein@gmail.com>
Sent:                Saturday, August 25, 2018 6:40 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Keep the Weekly


Greater outreach. Support for local press. Please reconsider the decision to switch notification of council meetings from
the Weekly to the Post.
They both matter, but the Weekly is the people’s paper.
Thanks
Lea Feinstein


www.leafeinstein.com
650‐281‐5669




                                                            3
Carnahan, David

From:                Sylvia Gartner <sgartner@ix.netcom.com>
Sent:                Saturday, August 25, 2018 6:26 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Palo Alto Weekly


As a regular Palo Alto Weekly reader, especially of their wonderful Daily Express email service, I was very disturbed to
read Bill Johnson's email about your removing your ad business from the Weekly and moving it to the Daily Post.

This seems very odd to me. Why would you want to advertise in the smaller; and, in my opinion, less prestigious local
newspaper? I am a Weekly subscriber and support their excellent reporting on local issues.

Please revisit this bad move and return the City's ad business to the Weekly.

Sylvia Gartner
Moreno Avenue




                                                             4
Carnahan, David

From:                Jean Griffiths <j2ean2@pacbell.net>
Sent:                Saturday, August 25, 2018 6:03 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             PA Weekly vs PA Daily!


Palo Alto Weekly has a good point as they reach a larger section of the community than the PA Daily for public notices.
I realize $20K is $20K but it’s not going to bust the budget. Jean Griffiths. PA resident




                                                            5
Carnahan, David

From:                M Chalmers Smith <ntiviv@me.com>
Sent:                Saturday, August 25, 2018 5:54 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Publishing City Council notices


Please reverse your decision and instead continue to publish notices of upcoming City Council meetings in the Palo Alto
Weekly.

What a poor decision you made to move the notices to the Post.

I would like to hear your reasoning for the change. Saving a bit of money is not adequate, as far as I am concerned. You
need to reach the broadest demographic possible.

Thank you,
Meg Smith
315 Homer Ave #306
Palo Alto, CA 94301




                                                            6
Carnahan, David

From:             Pat Bartz <pabartz9@ix.netcom.com>
Sent:             Saturday, August 25, 2018 5:40 PM
To:               Council, City
Cc:               Pat
Subject:          your decision to save 20K by unsavory action

Importance:       High



Hello: I have lived in Palo Alto for 40 years and find that the city management, if that’s what you call it
anymore, has deteriorated significantly. I strongly suggest that you, the Palo Alto City Clerk, negate
your recent decision to save $20,000 by publishing City agendas and other notices for the City
Council in the Daily Post, which has no local delivery. What a sham!! Certainly there are more
acceptable ways to the public, who fund city activities, to save this small amount of money than by
switching advertising publications.


Patricia Bartz
713 Oregon Avenue




                                                        7
Carnahan, David

From:                Rayme Adzema <raymejareau@gmail.com>
Sent:                Saturday, August 25, 2018 5:34 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Palo Alto Weekly


Please do not take revenue away from the Palo Alto Weekly by posting city agendas and other items in the Daily Post.
The Weekly is the paper of record in Palo Alto, contains actual local journalism and should be supported by the city and
its taxpayers.

Thank You,
Rayme Waters
1280 Pine Street, Palo Alto

Sent from my iPhone




                                                            8
Carnahan, David

From:               Susan Wolfe <wolfeperson@gmail.com>
Sent:               Saturday, August 25, 2018 5:35 PM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            Publish agenda and meeting notices in the Palo Alto Weekly


Please change your mind about this immediately. The Post is just not a respected or widely distributed paper. And the
Palo Alto Weekly is a good paper that deserves the City’s support.

Thank you.

Susan Wolfe
350 Campesino Avenue

Sent from my iPhone




                                                           9
Carnahan, David

From:                      Rafe Mazzeo <rmazzeo@stanford.edu>
Sent:                      Saturday, August 25, 2018 5:32 PM
To:                        Council, City


To the City Council,

I am writing to protest your recent decision to move your meeting notice and
agenda ads from the Palo Alto Weekly to the Daily Post.
I do not think this makes sense: the Weekly reaches over three times
the number of homes and plays a MUCH more important role in the civic
life of this town. I always read the Weekly and find much that is useful in
there. The Post is pretty invisible as far as I and many others are concerned.
I am sure you are as aware as I of how much on the edge any print news
service is, and a $20K difference is surely nontrivial to them.

I hope you will reconsider. You are doing the city genuine long‐term damage by
this action.

Rafe Mazzeo

+‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐+


Professor Rafe Mazzeo     Office phone: 650‐723‐1894
Department of Mathematics         Mobile: 650‐714‐5718
Stanford University
Stanford, CA 94305        http://math.stanford.edu/~mazzeo




                                                                             10
Carnahan, David

From:                Lorraine Menuz <lmenuz@yahoo.com>
Sent:                Saturday, August 25, 2018 4:31 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             The Palo Alto weekly




I find it quite upsetting that the council continues to make decisions not in the best interest of Palo Alto residents. Now
you are set to discontinue posting council agendas in The Weekly. I and many other subscribers want to be able to
access that information in the paper. I hope you will reconsider your decision.
Lorraine Menuz


Sent from my iPhone




                                                             11
Carnahan, David

From:                Elzabeth Weiss <paneurhythmy@yahoo.com>
Sent:                Saturday, August 25, 2018 4:07 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             The importance of The Weekly


Dear Council Members,
As a 30+ year resident of Palo Alto (who, by the way, has never written a letter to any government body), I would like to
weigh in on your purported decision to stop posting Council and Committee meeting times, agendas, etc., in The
Weekly and change to some other publication. While of course I do not know the reasons for this decision, I would like
to point out to you that The Weekly is a high quality and widely read paper that I almost always take the time to a least
scan. The other paper is not even on my radar. In my opinion, Palo Alto's citizenry will be far less well‐informed as a
result of this action ‐‐ so unless that is what you are trying to achieve, this strikes me as a bad decision which I would
urge you to reconsider.
Thank you for your attention.
Respectfully,
Elizabeth Weiss




                                                            12
Carnahan, David

From:                Betty Lum <bylum@pacbell.net>
Sent:                Saturday, August 25, 2018 4:04 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             CITY CLERK'S DECISION



Dear Honorable City Council Members,

Perhaps because I grew up in a small town in Hawaii where local journalism was
considered very important, and a routine part of our lives, I have always believed in,
and supported it whenever possible. I have been a paid subscriber of the Palo Alto
Weekly since its inception, and was deeply disappointed to learn recently that our City
Clerk has decided to discontinue publishing the city's meeting notices and agenda ads in
the Weekly, using instead, the Post, which is not widely circulated. It is very difficult to
get The Post daily as it is not distributed to homes; being available only in news boxes
around the city. There have been MANY TIMES when the boxes in South Palo Alto areas
have been empty by mid-morning (around 10 - 11 a.m.), and we have had to go
without the Post. I can obtain the agendas and meeting notices as well as the Daily Post
online, but there are many in the city who either have no access to computers, or do not
have the ability to access the information online.

I'm sure many citizens would appreciate it if the City Clerk will re-consider the online
distribution of city meeting notices and agendas. Could this possibly be a request from
Council to the City Clerk? Thank you very much.

Betty Lum
4202 Suzanne Drive
650-493-6876




wanted to alert you to a disappointing decision by the Palo Alto City Clerk to discontinue publishing the city’s meeting
notice and agenda ads in the Palo Alto Weekly.




                                                           13
Carnahan, David

From:                 Clay Lambert <clay_lambert@sbcglobal.net>
Sent:                 Saturday, August 25, 2018 3:18 PM
To:                   Clerk, City; Council, City
Subject:              Poor decision to change public notices


Ms. Minor, Ms. Kniss and distinguished members of council,

I read with interest in the Palo Alto Weekly that you have decided to switch from publishing agendas in the Palo Alto
Weekly to the Daily Post. This decision may have been pennywise, but it was certainly pound foolish.

As you know, the PA Weekly is the more widely read of the two and far more widely read and respected by actual
residents of Palo Alto — you know, the people who would be most interested in all those government meetings. The goal
of publication, I presume, is to increase civic engagement. That goal is priceless and I simply can't believe that you would
thwart it for $20,000 a year. I presume there is something else going on here.

It is also germaine to note that local journalism is imperiled here and elsewhere. Trump tariffs are raising the cost of
newsprint on the order of 30 percent overnight. While we often hear how difficult it is for public servants like policemen
and teachers to live on the peninsula, almost all of them make more than Palo Alto Weekly reporters. The Palo Alto
Weekly is among the most respected local newspapers in the state and there are vanishingly few like it across the fruited
plain. As busy as i am, if not for the weekly newspaper and it's in depth reporting about local institutions, I would know
almost nothing about my community. As a public service, you should be supporting such an institution rather than
subverting it. (With due respect, the Daily Post is nothing like the Weekly, as you well know. I've lived here for 16 years
and I've never heard one of my neighbors reference it. It's meant for commuters and people hanging out in coffee shops
who, by and large, don't pay your salaries.)

Furthermore, I'm deeply disturbed by the thought that you didn't return phone calls seeking comment. It's as much my
money we're talking about as yours, and I think all of us deserve an explanation.

Sorry to be so fired up about this.

Respectfully,

Clay Lambert
3696 Bryant St.
Palo Alto




                                                             14
Carnahan, David

From:               Jeanne Kennedy <jeanne.kennedy@comcast.net>
Sent:               Saturday, August 25, 2018 1:54 PM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            Removing your advertising from the Palo Alto Weekly


Dear City Council members,

I hope you will reconsider and continue to support the Palo Alto Weekly. Any city would be proud to have a weekly
paper that is as distinguished as ours. It deserves your support as well as ours.

Sincerely,

Jeanne D. Kennedy
680 Lowell Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94301‐3817
650‐325‐0177
cell: 650‐868‐3125
jeanne.kennedy@comcast.net




                                                          15
Carnahan, David

From:                Kaye Storm <kayestorm@gmail.com>
Sent:                Sunday, August 26, 2018 7:53 AM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Don't stop publishing in the Palo Alto Weekly


I’m writing to express my disappointment that the city plans to stop publicizing agendas and notices for the City Council,
planning commission and other city boards in the Palo Alto Weekly. This smacks of a desire to reduce transparency
rather than encourage it. Of all the silly and unnecessary expenses approved by the city (not the least of which was the
road “drainage project” a few years ago in Southgate, my neighborhood) surely the $20,000 in annual savings could be
achieved by cutting other more frivolous items from the budget. I consider the Daily Post just an annoyance and would
never make an effort to pick up or read a copy. I suspect many Palo Alto residents have the same opinion. So if the City is
really interested in citizen engagement, continuing to publish in the Weekly is a no‐brainer.

Kaye Storm
kayestorm@gmail.com
650.326.4800




                                                             1
Carnahan, David

From:                Jeffrey Brown <jbrownconnect@aol.com>
Sent:                Saturday, August 25, 2018 10:55 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Meeting notices


Please explain the reason for discontinuing publication of meeting notices and agendas for council and commission
meetings in the Weekly. I do not want them delivered electronically and I never see or read the Post. I will therefore be
out of the loop which may be the reason for this move. Is an ill‐informed public worth the meager savings you will
realize? Poor choice. No transparency.
Jeffrey Brown

Sent from my iPhone




                                                            2
Carnahan, David

From:             D Martell <dmpaloalto@gmail.com>
Sent:             Saturday, August 25, 2018 9:51 PM
To:               Council, City
Cc:               Bill Johnson; Jay Thorwaldson
Subject:          Just say."NO" to penal enlargement!! No new police station!!!!!




                                                         3
4
Carnahan, David

From:                Margaret Heath <maggi650@gmail.com>
Sent:                Sunday, August 26, 2018 2:43 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             City Announcements


Dear Council Members,

I was completely taken aback at the decision to switch announcements of public city meetings from the Palo Weekly to
the Daily Post. The advantage of the Palo Alto Weekly is that it reaches all Palo Alto households and is also available in
the kiosks all week.

This proposed switch violates the spirit of transparency that is understood by the requirement that these city
announcements be placed in print.
The Daily Post is a much smaller publication with limited distribution. In addition, there is no way of knowing how many
of those readers are even Palo Alto residents. Finding a Daily Post is unreliable, a very hit or miss affair. After mid‐late
afternoon most kiosks are empty. Those who commute out of town may not easily pick one up in the morning. Other
people may not have a kiosk nearby, or do not run errands every day.

I trust that the council will take action to continue to publish announcements of public city meetings in the Palo Alto
Weekly. Or better still, and for even greater transparency, have the announcements placed in both papers.

Sincerely,
Margaret Heath




                                                              1
Carnahan, David

From:                julie <julie@kaufmann-lloyd.com>
Sent:                Sunday, August 26, 2018 2:34 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             City council agendas


Switching the publication of the city council agendas to a newspaper with a circulation of just 6,000 is a disservice to the
residents of Palo Alto.
Please reconsider.
Sincerely,
Julie Lloyd
Barron Park

Sent from my phone. Please excuse my typos.




                                                             2
Carnahan, David

From:                 cindy goral <cindy@goral.org>
Sent:                 Sunday, August 26, 2018 1:24 PM
To:                   Council, City
Subject:              reconsider putting public notices in Palo Alto Weekly


Dear Honorable Council Members,

I recently read that the Palo Alto City Council is going to stop putting public notices in the Palo Alto Weekly and
only publish in the Daily Post. I understand that it will save $20,000. However, the Palo Alto Weekly reaches a lot
more citizens in Palo Alto. It distributed over 20,000 copies including 14,000 directly to homes, whereas the Daily
post distributes only about 6000 copies with zero home distribution.

It is important that people in Palo Alto are kept aware of the city's public notices. The average age of Palo Alto voters is
over 60 years old. We have many citizens who rely on home delivery of their news to keep them informed of what is
going on. I urge you to reconsider your decision and continue to publish in the Palo Alto Weekly.

Cindy Goral
4018 Laguna Way
Palo Alto, CA 94306




                                                              3
Carnahan, David

From:                Melanie Cross <melaniecross@earthlink.net>
Sent:                Sunday, August 26, 2018 1:19 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Public Notification




Dear City Council Members,

I am writing to request that you continue publicizing agendas and other notices for the city in the P.A. Weekly as more of
us read that publication than the alternative paper. Please try to be more inclusive, rather than cut down on informing
the public. $20,000 is part of the cost of doing city business. If we can’t afford that, then let’s figure to a cheaper way to
maintain the same level of publicity.

Thank you,
Melanie Cross
945 Matadero ave
Palo Alto CA 94306




                                                              4
Carnahan, David

From:              Peter Mueller <pklausm@me.com>
Sent:              Sunday, August 26, 2018 1:09 PM
To:                Council, City
Subject:           Fwd: [bpa-issues: 1654] Re: [bpa-misc: 7886] [Fwd: PA Weekly Publisher's article. --Do you know
                   about this?]


Begin forwarded message:

       From: Winter Dellenbach <wintergery@earthlink.net>
       Date: August 26, 2018 at 10:29:11 PDT
       To: bpa‐issues@googlegroups.com
       Subject: Re: [bpa‐issues: 1654] Re: [bpa‐misc: 7886] [Fwd: PA Weekly Publisher's article. ‐‐Do you
       know about this?]
       Reply‐To: bpa‐issues@googlegroups.com

       I hope everyone is passing on their comments to the City Council and not just keeping this an internal
       discussion ‐ that won't help. Let's all tell them.
       winter
       Here is the City Council email address: City Council <city.council@cityofpaloalto.org>

       On Aug 26, 2018, at 9:35 AM, Luce, Gwen wrote:



               Ditto!


               Sent from my iPhone


                        On Aug 26, 2018, at 9:19 AM, 'Peter Mueller' via Barron Park
                        Association: Issues <bpa‐issues@googlegroups.com> wrote:


                        My spouse & I concur w Nancy. We hardly ever read the “Post”,
                        although you they do a good job, and we see the Weekly delivered to
                        our house routinely. City cost considerations are important. So thinking
                        & factors underlying the current decision deserve public discussion. For
                        instance, why not both? Consider cost per taxpayer, and cost/citizen
                        interacting w city government in which paper published agenda played
                        a role or other benefit factors.
                        The paper owners should also assess the value of the city government
                        agendas to their advertisers and to the revenues from their readers, etc.
                        Thanks, Peter K Mueller


                                On Aug 25, 2018, at 21:36, njh
                                <njpersonal@gmail.com> wrote:


                                                            5
Dear Lydia Kou,


I want to write a response, but need to know if the city
council voted on this change or if the mayor decided it.
It's outrageous ‐‐ so much for transparent government!
(The responses on Nextdoor.com are interesting)
Nancy


Here's the PA Weekly Publisher's article:


An important letter from Palo Alto Weekly Publisher Bill
Johnson


I wanted to alert you to a disappointing decision by the
Palo Alto City Clerk to discontinue publishing the city’s
meeting notice and agenda ads in the Palo Alto Weekly.


As our story in today’s paper explains, the city is
planning on moving its advertising from the Weekly,
which distributes 20,600 copies in Palo Alto, including
14,000 directly to homes, to the Daily Post, which
circulates just 6,000 copies in the city through news
boxes, with no distribution to homes. The stated reason
is that this will save the city about $20,000 a year.


The Weekly has been publishing the agendas and other
notices for the City Council, planning commission and
other city boards for over 30 years, and the loss of this
business is obviously of concern at a time when local
newspapers everywhere are facing significant financial
challenges due to declines in retail advertising. Little did
we expect our own city government to contribute to
this problem so it could save $20,000.


But an even greater and more important impact of this
change is its threat to a well‐informed public. In a
community that prides itself on citizen engagement, it is
illogical for the city to publish its advertising in a paper
that reaches 70% fewer people and doesn't deliver to a
single Palo Alto home. And the loss of the city's
advertising means fewer resources available to continue
the quality local journalism you expect from us.


If you are so moved, we would invite you to
communicate your thoughts to any City Council
member you may know, or the entire Council via the
                             6
city.council@cityofpaloalto.org email. Obviously
personal contact is best. You could also post a comment
on the story itself.


I don't know whether the Council can be persuaded to
reverse this decision, but an expression by concerned
residents will certainly make it aware of how vital you
believe city‐resident communication is, and the
importance of the city supporting the community's
newspaper.


Thanks, as always, for the support you already provide
the Weekly through your subscription.


Sincerely,
Bill Johnson
Publisher


‐‐‐‐‐‐
Lydia,
Thanks for an explanation,


Nancy Hamilton




‐‐
This email list is maintained by the Barron Park
Association. Join or renew your BPA membership, or get
more email list information, at bpapaloalto.org.
Need to check membership status? Contact
barronpark.paloalto@gmail.com.
Disclaimer: Any viewpoints in this message are those of
the writer and do not necessarily represent those of the
Barron Park Association or the BPA Board.
‐‐‐ You received this message because you are
subscribed to the Google Groups "Barron Park
Association: Miscellaneous" group.
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving
emails from it, send an email to bpa‐
misc+unsubscribe@googlegroups.com.
To post to this group, send email to bpa‐
misc@googlegroups.com.

                             7
                For more options, visit
                https://urldefense.proofpoint.com/v2/url?u=https‐
                3A__groups.google.com_d_optout&d=DwIFaQ&c=fie8C
                ffxQEyLNW7eyn‐hJg&r=U‐uAubRp662MIYgiT6Fg6N‐
                XFCfzTqviAPfNji7y_bI&m=EByOExrIv4oBHkYEBwh3WBD
                fmKSfd‐UbombeRcUG9Xk&s=x5‐
                sUpNhGFBBGvNPEmF9Q7wgZcV1OrLjD0Afa04rabE&e=.


        ‐‐
        This email list is maintained by the Barron Park Association.
        Join or renew your BPA membership, or get more email list information,
        at bpapaloalto.org.
        Need to check membership status? Contact
        barronpark.paloalto@gmail.com.
        Disclaimer: Any viewpoints in this message are those of the writer and
        do not necessarily represent those of the Barron Park Association or the
        BPA Board.
        ‐‐‐
        You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google
        Groups "Barron Park Association: Issues" group.
        To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send
        an email to bpa‐issues+unsubscribe@googlegroups.com.
        To post to this group, send email to bpa‐issues@googlegroups.com.
        For more options, visit
        https://urldefense.proofpoint.com/v2/url?u=https‐
        3A__groups.google.com_d_optout&d=DwIFaQ&c=fie8CffxQEyLNW7eyn
        ‐hJg&r=U‐uAubRp662MIYgiT6Fg6N‐
        XFCfzTqviAPfNji7y_bI&m=EByOExrIv4oBHkYEBwh3WBDfmKSfd‐
        UbombeRcUG9Xk&s=x5‐
        sUpNhGFBBGvNPEmF9Q7wgZcV1OrLjD0Afa04rabE&e=.
*Wire Fraud is Real*. Before wiring any money, call the intended recipient at a number
you know is valid to confirm the instructions. Additionally, please note that the sender
does not have authority to bind a party to a real estate contract via written or verbal
communication.


‐‐
This email list is maintained by the Barron Park Association.
Join or renew your BPA membership, or get more email list information, at
bpapaloalto.org.
Need to check membership status? Contact barronpark.paloalto@gmail.com.
Disclaimer: Any viewpoints in this message are those of the writer and do not
necessarily represent those of the Barron Park Association or the BPA Board.
‐‐‐
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "Barron
Park Association: Issues" group.
                                             8
       To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to bpa‐
       issues+unsubscribe@googlegroups.com.
       To post to this group, send email to bpa‐issues@googlegroups.com.
       For more options, visit https://groups.google.com/d/optout.

‐‐
This email list is maintained by the Barron Park Association.
Join or renew your BPA membership, or get more email list information, at bpapaloalto.org.
Need to check membership status? Contact barronpark.paloalto@gmail.com.
Disclaimer: Any viewpoints in this message are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent
those of the Barron Park Association or the BPA Board.
‐‐‐
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "Barron Park Association:
Issues" group.
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to bpa‐
issues+unsubscribe@googlegroups.com.
To post to this group, send email to bpa‐issues@googlegroups.com.
For more options, visit https://groups.google.com/d/optout.




                                                  9
Carnahan, David

From:                Petersen, Joe <JPetersen@kilpatricktownsend.com>
Sent:                Sunday, August 26, 2018 12:16 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Decision to stop posting in Palo Alto Weekly


Please add my name to the list of people who are displeased with the decision to stop posting meeting agenda in the
Palo Alto Weekly. This decision seems motivated to curtail civic engagement and is highly improper.


Joseph Petersen
Kilpatrick Townsend & Stockton LLP
Silicon Valley and New York
office 650 614 6427 | cell 917 859 9680
jpetersen@kilpatricktownsend.com | www.kilpatricktownsend.com

* Admitted in California and New York



________________________________

Confidentiality Notice:
This communication constitutes an electronic communication within the meaning of the Electronic Communications
Privacy Act, 18 U.S.C. Section 2510, and its disclosure is strictly limited to the recipient intended by the sender of this
message. This transmission, and any attachments, may contain confidential attorney‐client privileged information and
attorney work product. If you are not the intended recipient, any disclosure, copying, distribution or use of any of the
information contained in or attached to this transmission is STRICTLY PROHIBITED. Please contact us immediately by
return e‐mail or at 404 815 6500, and destroy the original transmission and its attachments without reading or saving in
any manner.

________________________________

***DISCLAIMER*** Per Treasury Department Circular 230: Any U.S. federal tax advice contained in this communication
(including any attachments) is not intended or written to be used, and cannot be used, for the purpose of (i) avoiding
penalties under the Internal Revenue Code or (ii) promoting, marketing or recommending to another party any
transaction or matter addressed herein.




                                                             10
Carnahan, David

From:                Ari Cartun <arilevmc@icloud.com>
Sent:                Sunday, August 26, 2018 12:13 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Saving a measly $20K...


...and missing most of the city by switching from the PA Weekly to the Daily Post. I look at the Weekly each week. I
almost never look at the Post. The Weekly is on my driveway each Friday. If I pass a box with Posts in it
I may peek at a headline but rarely take one.
Ari Cartun
3506 Emerson
Palo Alto
Enviado desde mi iPhone/iPad
Sent from my iPhone/iPad




                                                            11
Carnahan, David

From:              Lina Crane <lina.crane@gmail.com>
Sent:              Sunday, August 26, 2018 10:13 AM
To:                Council, City
Subject:           City Meeting and Agenda Notice




Please restore notice of council and agenda meetings to the Palo Alto Weekly. The Daily will not suffice, as it
doesn't deliver to households in our community but rather to newsboxes which may or maynot be available.
The Weekly distributes 20,600 copies , including 14,000 directly to homes.
Kindly advise Ms. Minor.

Lina F Crane
 140 Lois Ln
Palo Alto Ca
‐‐
LFC from linaL




                                                       12
Carnahan, David

From:               Donna Silverberg <donna.silverberg@sbcglobal.net>
Sent:               Monday, August 27, 2018 9:47 AM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            Palo Alto Weekly


Dear City Council,
Please reconsider your decision not to post City Council Meetings dates in the Palo Alto Weekly, which is a newspaper
one relies on for excellent news and comments about Palo Alto issues.
Best would be to post the meetings in both papers, the Weekly and the Daily Post and support our free press – we need
it more than ever!
Thank you,
Donna Silverberg




                                                          1
Carnahan, David

From:                Anne Cribbs <acribbs@basoc.org>
Sent:                Monday, August 27, 2018 9:09 AM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Disappointed in Decision to stop printing public notices and commission agendas in the PA Weekly


Good morning. as a longtime advertising and public relations executive in Palo Alto and a current member of the Park
and Recreation Commission, moving to the Post with its limited circulation is a foolish decision. I hope the City will
reconsider. It is important for the community to have info delivered by the Palo Alto Weekly with the Weekly’s broader
distribution!

Thank you.


Anne Warner Cribbs OLY
President and CEO
BASOC - the bay area sports organizing committee
1960 Olympian
2275 East Bayshore, Suite 115
Palo Alto, CA 94303
Ph. 650.323.9400
Fx: 650.323.9403
415.264.2067
acribbs@basoc.org
www.basoc.org




                                                           2
Carnahan, David

From:               Jatin Parekh <jatin.parekh@gmail.com>
Sent:               Monday, August 27, 2018 12:45 AM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            Palo Alto Weekly decision


Hello Council members,

I heard that you all have decided to move publication of announcements to Daily Post. Palo Alto weekly is delivered free
at home but not post. This makes it easier for us to be abreast of related news. I would like you all to reverse the
decision and continue publishing in palo alto Weekly. You may also start publishing it in POST as a part of broader
outreach effort but discontinuing in palo alto weekly may make financial sense but it is at cost of reducing awareness.

Jatin




                                                           3
Carnahan, David

From:                Crystal Casey <caseycm2007@gmail.com>
Sent:                Sunday, August 26, 2018 9:30 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Pulling City Council news from Weekly


Dear Council Members,
Your decision to stop publishing City Council schedules and agendas in Palo Alto Weekly is concurrent and consistent
with your lack of support for Palo Alto small business and long‐time institutions here. I also wonder if it’s an effort to
make it more difficult for Palo Altans to participate in city government.

Please reconsider this ill‐conceived decision.

Sincerely,
Crystal M. CASEY
2051 Wellesley St.
PA
6507998582

Sent from my iPhone
Follow me on Twitter @SVgourmand




                                                              4
Carnahan, David

From:             Lynnie Melena <lynniemelena@gmail.com>
Sent:             Sunday, August 26, 2018 9:25 PM
To:               Council, City
Cc:               njpersonal
Subject:          Meeting Notices in the Weekly



Dear City Council Members,

I was surprised, actually shocked, to see that the City will not longer publish meeting
notices in the Weekly and will instead publish in the Post. This decision may meet the
letter of the law about public notices but it does not actually serve as a public notice to
the widest possible audience. It would be one thing if these were legal notices that few
people read. But people actually read the Weekly and look for public hearing notices.
Publishing in the Weekly is one of the most cost effective ways to do this.

Please reverse this decision.

Lynnie Melena




                                                    5
Carnahan, David

From:               Carina Rossner <carina@carinarossner.com>
Sent:               Sunday, August 26, 2018 9:09 PM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            Please keep noticed published in the PA Weekly


The weekly does a great job not only of distributing the news but also of engaging the community in its content.

Thank you
Carina




                                                            6
Carnahan, David

From:                Shannon Rose McEntee <shannonrmcentee@gmail.com>
Sent:                Sunday, August 26, 2018 8:52 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Decision not to advertise the City's meetings in the Palo Alto Weekly



Dear City Council,

I hope the City will reconsider its decision not to advertise the city's formal meetings in the Palo Alto Weekly
as it has always done. I rarely see the Daily. I will be unable to stay abreast of what is happening in my city
government!

The Weekly is an invaluable resource to all of us. When I travel, I stay up to date with the Weekly's excellent
online Monday through Friday content. Besides the need to stay abreast of what's happening in our city
government, the honest local news that the Weekly provides helps protect democracy. We should all support
the Weekly. Please have the staff reverse this wrong‐headed decision.

Sincerely,

Shannon Rose McEntee

410 Sheridan Avenue
Palo Alto




                                                            7
Carnahan, David

From:               Melo <meloniebrophy@gmail.com>
Sent:               Sunday, August 26, 2018 5:21 PM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            Citizen communication


Are you open to re‐considering your decision to publish in both community papers, so that more citizens can be aware
of what issues are before the city council? Thx!

Sent from my iPhone




                                                          8
Carnahan, David

From:                jan@thomson.org
Sent:                Sunday, August 26, 2018 4:40 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Notices of City Meetings




I am writing to express my serious concern about the decision to move notices of city meetings from the Palo Alto
Weekly, which is mailed to over
14,000 residents, including my family, to the Daily Post, which distributes less than half that number by way of
newspaper boxes at a few locations.

I am hoping that this decision is not intended to reduce information available to residents and to reduce the number of
residents that show up at city meetings to speak to issues of concern and importance. It certainly can be read that way
because that is what will happen. Palo Alto has long stood for community involvement and an open government. This
action will seriously undermine that. It is absolutely not in the best interests of the community.

The justification for this of saving $20,000 is really absurd, given the city budget and the taxes paid by residents to
support a city government that should be doing everything it can to encourage an open exchange of information and
resident participation.

I think this issue needs to be on a city council agenda. It is not appropriate that it be made by the City Clerk without
input from the community. Please let me know when this will be scheduled.

Thank you very much for your immediate attention to this important issue.

Jan Thomson
810 Garland Drive
Palo Alto




                                                              9
Carnahan, David

From:                Prince Shah <princeshah@gmail.com>
Sent:                Sunday, August 26, 2018 4:12 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Advertising in the PA weekly


I am very unhappy to find out that the city will be moving its advertising dollars to the daily Post. The PA weekly is an
institution and bastion of good journalism. I shop locally and pay substantial taxes to the city. I request you to reconsider
this and keep the advertising to Palo Alto's main news organization.

Regards,
Prince

‐‐
Prince Shah, MD, FACP, FACG




                                                             10
Carnahan, David

From:               David Perry <dperry2@gmail.com>
Sent:               Sunday, August 26, 2018 3:45 PM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            Publishing the agendas and other notices for the City Council, planning commission and other city
                    boards


Council,

WTH!.The above agendas and notices belong in the Palo Alto Weekly. Any of you who do not support reversing this
ridiculous decision will receive no support or vote from me in the next election.




                                                          11
Carnahan, David

From:                Helen Baumann <hbbaumann@aol.com>
Sent:                Monday, August 27, 2018 3:50 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Notices in the Weekly


Dear Clerk,
As a faithful reader of the Weekly, who never sees the Post, I would like to add my voice to those objecting to the change
in where you post notices of city meetings.
The Weekly is worth the extra cost because it is read by many more people.
Please reconsider what I find to be a "penny wise but pound foolish" decision.
Helen Baumann
151 Coleridge Ave
Palo Alto, CA 94301




                                                             1
Carnahan, David

From:               Rita Vrhel <ritavrhel@sbcglobal.net>
Sent:               Monday, August 27, 2018 2:32 PM
To:                 Minor, Beth; Council, City
Subject:            changing newpapers for public notification of meetings



Hello.. I would like to voice my opposition to changing form the Palo Alto Weekly to the Daily Post for posting
the city's meeting notices and agenda ads notices. The Daily has a much smaller circulation and is not delivered
to resident's door. Therefore to select them only on the basis of cost is foolish; they are providing less for your
dollar.



Many times the newspaper boxes belonging to the Daily Post are empty, a paper can not be obtained even after
trying multiple locations. Some locations appear to have been abandoned completely but the boxes have not
been removed. This gives the appearance of wider distribution than is actual.



The Weekly always posts the notices on Friday; I receive the paper and know where to look. The Daily Post
could include the city's meeting notices and agenda ads on any day making it easier to miss.



The above change and decrease in actual availability of the city's public meeting notices and agendas is
particularly troubling as the City's webpage must have recently been "upgrade:" which, to me, resulted in it
being MUCH harder to find agendas and information on meetings. The combination of the 2 will result in fewer
residents being informed and pose a challenge to those in the public who wish to remain engaged and informed.


Freedom of information and the flow of information are vital to a functioning Democracy. I believe a "world
class city" like Palo Alto can afford to provide adequate notice of City meeting and agendas to city residents.



I would respectfully ask this decision be re-evaluated and reversed. There must be other ways to save on money.
Thank you so much.

Rita C. Vrhel, RN, BSN, CCM
Medical Case Management
Phone: 650-325-2298
Fax: 650-326-9451




                                                          2
Carnahan, David

From:                Don Kenyon <dckenyon@gmail.com>
Sent:                Monday, August 27, 2018 2:16 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             re: Removing advertising city agendas in PA Weekly


Coucil members,

I think it is a serious mistake to remove PA Weekly from posting agenda of the council and other city meetings,

This paper is delivered to EVERY home in the city, not just in newstands.

This is not the place to cut costs at the expense of information to the citizens.

Thank you,

Don Kenyon’
Walter Hays Drive




                                                              3
Carnahan, David

From:                Minor, Beth
Sent:                Monday, August 27, 2018 1:37 PM
To:                  J. Robert Taylor; Council, City
Subject:             RE: Public Notice


Hi Bob,

Thank you for your email. The public can subscribe to get email notifications regarding agendas, here is the link,
https://service.govdelivery.com/accounts/CAPALO/subscriber/new?topic_id=CAPALO_10.

The email is sent out every Thursday evening and contains the most current agendas and reports for the upcoming
Monday meeting and the Council and Council Standing Committee meetings occurring 11 days later. In the event that
an agenda gets revised on say the Friday before the meeting, another email gets sent out advising the subscribers of the
update. We have provided this service for several years now.

Here is what the email would look like, the blue underlines are links to the agendas, which contains links to the actual
reports.

You are subscribed to City Council Meeting Agendas/Minutes/Reports for City of Palo Alto. This information has recently
been updated, and is now available.

                                   City Council and Standing Committee Notices

                 August 27, 2018 - Sp. City Council Meeting REVISED Agenda and Packet

                     Agenda Item 3 - Contract with DeSilva - Memo - Council Question

                                                Removed: Agenda Item 4

      Agenda Item 7 - Pets In Need Agreement and Animal Shelter Improvements - Staff Report

          Agenda Item 8 - Eviction Relocation Emergency Ordinance - Staff Report & Updated Title

          Agenda Item 9 - Diverse, Supportive, Inclusive and Protective Community - Staff Report

                      September 4, 2018     ‐    Sp. Finance Committee Meeting Agenda and Packet

                                   This Agenda will be produced on August 30, 2018

                                                          *****
                                                     Legal Notices
 Beginning September 1, 2018, Legal Notices, such as Public Hearing Notices, tentative City Council agendas, etc. will be
                               published in the Daily Post, typically in the Friday Issue.


                                                          *****


                                                            4
                                Board and Commission Recruitment ‐ Flyer | Applications

If you need any further information please let me know.

Thanks and have a great day.

B‐

Beth Minor, City Clerk
City of Palo Alto
250 Hamilton Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94301
(650)329‐2379




From: J. Robert Taylor <jrtpaca@gmail.com>
Sent: Monday, August 27, 2018 12:36 PM
To: Council, City <city.council@cityofpaloalto.org>
Subject: Public Notice

Dear Counsel:

I am in favor of using the cheapest 'print' available to satisfy the legal requirements for public notice, however the City
could keep a subscribed database for those who want to get notices electronically via email. This could potentially give
more effective and far reaching notice to all those who have right and interest. The future will eliminate the "printed"
notice entirely, we just are not quite there yet.

Thanks for you help.

Bob Taylor

480 Marlowe St.
Palo Alto, Ca




                                                             5
Carnahan, David

From:                Michael Ackerman <woadude@yahoo.com>
Sent:                Monday, August 27, 2018 1:14 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Palo Alto weekly publishing of agendas, etc


As a 60+ year resident of Palo Alto I deplore your recent decision to not renew the city’s agenda‐ publishing contract
with the Palo Alto Weekly. The Weekly is not only a far superior publication to the Palo Alto Post in every respect, but
for many residents it is the only one they ever see. Furthermore, in spite of what you may think, not everyone in
today’s world relies on the internet, nor should they have to.
I urge you to strongly reverse your recent decision to no longer support the Palo Alto Weekly.

Michael Ackerman
1322 Tasso Street
Palo Alto,CA
esqpa@aol.com




                                                             6
Carnahan, David

From:             Bill Johnson <bjohnson@paweekly.com>
Sent:             Monday, August 27, 2018 12:25 PM
To:               Stump, Molly
Cc:               Minor, Beth; Council, City; Keene, James; Shikada, Ed
Subject:          Your comments to the City Council



Molly,

The comments you apparently sent to the City Council over the weekend regarding the public notice
advertising situation were forwarded to me by a Barron Park resident who saw them in an online post
on the Barron Park listserv. It would have been nice to have been copied on your and Beth's
comments to the council directly rather than reading them on a neighborhood blog.

I want to make absolutely clear that Beth and I never arrived at an "understanding" regarding the
RFP and the contract for print publication of the city's public notices, as you state.

In two separate and very congenial meetings I reiterated our objections to the flawed process and
tentative decision and recommended that she consider bringing the policy question to the Council
(the exact same conversation I had with you and the mayor) or consider entering into contracts with
both newspapers. I also proposed that the city do online advertising, and she asked that I prepare a
proposal for that.

I presented that proposal to her and David on Friday, Aug. 17 and clearly separated the issue of
possible online advertising from the matter of the city's contract for publishing agendas. I stated that
we continued to hope she would reconsider the print ad contract.

Apparently, however, a decision had already been reached to execute the contract with the Post,
since this fact was found by my staff on the city's website on Monday. It was extremely disappointing
to learn of this decision, especially in that way, in part because it hadn't been mentioned just two
days earlier.

As you know, I have attempted for more than a year to make city staff (and both mayors) aware of
how moving its advertising from the Weekly to the Post would be viewed in the community and the
adverse reaction it would bring. And I patiently followed your procedures confident that city staff
would reconsider on the merits.

This was a completely predictable and avoidable controversy because it is so obvious that a move to
the Post is a decision to drastically reduce community awareness of city government activities. There
is simply no defense of it other than the savings of $20,000.

The treatment of the Weekly throughout this process and the actions of the city staff to defend it
after the fact have been enormously disappointing and disrespectful of the community. And your
proclaiming that "the process is done" based on legal grounds is a regrettable final expression of that
disrespect.

                                                          7
Bill



William S. Johnson
Publisher, Palo Alto Weekly
President & CEO, Embarcadero Media
450 Cambridge Ave.
Palo Alto, CA 94306
650.326.8210 650.223.6505 (direct)




                                     8
Carnahan, David

From:                Tricia Kellison <tkellison@girlsms.org>
Sent:                Monday, August 27, 2018 11:44 AM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Changing ditribiution of City Council minutes


Dear City Council,

Please reconsider your decision to use the Daily Post instead of the Palo Alto Weekly to distribute your meeting minutes.
The distribution will reach far fewer homes, for a very small cost savings. Copies of the Daily Post are often unavailable.
It is a commercial publication with no roots in our City.

Please reconsider your direction on this important matter.

Tricia Kellison
2802 Louis Road




                                                             9
Carnahan, David

From:                holzemer/hernandez <holz@sonic.net>
Sent:                Monday, August 27, 2018 3:49 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             City's Decision to Replace PA Weekly Announcements
Attachments:         Dear City Council Members.docx


Dear Council Members,

Please see Word attachment. Thank you.




                                                         1
August 27, 2018

Dear City Council Members,

We’re writing to express to you our disagreement with the City Staff’s
recommendation to change the advertising venue for the City’s own meeting notices
and agendas from the Palo Alto Weekly to the Palo Alto Post.

Moving this advertising from a well-circulated, honored publication, which
distributes over 20,000 copies including delivery to more than 14,000 homes to
another less available publication that has only 6,000 copies doesn’t make any
logical sense.

Although, the reason for the change seems reasonable (reducing City costs), the
effect of this decision will actually reduce citizen involvement and produce less
informed citizens on what is happening in our City. Instead, as a Council, you should
want more citizen involvement and awareness where residents feel that their
thoughts are part of the decision-making process. Moving this advertising to a
publication that has fewer access points (less circulation, no home delivery, only
street boxes) is not the way to truly “save money”.

There are certainly other ways the City could reduce costs, for example, by not
hiring unnecessary outside consultants to fight “citizen-lead initiatives”. Please do
the right thing, reinstate the City advertising back to the Palo Alto Weekly and
consider putting the City’s announcements in both the Weekly and Post for more
citizen involvement.

Sincerely,


Terry Holzemer                      Suzanne Keehn
2581 Park Blvd. #Y211               4027 Orme Street
Palo Alto, CA 94306                 Palo Alto, CA 94306
Carnahan, David

From:                Nancy Martin <ncmartin@comcast.net>
Sent:                Tuesday, August 28, 2018 4:45 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             PA Weekly


Council Members,
I would like to urge you to reverse the City's decision not to place notifications of various City meetings in the PA
Weekly. This certainly appears to be more of a move away from transparency than it does a money saving
option....$20,000 is close to a rounding error for the City. Please do all that you can to keep and make t he City's
business even more transparent to the residents.
Respectfully submitted,
Nancy C Martin
777 San Antonio Rd. 132
Palo Alto, CA 94303




                                                              1
Carnahan, David

From:                James Hamilton <jaythamilton@gmail.com>
Sent:                Tuesday, August 28, 2018 2:55 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             City advertising switch


Dear City Council Members,
      I hope that you will reconsider the decision to switch advertising from the Palo Alto Weekly to the Daily Post.
Though the decision might save the city about $20,000 per year, this ignores the likely net benefits from publishing in
one outlet versus another. Consider that:
* The Palo Alto Weekly distributes 20,000+ copies in the city, including 14,000 directly to homes (including mine). The
Daily Post distributes 6,000 copies through news boxes. If you believe that transparency and open government and
citizen participation relate to the circulation of information, then you would need to consider that you're likely reaching
70% fewer people in order to save $20,000.
* Publishing city agendas and notices is the right thing to do because of intrinsic values (i.e., openness) and instrumental
values (i.e., the information helps change decisions about participation and policy). Over the course of the last several
years there are clear examples of how the lack of information about the operation of our local government led to
detrimental outcomes. This means that getting the information to circulate broadly should be a goal for the city council.
* Local public affairs reporting helps hold the city council accountable. I read the Weekly each week, but only
sporadically see the Daily Post (e.g., when I'm at Izzy's Bagels reading). My impression is that the Weekly devotes more
resources than the Daily Post to original reporting about Palo Alto. The support for this local news is a positive byproduct
of the bundling of news with advertising. Research shows that local public affairs reporting does have a positive impact
on communities: https://localnewslab.org/2018/06/20/how‐we‐know‐journalism‐is‐good‐for‐democracy/

     Thank you for considering this note, and I hope there is additional public debate at a council meeting about the
city's advertising policy.

Sincerely,
James T Hamilton




                                                             2
Carnahan, David

From:               Carol Blitzer <cblitzer@sbcglobal.net>
Sent:               Tuesday, August 28, 2018 12:24 PM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            Penny wise, pound foolish


Council members:
You may think you are saving $20,000 a year by posting agendas and city notices in the Daily Post rather than the Palo
Alto Weekly, but you are simply paying less and getting far less.
The Weekly reaches more Palo Alto homes (and readers).
If you want to encourage civic engagement, you must inform the public of upcoming meetings.
Respectfully,
Carol Blitzer

Sent from my iPhone




                                                             3
Carnahan, David

From:              Eileen Brooks <eibrooks@hotmail.com>
Sent:              Tuesday, August 28, 2018 11:01 AM
To:                Council, City
Subject:           Rescind Decision to Drop Weekly Ads



Please seriously consider reinstating Council, etc. ads in the Weekly.
It is the only way that I can learn what's going on in local government.
The City Clerk's decision to go with The Post is laughable. 6000 circ. vs. The Weekly's 30,000?
There is some cost for an informed citizenry.
Thanks ‐
Eileen Brooks




                                                       4
Carnahan, David

From:                   Carol Weber <cweber1151@gmail.com>
Sent:                   Tuesday, August 28, 2018 9:14 AM
To:                     Council, City
Subject:                PA Weekly


The Palo Alto weekly is a vital source of information on all items relevant to Palo Alto.

For less mobile seniors, the home delivery feature is vital!

Please do not take away your financial support of this important form of print media!

Raise the $20,000 you would otherwise save by some other means; for example, perhaps by issuing MANY more
speeding tickets along Embarcadero & Middlefield.

Support a well‐informed (and safe) environment.

Thanks for listening!


Carol L Weber
(650) 248‐0095
cweber1151@gmail.com




                                                               5
Carnahan, David

From:             abha kumar <abhakumarmd@gmail.com>
Sent:             Monday, August 27, 2018 8:54 PM
To:               Council, City
Subject:          I read Palo Alto weekly to keep informed




Sent from my iPhone




                                                      6
Carnahan, David

From:                Romola Georgia <rgeorgia@gmail.com>
Sent:                Monday, August 27, 2018 7:38 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Change of Newspaper Advertising


Dear Palo Alto City Council,

I am horrified that the City Clerk has decided to shift City notices from the Palo Alto Weekly to the Post.

The Weekly is a paper that is dedicated to serving our community with well‐researched articles and important
information for Palo Alto residents. It has the benefit of coming directly to our homes.

The Post, on the other hand, focus on crime and negative stories from the entire globe. It is not delivered to homes and
is not a healthy read.

Please reconsider this terrible decision.

Thank you,
Romola Georgia
Tippawingo St.
Palo Alto




                                                              7
Carnahan, David

From:                  Luce, Gwen <GLuce@cbnorcal.com>
Sent:                  Monday, August 27, 2018 4:59 PM
To:                    Council, City
Subject:               Please reconsider your decision to only post in the Post vs. PAW!




                                                             Gwen Luce, Realtor®
                                                                          DRE License #00879652
                                                                          Direct Line: 650.566.5343
                                                                              gluce@cbnorcal.com




    Many citizens who are elderly and infirm cannot walk to pick up a newspaper - they gratefully receive the Palo
    Alto Weekly at home on Friday!

    Gwen Luce




    .
    Gwen Luce
    650-566-5343
    gluce@cbnorcal.com
    www.gwenluce.com

  Powered by e-Letterhead


*Wire Fraud is Real*. Before wiring any money, call the intended recipient at a number you know is valid to
confirm the instructions. Additionally, please note that the sender does not have authority to bind a party to a
real estate contract via written or verbal communication.




                                                              8
Carnahan, David

From:                 John Sanchez <jesj98@yahoo.com>
Sent:                 Monday, August 27, 2018 5:00 PM
To:                   Council, City
Subject:              Cancellation of PA city meeting notices and agendas


Dear Council: PLEASE DO NOT cancel the weekly posting of PA City business (meetings, agenda) in the Palo Alto Weekly.

The Weekly (and it's online component) serve as a vital independent news source for Palo Alto residents. It should continue to
post this City business and contract the PA Weekly to publish it.

The WEEKLY (and the online edition) is the MAIN source of City business for Palo Alto residents.

Please DO NOT discontinue this service to your community.

John Sanchez
PA resident (34 years) who attempts to keep elected officials accountable for their actions.




                                                                 9
Carnahan, David

From:                  Kass <vz22@yahoo.com>
Sent:                  Monday, August 27, 2018 4:52 PM
To:                    Council, City
Subject:               Change of publication for notices


So sorry that to save $20K per year, the city staff has decided to change publications for city notices. Instead of using the Palo
Alto Weekly, with a circulation of 20,600 in Palo Alto, including 14,000 copies directly to residents, including myself, the city
has decided to use the Daily Post, with a circulation of 6,000, all to boxes. I will not see the notices unless I am out and about and
pick up a newspaper on the particular day the notices are published.

This is pound-wise and penny-foolish. Given the city's willingness to spend millions to upgrade city offices (although some
upgrades have been postponed), and while there is still no plan to build a new animal shelter and the construction of the new
police headquarters is still only a vague plan with no schedule, saving a small amount that will reduce coverage of council and
other activities seems like a poor decision.

Please reverse that decision.

Kathleen Goldfein
Resident of Palo Alto since 1989




                                                                  10
Carnahan, David

From:                 priya chandrasekar <priya_chandrasekar@yahoo.com>
Sent:                 Monday, August 27, 2018 4:29 PM
To:                   Council, City
Subject:              publishing agenda and meetings in the palo alto weekly


dear council members ,

The weekly news is a great paper that we not only love to browse but also get all our info from. We get it delivered and it is such
a wonderful way to keep us all connected. Please not take away there source of income and deprive us of the info.


thanks

priya
crescent park , Palo Alto




                                                                11
Carnahan, David

From:                 Lakshmi Rao <reachlakshmi001@gmail.com>
Sent:                 Monday, August 27, 2018 4:09 PM
To:                   Council, City
Subject:              Palo Alto weekly


Hello City Council,

I’m writing to you to please refrain from discontinuing publishing your meeting notices in the PA Weekly. This
newspaper is a bedrock of our news uptake as a community, and I want to assure you that the money spent in
disseminating content here is worth it.

If there are indeed savings to be had by distributing them the Post, why not consider it an add on, given its (much) lower
distribution. Nothing against newcomers, but perhaps you can distribute via both?

Sincerely,
Lakshmi Rao

The Palo Alto Comdominiums




                                                            12
Carnahan, David

From:              Elizabeth Wong <elizabethwong2009@gmail.com>
Sent:              Monday, August 27, 2018 7:33 PM
To:                Lait, Jonathan
Cc:                Shikada, Ed; Keene, James; Flaherty, Michelle; Morse, Rosemary; Hoyt, George; Timothy Kassouni;
                   Council, City
Subject:           Minor ARB Hearing
Attachments:       scanarbdates.pdf



Mr. Lait,

Attached are sample emails requesting ARB Hearing dates for 3 minor items (a) landscape which is limited to
plant pots and container plants, (b) materials board, and (c) west wall look. Review of these items is required
in the Approval No 2017‐2 Record of the Council of the City of Palo Alto Land Use Action for 425 and 429
University Avenue; the project was approved by Council on February 6, 2017.

For over a year my architects and/or I have repeatedly requested such Minor Level ARB Hearing via phone and
emails. A sample email dated February 1, 2018, is attached. Also attached is a response from Jodie Gerhardt
stating that she would only discuss ARB hearing dates "after a contractor is in place". This stipulation makes
no common or legal sense.

We had no cooperation from Planning in scheduling the ARB hearing. A Minor Level ARB hearing was finally
scheduled on August 16, 2018, about 18 months after the project was approved by Council. This enormous
delay in scheduling the ARB is causing severe economic hardships for the project for which Planning is mostly
responsible.

The ARB hearing of August 16, 2018, was continued to Sept 6, 2018, further delaying the project.

Please set up a meeting before our Sept 6 ARB hearing to dissect recent changes to city codes specifically as
they relate to qualifying appellants and time requirements for such appeals. I believe these changes are
recent as you mentioned that there were enacted after my own appeal of the Nobu Restaurant at 620
Emerson Street just 3 months ago and that under the new codes I would not be entitled to the Nobu appeal;
rather that such appeals are now limited to adjacent property owners only. Your email of today is even more
confusing as you repeated the above changes to the codes just last Monday August 20, 2018 when you met
with Architect Ko, Rosemary Morse, and other members of my team.

Additionally, I would like to explore the possibility of qualifying the Minor Level ARB items as "Deferred" items,
a common practice by other departments involved in the Building Permitting process.

Sincerely,

Elizabeth Wong

650 814 3051


                                                         1
    M Gmail                                                     Elizabeth Wong <elizabethwong2009@gmail.com>


    ARB Hearing for Approval No 2017-2
    1 message
                                                                               --------
    Laura Roberts <laura@koarch.com>                                         Thu, Feb 1, 2018 at 9:31 AM
    To: "Gerhardt, Jodie" <Jodie.Gerhardt@cityofpaloalto.org>, "APetersen@m-group.us" <APetersen@m-
    group.us>
    Cc: Elizabeth Wong <elizabethwong2009@gmail.com>, Peter Ko <design@koarch.com>


     Good morning Jodie and_Adam,



     I would like to schedule an ARB hearing for Approval No 2017-2, Record of the Council of the City of Palo Alto
     Land Use Action for 425 and 429 University Ave. to fulfill the Condition of Approval #3. Such Condition requires an
     ARB hearing for the following three items:




             (a) A decorative wall design treatment to the exterior walls adjacent to the Southern property line.



             (b) Landscape details and plans.
;




             (c) Exterior building materials, colors and details.




     Please let me know how soon you can accommodate us. Since it is only 3 items, is it possible to add this hearing
     to an existing ARB schedule?



     Thank you for considering my request.




     Laura C. Roberts, AIA

     Associate Architect




     Ko Architects, Inc.

     900 High Street, Suite 1

     Palo Alto, CA 94301
M         Gmail                                                        Elizabeth Wong <elizabethwong2009@gmail.com>



RE: ARB Hearing for Approval No 2017-2 - 429 University
1 message

Gerhardt, Jodie <Jodie.Gerhardt@cityofpaloalto.org>                                 Thu, Feb 1, 2018 at 11 :29 AM
To: Laura Roberts <laura@koarch.com>, "APetersen@m-group.us" <APetersen@m-group.us>
Cc: Elizabeth Wong <elizabethwong2009@gmail.com>, Peter Ko <design@koarch.com>


 Laura,               .                   .        ...~·7
                                              .   {)>I\~
 Please turn in revised   pl~n~.
                             After a conlct is in place, Adam will review those and route to other departments as
 necessary, then we can discuss hearing dates.




                    Jodie Gerhardt, AICP I Manager of Current Planning I P&CE Department


   .~.   ' ,        250 Hamilton Avenue I Palo Alto, CA 94301
   PALO
   ALT 0            T: 650.329.2575 IE: jodie.gerhardt@cityofpaloatto.org




  From: Laura Roberts [mailto:laura@koarch.com]
  Sent: Thursday, February 01 ifiB 9:3~ Alm~
  To: Gerhardt, Jdal' APM!f m-group.us'
  Cc: 'Elizabeth Wong'; Peter Ko
  Subject: ARB Hearing for Approval No 2017-2



  Good morning Jodie and Adam,



  I would like to schedule an ARB hearing for Approval No 2017-2, Record of the Council of the City
  of Palo Alto Land Use Action for 425 and 429 University Ave. to fulfill the Condition of Approval
  #3. Such Condition requires an ARB hearing for the following three items:


               (a) A decorative wall design treatment to the exterior walls adjacent to the Southern
               property line.
M Gmait                                                                                                Elizabeth Wong <elizabethwong2009@gmail.com>



429 University mixed use - minor ARB review
1 message

Tracy Wang <tracy@koarch.com>                                                                                                           Tue, Mar 20, 2018 at 3:14 PM
To: "apetersen@m-group.us" <apetersen@rn-group.us>
Cc: Peter Ko <design@koarch.com>, Elizabeth Wong <elizabethwong2009@gmail.com>, Laura Roberts
<laura@koarch.com>


 Hi Adam,

 We delivered the color and material board, 9 sets of landscape report and 9 sets of west wall design report for 429
 University Ave mixed use project to planning department this afternoon. I also attached the digital files here for your use.
  Please let us know if you have any questions or comments.

 Thank you!



  Tracy Wang

  Project Architect



  Ko Architects, Inc.

  900 High Street, Suite 1

  Palo Alto, CA 94301

  Phone: 650-853-1908

  tracy@koarch.com



  ABOUT THIS E-MAIL: The information transmitted may contain confidential and/or legally privileged material that is only for the person or entity to which It is addressed.
  Any review, retransmission, dissemination or other use of, or taking of any action in reliance upon, this information by persons or entities other than the intended recipient
  is prohibited. If you received this in error, please contact the sender and delete the material immediately.




   3 attachments




                                                              429 University -Color board.jpg
                                                              566K




   t)    West Wall Report 03202018.pdf
    .    3413K

   tj    429 university landscape report - 03.20.18.pdf
M       Gmail                                                          Elizabeth Wong <elizabethwong2009@gmail.com>



Minor ARB review of materials board, landscape, appearance of western wall.
1 message

Elizabeth Wong <elizabethwong2009@gmail.com>                                                   Wed, May 2, 2018 at 10:08 AM
To: "Gitelman, Hillary" <Hillary.Gitelman@cityofpaloalto.org>, "Lait, Jonathan" <Jonathan.Lait@cityofpaloalto.org>, "Gerhardt,
Jodie" <jodie.gerhardt@cityofpaloalto.org>, Adam Petersen <APetersen@m-group.us>
Cc: "Morse, Rosemary" <rosemary.morse@cityofpaloalto.org>, Peter Ko <design@koarch.com>, Tracy Wang
<tracy@koarch.com>, Laura Roberts <laura@koarch.com>, Jaime Wong <jandewong@gmail.com>, Andrew Wong
<a.jaime.wong@gmail.com>

  Good morning Hillary, Jon, Jodie, Adam,

  Ko Architects has repeatedly requested the minor ARB Hearing for review of the subject issues required in the Approval
  for 429 University. We have emails of such requests from January/February 2018.

  Please look into this request as time is of the essence.

  Thank you.

  Elizabeth Wong
Carnahan, David

From:                      Cassie Tolhurst <cassie@verizon-business.com>
Sent:                      Tuesday, August 28, 2018 7:30 AM
To:                        Council, City
Subject:                   News Alert: Laguna Niguel named #33 best “small city” for small businesses


Hi City Council,

Verizon Business just released its Best Small Cities for Small Businesses report for 2018. Laguna Niguel made the list as
the #33 ranked city across the U.S. for small businesses.

That's puts Laguna Niguel in the top 16.6% across the nation. Congratulations!

Here is a link to the full report: https://go.verizon.com/resources/the‐best‐small‐cities‐to‐start‐a‐small‐business/
We encourage you to share your city’s achievement with your team, co‐workers, city residents, and local businesses.

We at Verizon Business thank you for creating an environment where small businesses can thrive. Your city is helping to
lead the way for the future of entrepreneurs and small businesses.

‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐

Here are some details from this report:




WHAT: Verizon Business announced the release of the “Best Small Cities for Small Businesses” report. We’ve all heard
the phrase, “small businesses are the backbone of the US economy” ‐ and for good reason ‐ small businesses make up
99.7% of US employer firms. But what about the cities they start in? Verizon analysts dug deep into six factors relevant
to small business owners to determine the top cities in our report.

WHERE: https://go.verizon.com/resources/the‐best‐small‐cities‐to‐start‐a‐small‐business/

                                                                               1
WHEN: August 27th, 2018.

HOW: Verizon gathered data from small cities (as defined by the US Census) across the country. The elements we pulled
indicate the financial climate of each city and an overview of its demographics. We based our ranking off of six metrics:
education level of the local workforce, in‐city commute times, income per capita, broadband access, availability of SBA
loans, and overall tax friendliness.

WHO: Verizon Business. You may know Verizon only as the network that powers your cellular devices. But we’re also
committed to helping businesses of all sizes change the world.

CITATIONS: Feel free to use any of our images and data included in our report. Please link to the complete study and
attribute Verizon Business so your readers can view our work in its entirety.

Thanks for all that you do, please reach out with any questions!

Cassie Tolhurst
Mobile : (385) 449‐0743
Email : Cassie@Verizon‐Business.com




This electronic message and any attachments hereto contain information which may be privileged, confidential, or otherwise protected from disclosure. The
information is intended to be for the addressee only. If you are not the addressee, any disclosure, copy, distribution or use of the contents of the message or any
attachments hereto is strictly prohibited. If you have received this electronic message in error, please notify us immediately, and permanently delete the original
message and attachments.
      Right-click or tap and hold
      here to download pictu res.
      To help protect y ou r
      priv acy , Outlook prev ented
      auto matic downlo ad o f
      this pictu re from the
      In ternet.




                                                                                   2
Carnahan, David

From:                Herman/Marina van Blommestein <vbconst@earthlink.net>
Sent:                Monday, August 27, 2018 4:28 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             NO to Just Cause and Relocation Payments


Dear City Council,

As a San Mateo County Resident, and having lived in San Francisco and dealt with rent control issues I personally know
they do not work. Please vote NO on any type of rent control such as Just Cause and Relocation Payments.

The burden of housing is a community issue to resolve and landlords should not have to bear the cost for something we
need to resolve as a community.

Thank you
Marina van Blommestein




                                                           1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/23/2018 5:25 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                                       California High-Speed Rail <Northern.California@hsr.ca.gov>
Sent:                                       Thursday, August 23, 2018 2:17 PM
To:                                         Council, City
Subject:                                    Northern California Regional Update- July 2018



                                                   To view this email as a web page, go here.


    Can't see the images? View As Webpage




           Northern California Regional Update
           The California High-Speed Rail Authority (Authority) continues its commitment to conduct public
           outreach. Here are a few updates this month.


                   San Francisco to San Jose                                           San Jose to Merced



        Statewide Update




                                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/23/2018 5:25 PM

                                                          Under new leadership by CEO Brian Kelly
                                                          (former California Secretary of
                                                          Transportation), the California High-
                                                          Speed Rail Authority (Authority) is
                                                          charting a new course for how it is
                                                          managing and delivering the nation’s
                                                          first high-speed rail system. Since joining
                                                          the Authority in February 2018, CEO
                                                          Kelly has been working to instill a more
                                                          disciplined approach to program delivery
                                                          through a three-step process:

             Step 1: The adoption of the 2018 Business Plan laid out the vision and a
              newimplementation strategy while clearly spelling out and acknowledging the
              challenges facing the Authority
             Step 2: The baseline, adopted by the Board of Directors in June 2018, aligns
              the scope, schedule and budget to deliver the priorities set forth in the 2018
              business plan. In short, it represents the “what,” the “when” and the “cost.”
             Step 3: The program management plan – which staff will bring to the
              Authority’s Board of Directors at their August 16 meeting in Sacramento – will
              lay out how we will organize and manage the team to ensure that the right
              resources are in the right place and that we have the governance structures set
              up to manage the program.


       The adoption of the baseline set targets for completion of the environmental
       documents for the San Francisco to San Jose and San Jose to Merced sections. From
       those targets, the Authority has developed its schedules for interim milestones in the
       development of those environmental documents. The key milestones in that process
       include the following:

                                                   San Francisco to San       San Jose to Merced
        Milestone
                                                       Jose Section                 Section


        Preferred Alternative for Board
                                                         December 2019          September 2019
        Adoption


        Draft EIR/EIS                                     March 2020             December 2019


        Final EIR/EIS and Record of Decision
                                                          March 2021             November 2020
        (ROD)




                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/23/2018 5:25 PM




           Authority Introduces New Leadership in Northern
                              California
        The Authority also recently announced changes to Northern California Regional
        leadership as it transitions to a new organizational structure, shifting the focus to
        project delivery within each of the project’s three regions.

                                                         This spring, Boris Lipkin was appointed
                                                         Acting Northern California Regional
                                                         Director, replacing previous Northern
                                                         California Regional Director Ben
                                                         Tripousis. Lipkin previously served in
                                                         several roles with the high-speed rail
                                                         program since 2011. Most recently, he
                                                         was appointed Deputy Director of
                                                         Strategic Planning by Governor Brown,
                                                         where he led the Strategic Initiatives
                                                         Office. In that role, Lipkin worked to
                                                         develop the Authority’s business plans,
                                                         led efforts to gain access to more
                                                         than $3 billion in state bond funds
                                                         and helped negotiate key agreements
                                                         with Caltrain and other partners.
        As Acting Northern California Regional Director, Lipkin plays a pivotal role in leading
        the delivery of the Silicon Valley to Central Valley line in the Northern California
        region as envisioned in the 2018 Business Plan. He will focus on engaging regional
        stakeholders on developing the program and bringing the benefits of improved
        transportation and mobility to Northern California.

                                                         Rebecca Kohlstrand was appointed
                                                         Interim Northern California Director of
                                                         Projects, where she will work to
                                                         advance the planning and
                                                         implementation of high-speed rail from
                                                         San Francisco to the Central Valley
                                                         Wye. She will be leading the team
                                                         charged with delivering the
                                                         environmental review and analysis of
                                                         the high-speed rail program in Northern
                                                         California.


        Prior to advancing to her new role, Kohlstrand served as the Northern California
        Environmental Manager for the high-speed rail program and has more than 40 years
        of experience in transportation planning. Previously, Kohlstrand worked on several


                                                     3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/23/2018 5:25 PM


        large infrastructure and transportation projects throughout Northern California and
        is intimately familiar with the region’s transportation needs.


                                                         Guy Preston has assumed the role of
                                                         Project Contract Administrator (PCA)
                                                         for Northern California. The PCA acts as
                                                         the focal point for the Authority’s
                                                         management of project delivery
                                                         contracts within each region, providing
                                                         oversight of regional project resources,
                                                         the scope, schedule, and budget for
                                                         contracts in each region, as well as
                                                         leadership and guidance to ensure
                                                         contracts are aligned with overall
                                                         program goals and objectives.
        Together, Lipkin, Kohlstrand, and Preston bring new leadership in the efforts to
        advance the delivery of high-speed rail in Northern California. They are working to
        ensure that the program brings benefits to the region by developing improved
        mobility options within the region and between Northern California and the rest of
        the state.




             Peninsula Corridor Electrification Project (PCEP)
                                  Update
       Caltrain electrification is a key component of the Caltrain Modernization (CalMod)
       Program and will electrify the corridor from San Francisco’s 4th and King Caltrain
       Station to the Tamien Caltrain Station. Electrification improvements include
       converting diesel-hauled trains to Electric Multiple Unit (EMU) trains and increasing
       service to six trains per peak hour per direction while substantially reducing emissions
       compared to today’s service. The Authority continues to be a champion and partner
       for the PCEP and has committed more than $700 million of Proposition 1A and other
       funds to complete the funding package for this project.

       Current construction activities include utility relocation, horizontal beam and OCS
       pole installation, and tree trimming. A preview of the some of these activities can be
       found at https://youtu.be/_CRuxEr-7GA.

       For more information on the overall CalMod Program and community construction
       updates and meetings, please visit the CalMod Program website at calmod.org.



                                                     4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/23/2018 5:25 PM




                                     MTC Awarded Grant
       The Metropolitan Transportation Commission (MTC) in May was awarded the Caltrans
       Strategic Partnership Planning Grant for the Diridon Integrated Station Concept Plan
       (DISC). MTC, as the eligible recipient for this grant program, will receive $500,000.
       The local match of $214,780 will be provided by a four-agency partnership made up of
       the California High-Speed Rail Authority, City of San Jose, Peninsula Joint Powers
       Board and the Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority.

       As the only place in the Bay Area where high-speed rail, commuter rail, and BART will
       intersect in the same building, Diridon Station is projected to become California’s
       busiest transit hub by 2040. Along with the increase in transportation service at
       Diridon Station and with the interest of Google to develop in the Station Area, it was
       recognized that additional planning was necessary to create a visionary urban station
       for all users that incorporates development/land use, transportation and the
       community at the site. To meet these goals, the Partnership has agreed to
       cooperatively manage the DISC planning effort. The DISC is an 18-month planning
       process that will include urban design, engineering, and governance/financing efforts
       leading to a Concept Plan for the Diridon Station Area. This effort will be closely
       coordinated and will build on the Authority’s environmental clearance for the
       elements that will be necessary just for high-speed rail at the station.

       The MTC-funded Diridon Station Area Plan (DSAP) was adopted by San José’s City
       Council in 2014. The DSAP was an important land-use planning effort that laid the
       groundwork for much of the development activity occurring in the station area today.
       Since the completion of the DSAP, it was recognized that additional planning work
       was needed to build upon the framework of the DSAP.

             Significantly more development within the station area is now likely, and this
              development is occurring more than a decade earlier than the DSAP
              anticipated


                                                     5
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/23/2018 5:25 PM


       While the DSAP put forward a general land use concept for the station area, it offered
       little detail on the size, shape or configuration of the station. This is in large part
       because design and environmental work relating to the new rail alignments that
       connect at Diridon Station – BART and high-speed rail – was not as far along when the
       DSAP was being created as it is currently.eo.


      If you are interested in inviting us to your community meeting to receive a project update,
      our team would be happy to coordinate with you. Feel free to contact us here:


                                                      Via Email:
                                             san.jose_merced@hsr.ca.gov
                                          san.francisco_san.jose@hsr.ca.gov

                      Via Phone:                                                 Via Mail:
       San Francisco to San Jose Project                        Northern California Regional Office
       Section:                                                 California High-Speed Rail Authority
       (800) 435-8670                                           100 Paseo de San Antonio, Suite 206
       San Jose to Merced Project Section:                      San Jose, CA 95113
       (800) 455-8166

   Sincerely,

   Boris Lipkin
   Northern California Regional Director

   SEE MORE AT WWW.HSR.CA.GOV
   California High-Speed Rail Authority
   100 Paseo de San Antonio, Suite 206
   San Jose, CA 95113
   northern.california@hsr.ca.gov
   (408) 277-1083



                               This email was sent by: California High-Speed Rail Authority
                                    770 L Street Suite 620, Sacramento, CA, 95814 US

                                                    Privacy Policy

                                                     Unsubscribe




                                                            6
Carnahan, David

From:                Bob Stillerman <bobstiller@gmail.com>
Sent:                Wednesday, August 29, 2018 10:40 AM
To:                  ParkRec Commission; Howard, Adam
Cc:                  Council, City
Subject:             RE: Thank you for Court Policy Update


I would like to provide my input into the pickleball at Mitchell question.

I am a die‐hard tennis player (sometimes 5 times/week), Palo Alto resident, and recent new member to the Silicon
Valley (Palo Alto) Pickleball Club. I have participated in a number of pickleball events and note that on the 3 courts
normally available to tennis players (5‐7) where a maximum of 12 players can enjoy their sport, up to 44 people can play
on the same surface with pickleball configurations.

I am delighted, and impressed, by the number of enthusiastic pickleball players who show up on a regular basis. The
environment is friendly, open, readily available to all (no 1 ¼ hour wait between matches, more likely 10 minute waits),
and a lot of fun.

Thanks to Adam for your support and recognition of the value of PB to the community. I fully support the SVPB initiative
put forth for permanent facilities.

Thank you.

Bob Stillerman
T: +1-650-326-4800
C: +1-209-483-4800

From: 'mwilliams' via SVPC Members [mailto:svpc-members@googlegroups.com]
Sent: Wednesday, August 29, 2018 8:53 AM
To: ParkRec Commission; Adam Howard
Cc: City Council
Subject: Thank you for Court Policy Update



Chair McDougall, Palo Alto Parks and Recreation Commissioners, Adam Howard,

Thank you for voting in favor of recommending to the Palo Alto City Council to approve updating the Court
Use Policy to include Pickleball.

Thank you, Adam, for the enormous amount of time that you spent working on updating the policy.

I’d like to make some important points that may not have been heard at the meeting.

Pickleball is Noisy: Because of the noise factor of pickleball, we need a facility far enough away from
residences so as not to disturb their peace.

No Other Choice: Mitchell Park is the only park in Palo Alto that meets the above criterion. Tennis players
are fortunate because they have a choice of playing on any of the other 40 tennis courts in Palo Alto, including
the 4 newly resurfaced lighted courts at Mitchell. Pickleballers have no other choice.
                                                              1
Portable Nets: Every time we play, we have to put up, and remove, as many as 11 portable nets which we
have stored in a locker outside the courts. These nets weigh 25 lbs.

Classes: Since April, 2017 I, personally, in a volunteer capacity, have taught 54 City Pickleball Classes on
courts 5, 6 and 7 and have had to put up the portable nets for every one of them. Currently I am teaching 2
classes a week for 16 weeks and proposing to teach a Youth class next season. Please act on the following:

Save Money: Courts 5, 6, and 7, are due to be resurfaced soon. It makes perfect economic sense to install 4
permanent pickleball nets on court 5 at the same time this work is done.

Palo Alto Pickleball Club: Going forward, please refer to our club as the Palo Alto Pickleball Club. We have
over 360 members and 40% are Palo Alto residents. Our base is at Mitchell Park so the board felt that changing
our name from the Silicon Valley Pickleball Club more accurately reflect our demographics.

Sincerely,

Monica




Monica Williams
USAPA Ambassador
Pal Alto Pickleball Club
SVPC President
(650)254-1041
--
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "SVPC Members" group.
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to svpc-
members+unsubscribe@googlegroups.com.
To post to this group, send email to svpc-members@googlegroups.com.
To view this discussion on the web visit https://groups.google.com/d/msgid/svpc-
members/696765678.316501.1535557998087%40mail.yahoo.com.
For more options, visit https://groups.google.com/d/optout.




                                                        2
Carnahan, David

From:                Maryann McLaughlin <maryannmclaughlin10@gmail.com>
Sent:                Wednesday, August 29, 2018 10:25 AM
To:                  mwilliams; Howard, Adam; Council, City; ParkRec Commission
Subject:             Fwd: Thank you for Court Policy Update




Hi All,
Apologies for the typo below. I meant to say I do not live in Palo Alto. I do live in San Carlos ‐ where sadly, we do not
have any regular options other than indoor play on Wednesdays in the middle of the day.

I commend the City of Palo Alto for being receptive and recognizing the growth and positive impact of the sport on the
community.

Thanks,
Maryann




‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
From: Maryann McLaughlin <maryannmclaughlin10@gmail.com>
Date: Wed, Aug 29, 2018 at 1:07 PM
Subject: Re: Thank you for Court Policy Update
To: mwilliams <moniwilliams@yahoo.com>
Cc: Adam Howard <adam.howard@cityofpaloalto.org>, City Council <city.council@cityofpaloalto.org>, ParkRec
Commission <parkrec.commission@cityofpaloalto.org>


Hello,
I wanted to echo my gratitude and support. I also wanted to highlight something Monica might not have mentioned as it
related to the size of our club and positive economic impact.

I want to be direct and let you know that I live on the Peninsula and not in San Carlos. However, after I play at Mitchell, I
also stay in Palo Alto and shop. Many of us grab lunch or coffee nearby after playing. I often also pick up groceries at
Grocery Outlet or Piazza’s and run other errands at local PA shops. I point this out as I know there has been some
discussion that some club members are not PA residents, but I am certain we collectively spend tens of thousands of
dollars each year in Palo Alto as a direct result of our playing Pickleball in the city.

We appreciate you consideration.

Thanks,
Maryann McLaughlin

On Wed, Aug 29, 2018 at 8:53 AM 'mwilliams' via SVPC Members <svpc‐members@googlegroups.com> wrote:

 Chair McDougall, Palo Alto Parks and Recreation Commissioners, Adam Howard,

                                                              3
Thank you for voting in favor of recommending to the Palo Alto City Council to approve updating the Court
Use Policy to include Pickleball.

Thank you, Adam, for the enormous amount of time that you spent working on updating the policy.

I’d like to make some important points that may not have been heard at the meeting.

Pickleball is Noisy: Because of the noise factor of pickleball, we need a facility far enough away from
residences so as not to disturb their peace.

No Other Choice: Mitchell Park is the only park in Palo Alto that meets the above criterion. Tennis players
are fortunate because they have a choice of playing on any of the other 40 tennis courts in Palo Alto, including
the 4 newly resurfaced lighted courts at Mitchell. Pickleballers have no other choice.

Portable Nets: Every time we play, we have to put up, and remove, as many as 11 portable nets which we
have stored in a locker outside the courts. These nets weigh 25 lbs.

Classes: Since April, 2017 I, personally, in a volunteer capacity, have taught 54 City Pickleball Classes on
courts 5, 6 and 7 and have had to put up the portable nets for every one of them. Currently I am teaching 2
classes a week for 16 weeks and proposing to teach a Youth class next season. Please act on the following:

Save Money: Courts 5, 6, and 7, are due to be resurfaced soon. It makes perfect economic sense to install 4
permanent pickleball nets on court 5 at the same time this work is done.

Palo Alto Pickleball Club: Going forward, please refer to our club as the Palo Alto Pickleball Club. We have
over 360 members and 40% are Palo Alto residents. Our base is at Mitchell Park so the board felt that
changing our name from the Silicon Valley Pickleball Club more accurately reflect our demographics.

Sincerely,

Monica




Monica Williams
USAPA Ambassador
Pal Alto Pickleball Club
SVPC President
(650)254-1041

‐‐
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "SVPC Members" group.
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to svpc‐
members+unsubscribe@googlegroups.com.
To post to this group, send email to svpc‐members@googlegroups.com.
                                                       4
To view this discussion on the web visit https://groups.google.com/d/msgid/svpc‐
members/696765678.316501.1535557998087%40mail.yahoo.com.
For more options, visit https://groups.google.com/d/optout.




                                                         5
Carnahan, David

From:                 linda leaver <lindajleaver@gmail.com>
Sent:                 Wednesday, August 29, 2018 9:51 AM
To:                   ParkRec Commission; Howard, Adam
Cc:                   Council, City
Subject:              Re: Palo Alto Pickleball Club


Dear Adam Howard and the Palo Alto Recreation Commission:

Thank you for decisively moving towards installing dedicated courts at Mitchell Park and accommodating the quickly
growing membership of the Palo Alto Pickleball Club

Sincerely,


_|Çwt _xtäxÜ
Brian Boitano Enterprises
10545 West Loyola
Los Altos, CA 94024
650 948 2478


http://www.twitter.com/brianboitano/
http://www.brianboitano.com/
http://www.facebook.com/brianboitano/




                                                              6
Carnahan, David

From:                connors@sbcglobal.net
Sent:                Wednesday, August 29, 2018 9:45 AM
To:                  Howard, Adam; ParkRec Commission
Cc:                  Council, City
Subject:             Appreciation and Thanks


Good morning Adam,

Wanted to take a moment to say we appreciate you and the Parks and Recreation’s support of Pickleball in Palo Alto. It
is amazing how this sport brings people in a community together for a great social and good exercise sport experience
that is very habit forming. Look forward to Palo Alto joining the ever growing list of cities that have dedicated Pickleball
courts in one of their Parks.

With Great Thanks,

John




                                                              7
Carnahan, David

From:                Martha Elderon <melderon@gmail.com>
Sent:                Wednesday, August 29, 2018 9:25 AM
To:                  Howard, Adam; Council, City
Subject:             Permanent and reservable PICKLEBALL COURTS


Dear Mr. Howard and Palo Alto City Council members,

I am one of the many pickleball players who use Mitchell Park courts several times weekly to enjoy this great sport. As a
senior citizen, it improves my health and well‐being enormously.

I urge you to give us parity with the tennis players by allowing advance reservations of pickleball courts. As Monica
Williams pointed out, tennis players have access to many local courts, whereas delineated pickleball courts are not as
easy to find.

I also request that Mitchell Park offer some permanent pickleball courts so we won't have to set up and take down our
nets each time we play.

Thanks for your consideration!

~ Martha Elderon (Palo Alto Unified School District employee)




                                                            8
Carnahan, David

From:                 Geri <geri@thegrid.net>
Sent:                 Tuesday, August 28, 2018 12:19 AM
To:                   Council, City
Subject:              12:11 pm




Hello Council,

I just want to thank you all for working so hard, so late.

Geri McGilvray

Everyday Safety and WALKABILITY, MIDDLEFIELD ROAD, midtown, Palo Alto


Sent from my iPhone




                                                             1
Carnahan, David

From:                Suzanne Keehn <dskeehn@pacbell.net>
Sent:                Monday, August 27, 2018 3:58 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             President Hotel



Dear City Council,




Many of us totally support the residents of the President Hotel, for many reasons. First being that we want/need
these people in Palo Alto, they are a very diverse community which is so valuable. Second, we keep talking about
BMR units, but have not yet found a way to make sure we build such housing. We saved Beuna Vista, thank
goodness, but now may loose this valuable source of housing. Another BIG problem, is that the new hotel will be
REQUIRED to provide 150 parking spaces, the President at present has 7, and no way to include more. So what
happens, the neighborhoods have to now be a parking lot for the new Hotel?

W have to have renter protection for all these mydraid of reasons, an ordinance is needed to extend the time when
they need to leave , and to certainly give them more than $3000. Better yet find a way for them to stay with the
same rent.


Below is a quote from Palo Alto Matters, which says it all. Please act in such a way that protects the
residents and our City from more parking mess.
"It’s unclear that AJ Capital understood all the legal problems its hotel conversion faces. Until it proposes a plan
that conforms with city laws, regulations such as the those adopted by Santa Rosa and suggested by the Law
Foundation of Silicon Valley could forestall the threatened evictions and protect against what could be a long
term empty building in the heart of downtown. If councilmembers wish to protect the Hotel President
tenants and others, they will need to move quickly and expand eviction guidelines beyond what’s in the
proposed ordinances for Monday night."




Thank you for taking positive action for us all.


Suzanne Keehn
4076 Orme St.
94306




                                                           1
Carnahan, David

From:                Annette Ross <port2103@att.net>
Sent:                Tuesday, August 28, 2018 7:57 AM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Public Transportation Needs Your Influence


I stopped in at CC last night to comment during Public Communications but withdrew my card upon realizing that this
issue could wait while others on the agenda could not. So I am writing instead.

Please use your influence to improve the reliability of the public transportation that we do have. Yesterday I used the
shuttle to get to work and then to downtown. After work I encountered a woman I often see on the shuttle. She was a
little annoyed that the shuttle wasn’t running on schedule. This woman lives in Gilroy and commutes to Palo Alto by
train. It is critical that she make the 5:43 train south because if she does not she must wait in San Jose for NINETY
minutes. Per her, the Embarcadero shuttle did not run on schedule last Friday and it was off schedule again yesterday.

Since I live here, if I miss a shuttle I am inconvenienced but not at the level that train riders are inconvenienced. Nothing
will drive people into their cars faster than public transportation that is not reliable. If you are serious about wanting
people to use public transportation, it must work. Said differently, it should be more surprising when a shuttle is late
than when a shuttle is on time. No one should ever be punished with a NINETY minute wait at a train station simply b/c
a shuttle is off‐schedule.

Help!

Annette Ross
Amherst Street




                                                              1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/23/2018 10:56 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Penny Ellson <pellson@pacbell.net>
Sent:                         Thursday, August 23, 2018 10:42 AM
To:                           Mello, Joshuah; Council, City
Cc:                           Safe Routes
Subject:                      Rail Questions



Hi Josh,

I am unable to attend this week’s Community Meeting re: Rail, but here are some questions I’d
ask if I could to understand the pros and cons of the remaining options.

Overall:
1). It is disappointing that the consultant was not prepared last week to discuss implications of
creeks for each option. I think this will be a key factor in decision-making, and I don’t see how
any of remaining options can be eliminated without knowing this.

2). I would like to see city join with citizens to lobby Caltrain to expedite their review and
possible revision of standards for tunnel/trench height. This could be a solution providing both
safety and enormous cost savings for the city—especially given the pressure we are starting to
see build on Nextdoor for a trench or tunnel option.

Safety: I view a 4’ rise at the Charleston and East Meadow crossings as a probable safety hazard
because the rise will create a sightline obstruction for WB drivers climbing the rise. They will
pick up speed as they crest the top and descend. Descent will land just at the Park Boulevard
crossings, creating risk for some very bad collisions at those intersections. If a 4’ rise is
allowed, this risk will need mitigation that has not yet been discussed.

MCL-rail over road hybrid w/ Loma Verde bike/ped connection
        What would the Loma Verde bike/ped connection look like? Where is the
          descriptive narrative for this facility?
        It looks like the MCL option would maintain all existing Alma connections/turning
          movements at Charleston and Meadow crossings for all modes
          (bike/auto/ped). Specifically, how would this be accomplished?
        Specifically, how would this affect driveways/properties abutting the lowered
          sections of road on Alma, Charleston and Meadow and any affected cross
          streets? How many properties would be affected? Exactly which properties would
          be affected? Exactly how would they be affected?
        How would abutting backyards/homes with glass walls be protected from privacy
          intrusion, lights, noise of elevated trains?

                                                     1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/23/2018 10:56 AM
           Specifically, how will placement of temporary track affect Alma operations during
            construction? How might diversion of traffic from Alma affect operations of other
            streets?
           Specifically, how tall will the total structure (including electrification
            accoutrement) be?
           How will bike/ped connections be maintained throughout construction? How will
            road grade changes affect bikability of bike routes on Park, Meadow and
            Charleston? Will Park Ave. be usable as a crosstown bike route through the
            construction period? What accommodations for bikes/peds will be made on East
            Meadow and Charleston through construction?

MCR-road over rail hybrid w/ Loma Verde bike/ped connection
       What would the Loma Verde bike/ped connection look like? Where is the
         descriptive narrative for this facility?
       How would abutting yards/homes be protected from privacy intrusion, lights, noise
         of elevated road?
       What would the grade of the road be? How would this affect bicyclists?
       Would the MCR option maintain all existing Alma connections/turning movements
         at Charleston and Meadow crossings for all modes (bike/auto/ped)? Specifically,
         how would this be accomplished?
       Specifically, how will placement of temporary track affect Alma operations? How
         might diversion of traffic from Alma affect operations of other streets?
       How will bike/ped connections be maintained throughout construction? How will
         road grade changes affect bikability of bike routes on Park, Meadow and
         Charleston? Will Park Ave. be usable as a crosstown bike route through the
         construction period? What accommodations for bikes/peds will be made on East
         Meadow and Charleston through construction?
       Specifically, how will abutting properties be impacted? Which properties?
       See above overall comment on this option.

MCT-road over trench or tunnel
This option should remain so that staff will study the difference between fully
trenched/tunneled vs. hybrid which requires a rise in the road which may create a safety
problem.

Understanding the Churchill Closure Decision
   When will we see a study to help us understand the traffic impacts of Council’s decision
     to close the Churchill crossing? This should inform all other grade sep decisions.
   Could the city implement a temporary closure of Churchill for a couple of months to
     study these impacts?


                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/23/2018 10:56 AM
Again, an early decision on trench/tunnel height standards would be very helpful to this
decision-making process. It could provide better solutions for the community at lower
cost. Will the city be lobbying Caltrain for this? If so, please tell citizens the best way we can
support the city’s effort.

Sorry for this rushed message, but it’s a busy week and I wanted to share these thoughts with
you.

Penny




                                                     3
Carnahan, David

From:                   Carl Page <carlpage@gmail.com>
Sent:                   Wednesday, August 29, 2018 9:05 AM
To:                     Friend, Gil
Cc:                     Council, City
Subject:                Re: dark albedo pavements...
Attachments:            image.png


Of course. You can mix in pigments at the mixing station. Main concern seems to be black footprints getting on it as
workers go about their business with normal level of care. That's acceptable compared to the economic and health
impact. Hotter pavement also release more VOC pollutants that may cause cancer on sunny days, so these cooler
pavements measurably improve air quality.

The stripes that we laid down hot are obviously pigmented asphalt. You can't do the whole street that way, but it shows
the extreme is possible.

https://www.dailynews.com/2017/05/20/cool‐pavement‐to‐cut‐urban‐street‐heat‐gets‐first‐california‐tryout‐in‐canoga‐
park/amp/

https://www.cnet.com/news/green‐asphalt‐layers‐cool‐surface‐on‐school‐lot/

http://www.graniterock.com/technical_reports/integral‐colored‐asphalt?category_id=90


Integral Colored Asphalt
By Irv Howton


The old adage “You can get your asphalt any color you like, as long at it is black,” no longer applies. There are at least two types of
color systems that are on the market today to color Hot Mix Asphalt. One system uses a colored cementicious material that is applied to
the mat surface and rolled. Often a pattern is rolled in as well. This system coats the surface of the asphalt pavement. The flexibility of
this system is that many colors can be used and the patterns can make the mat appear to be stonework. The main disadvantage to this
system is that the cost is high and the application requires a new skill set to be used on the job.


The other coloring system has been around since the early 1990s. This system actually colors the material before it is placed and is
uniform throughout the mix much like the integral color that is used in concrete. The main advantage to this system is that the whole top
lift of the mat is colored using the same techniques that are already used in paving. The disadvantage is that the colors are limited to
mainly reds and browns.


Using the second system, the Hot Mix Asphalt is colored by incorporating the powdered additive into the batch plant pugmill during
mixing. The amount of color that is added depends on the color that is requested. Lighter colors require more additive to do their job.


(arl

On Wed, Aug 29, 2018, 6:24 AM Friend, Gil <Gil.Friend@cityofpaloalto.org> wrote:


                                                                      1
Thanks Carl. I've shared this with the public works team, which asks " Is there something that has the attributes of
asphalt." Do you know?
Thanks,
Gil

Gil Philip Friend
Chief Sustainability Officer
City of Palo Alto
650/924‐6166

[crafted by thumbs]

From: Carl Page <carlpage@gmail.com>
Sent: Tuesday, August 28, 2018 4:29:07 PM
To: Council, City; Friend, Gil
Subject: Fwd: dark albedo pavements...

 I note Palo Alto is still using really dark pavement, and for no reason requiring us to use more air conditioners, and
 irrigation water, to undo the damage the pavement is doing.
See attached.

Los Angeles is doing it as part of their Cool LA initiative.
Climate change means we need to concentrate more on air conditioning and water consumption, and less on
heating.

https://www.dailynews.com/2017/05/20/cool‐pavement‐to‐cut‐urban‐street‐heat‐gets‐first‐california‐tryout‐in‐
canoga‐park/

CANOGA PARK >> The new street seal gushed from a downpipe Saturday onto Jordan Avenue,
then spread like paint to turn a half block of black into a sea of gray.

The morning temperature of the black asphalt in the middle of a nearby intersection read 93
degrees. The new light gray surface on Jordan Avenue read a cool 70 — on what would turn out
to be the first heat wave of the year.

“It’s awesome. It’s very cool — both literally and figuratively,” exclaimed Councilman Bob
Blumenfield, whose Los Angeles district includes Canoga Park, squinting into the laser handheld
thermometer. “We are trying to control ‘the heat island effect’ ” — or hotter temperatures caused
by urban sprawl.

“The downside: we won’t be able to fry eggs on the streets.”

    LOS ANGELES, WHICH HAD PIONEERED THE USE OF COMPRESSED NATURAL GAS
ADVERTI

TRASH TRUCKS AND OTHER VEHICLES, IS NOW AT THE FOREFRONT OF DEVELOPING A
 “COOL PAVEMENT” TO LOWER TEMPERATURES ALONG ITS THOUSANDS OF MILES OF
                        BAKING ASPHALT STREETS.

• MORE PHOTOS: See workers apply the cool pavement to the street



                                                            2
For the first time in the Golden State, it is testing a reflective street surface officials say could cut
public road temperatures, cool the insides of nearby buildings, lessen air pollution and reduce the
threat of deaths linked to increasingly hotter heat waves.

Before afternoon temperatures could push 100, city street workers spread a thin gray coating of
CoolSeal into the heart of one of its hottest neighborhoods.

“The city’s going to get hotter because of climate change, particularly this neighborhood of the
west San Fernando Valley,” said Greg Spotts, assistant director of the Bureau of Street Services,
who doubles as its acting chief sustainability officer. “The phenomenon called the heat island
effect means the city is hotter than the surrounding countryside.

 (arl




                                                    3
        \

Download from
Dreamstime.com
                                                                  c
This w31ermorkod CO<l'IP image I• for preV1ow1nq purposos only.   a
Carnahan, David

From:                   Anderson, Daren
Sent:                   Monday, August 27, 2018 6:50 AM
To:                     Jill Asher; De Geus, Robert; Holman, Karen (external); O'Kane, Kristen; Council, City;
                        peter.jensen@magicalbridge.org
Subject:                RE: Ducks under the bridge


Good morning, Jill.

Thank you for the email about the ducks. I’ll contact the Santa Clara County Water District and the Palo Alto Animal
Services this morning to ask for their assistance with the ducks.

Thank you,

Daren

           Daren Anderson | Division Manager‐ Open Space, Parks & Golf
           3201 East Bayshore Road | Palo Alto, CA 94303
           P: 650‐496‐6950

           Please think of the environment before printing this email ‐ Thank you

From: Jill Asher [mailto:jill@magicalbridge.org]
Sent: Sunday, August 26, 2018 9:48 AM
To: Anderson, Daren; De Geus, Robert; Holman, Karen (external); O'Kane, Kristen; Council, City;
peter.jensen@magicalbridge.org
Subject: Fwd: Ducks under the bridge




---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: suyun vaneveld <sv94306.lv@gmail.com>
Date: Sat, Aug 25, 2018 at 9:15 PM
Subject: Ducks under the bridge
To: <olenka@magicalbridge.org>, <jill@magicalbridge.org>


Dear Olenka,

Today I saw a family of ducklings struggling under the bridge. The water pump is pumping water out of the
creek. Water in the creek is getting less and less. Workers damed the creek, one side is to totally dry, the other
side still has a little bit of water. The little ducklings are unable to get over the dam. They are in danger. I hope
the magic bridge community can do something for the ducklings.

Attached some pictures of those desperate ducklings.

Best regards,
Suyun


                                                                   1
Sent from my iPhone
--
Jill Asher
Magical Bridge Foundation
NEW VIDEO: Why Magical Bridge Matters
p: 650-520-8512
e: jill@magicalbridge.org


Connect with Magical Bridge on:
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/magicalbridge
Twitter: https://twitter.com/magicalbridge




                                                   2
    •   .' ,
•              •
Carnahan, David

From:               Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com>
Sent:               Monday, August 27, 2018 6:56 PM
To:                 stb_discussion@googlegroups.com; wilpf.peninsula.paloalto@gmail.com; chuckjagoda1@gmail.com;
                    paloaltofreepress@gmail.com; roberta.ahlquist@sjsu.edu; stephanie@dslextreme.com;
                    stevendlee@alumni.duke.edu; HRC; Council, City; Keene, James; molly.o'neal@pdo.sccgov.org;
                    Stump, Molly
Subject:            Re: Speak Out for Homeless at 9:30 AM TOMORROW August 28 at the Board of Supervisors


Hi Folks,


The below letter was written by Sandy Perry of the Affordable Housing Network, CHAM Deliverance Ministry.
Regards,

Aram




               Hi Everyone,

               Please join Affordable Housing Network, CHAM Deliverance Ministry, and
               other organizations and advocates at 9:30 AM tomorrow, Tuesday August
               28, to speak out at the Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors to urge
               them to allow the use of the old City Hall Annex building to temporarily
               house the homeless. The County has over 7000 homeless people living in
               desperate conditions every single night. Many are forced to live in
               dangerous and unhealthy illegal encampments because there is literally
               nowhere else for them to go. The County has had years of task forces and
               discussions about temporary solutions, but has so far still made no
               significant progress in getting people off the streets.

               Silicon Valley’s ongoing shameful treatment of its homeless people is a
               national and international scandal. Please urge our County Supervisors to
               take advantage of this opportunity to house at least 150 of our fellow
               residents in the old City Hall while the new Civic Center is under
               construction. The proposal is simple, cost-effective, and can be
               implemented rapidly. Condemning the homeless to continue to live outside
               indefinitely, just to build another parking lot, is a serious moral misstep.
               Please join us to help the Board of Supervisors find its conscience and
               support this project!

               TIME: 9:30 AM TUESDAY, AUGUST 28
               PLACE: COUNTY BOARD OF SUPERVISORS CHAMBERS, 70 W.
               HEDDING STREET, SAN JOSE

                                                         1
Carnahan, David

From:                  Ken Meislin <ken@meislin.net>
Sent:                  Monday, August 27, 2018 12:46 PM
To:                    Council, City
Subject:               Rent Control in Palo Alto


Dear Palo Alto Councilmembers:

I am a property owner in the Bay Area. I do not own in Palo Alto – but I took the time to write to the city council members,
because this issue is so important.

I own many rental properties, small and large, and I own in many other cities, including rent control locations such as San
Francisco, and Oakland. I have never raised my rent more than 10% in one year ……. Ever! If we have seniors or other
people that are struggling, we often try to go easier on the increases. I consider myself an excellent landlord, and I always do
my part to be reasonable and responsible as an owner. I also have maintained all my buildings to the absolute highest
standards.

Ultimately, rent control only hurts the housing stock, decreases housing affordability, and causes many owners to neglect
their properties. Even though I do not neglect any of my properties, I can share with you the following. Most buildings in San
Francisco and Oakland have below market rents, and therefore many of my neighbors have buildings that have fallen into
disrepair. This is because regulated rents creates a disincentive for owners to spend money. The classic example would be…..
Patch the roof…… and continue to patch it, again and again, even if it is past it’s useful life. Don’t replace it. Why ??? ‐
Because the rent can’t be raised to compensate the owner. This is an issue, but it’s not even the worst problem. More
significantly, when rent control is implemented, tenants get further and further behind, and this creates a “split market”. As
time goes forward, old tenants pay less and less, relative to the real value, and then new tenants have substantially less and
less units to choose from. This drives prices up. Later in the cycle – it drives rents WAY up. Look at the price of a unit in San
Francisco….. Studios are now $2,500 to $3,000. Two bedrooms are more than $4,000. With rent control, over time, a lucky
few get a hall pass for subsidies, regardless of need, and everybody else is less able to afford housing.

As an example ‐ Check this out:

San Francisco’s median rent hits a ridiculous $4,225

http://flip.it/Wqm8y

This is not something we would want to see in Palo Alto. Please………. I speak from experience. Rent control is bad. Please
find other more reasonable solutions to our Bay Area housing crisis. Incentivizing more building, and backing low income
properties, would be a good place to start…….

Thank you in advance.

Most respectfully,

Kenneth Meislin
Mill Valley, CA


WE HAVE MOVED! PLEASE NOTE OUR NEW INFORMATION BELOW

ken@meislin.net

                                                                1
Kenneth Meislin ‐ Principal
Meislin Investments
P.O. Box 489
Mill Valley, CA 94942

Direct Line 415 273 2170
415 652‐0178 (cell)
Fax – 415 449 3655




                              2
Carnahan, David

From:                D Martell <dmpaloalto@gmail.com>
Sent:                Monday, August 27, 2018 3:10 PM
To:                  Mello, Joshuah
Cc:                  Stump, Molly; Shikada, Ed; Lauing, Ed; Council, City; Kniss, Liz (internal); Scharff, Gregory (internal);
                     Keene, James; Minor, Beth; Lunt, Kimberly; Brettle, Jessica; Carnahan, David; Kleinberg, Judy;
                     Drekmeier, Peter; Bill Johnson; Jay Thorwaldson; Dave Price; Allison@padailypost.com;
                     EmiBach@padailypost.com; AnnaEshoo@mail.house.gov; Anne.Ream@mail.house.gov;
                     Senator.Hill@senate.ca.gov; Alex Kobayashi; Supervisor.Simitian@bos.sccgov.org; Micaela.Hellman-
                     Tincher@bos.sccgov.org; VHS101@yahoo.com; richard@alexanderlaw.com; Aram James; Andrew
                     Pierce; Debra@firstpaloalto.com; Bear.ride@fprespa.org; CHamilton@da.sccgov.org;
                     JRosen@dao.sccgov.org; Goodell, Erin; Jonsen, Robert
Subject:             4th REQUEST | Palo Alto - Lytton Gardens obliterates FIVE downtown Handicap Spaces




Josh Mello
Chief Transportation Official
Palo Alto's Transportation Division

Mr. Mello:

In the future, it would make things much easier if you would take stewardship of your privileged position.

Again, you have complete City resources available to you, including a team of excellent City attorneys. YOU tell me if
the destroyed Handicap Zones are on private or City property. Your office is only four (4) blocks from LG, walk over and
take a look, then make a call to the Palo Alto County Assessor and afterwards query a City attorney for clarity. As a life-
time Palo Altan, I know first-hand that property lines in my town are often creative and not intuitive. Looks like City
property to me.

   MAN UP.

I will no longer do your work for you. It is not up to me to bring the inappropriate use of the Streets of Palo Alto to other
departments' attention. YOU must take responsibility.

It should not be this hard for a resident to get a straight answer from you to a simple and direct question. For the
FOURTH time, I demand to know,

    "Why has LG been allowed to obliterate FIVE Handicap Zones in front of their main entrance (656 Lytton
                                                 Avenue) ?"


-Danielle Martell
Palo Alto City Council Candidate, 2016 & 2005




                                                              1
From: D Martell <dmpaloalto@gmail.com>
Date: Sat, Aug 25, 2018 at 1:29 PM
Subject: CPRA Request | LG obliterates FIVE downtown Handicap Zones
To: Molly <Molly.Stump@cityofpaloalto.org>
Cc: <Joshuah.Mello@cityofpaloalto.org>, Ed <evlauing@yahoo.com>, City <city.council@cityofpaloalto.org>, Kniss, Liz (internal) <liz.kniss@cityofpaloalto.org>, Scharff, Gregory
(internal) <greg.scharff@cityofpaloalto.org>, James <James.Keene@cityofpaloalto.org>, Minor, Beth <beth.minor@cityofpaloalto.org>, <Kimberly.Lunt@cityofpaloalto.org>,
Brettle, Jessica <Jessica.Brettle@cityofpaloalto.org>, Carnahan, David <David.Carnahan@cityofpaloalto.org>, Kleinberg, Judy <Judy@paloaltochamber.com>, Bill Johnson
<BJohnson@paweekly.com>, Jay Thorwaldson <jaythor@well.com>, Dave Price <price@baydailypost.com>, <Allison@padailypost.com>, <EmiBach@padailypost.com>,
<AnnaEshoo@mail.house.gov>, <Anne.Ream@mail.house.gov>, <Senator.Hill@senate.ca.gov>, Alex Kobayashi <Alex.Kobayashi@sen.ca.gov>,
<Supervisor.Simitian@bos.sccgov.org>, <Micaela.Hellman‐Tincher@bos.sccgov.org>, <VHS101@yahoo.com>, <richard@alexanderlaw.com>, Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com>,
Andrew Pierce <apierce@pierceshearer.com>, <Debra@firstpaloalto.com>, <Bear.ride@fprespa.org>, <CHamilton@da.sccgov.org>, <JRosen@dao.sccgov.org>,
<Erin.Goodell@cityofpaloalto.org>, <Robert.Jonsen@cityofpaloalto.org>




Molly Suzanne Stump, JD
City Attorney at City of Palo Alto

         CALIFORNIA PUBLIC RECORDS ACT REQUEST (made this 25th day of August, 2018)

Dear Madame:

Pursuant to California Public Records Act Request (CPRA) (Govt. Code § 6250 et seq.), re the recent destruction of FIVE
downtown Handicap Zones by Lytton Gardens Senior Communities (LG) on Lytton Street, I request the release of copies
of the following documents:

         1. All emails and communications that Transportation Division Official Joshuah Mello received on the topic.

         2. All city communications with LG on the issue.

         3. All City-LG issues going back 36 months.

Absent some legitimate reason for delay provided in the government code, make sure that I receive the requested
documents within ten (10) days of this CPRA Request. Send all correspondence via my email
to dmPaloAlto@gmail.com.

Thank you very much.
I appreciate your time and help.

Respectfully,
-Danielle Martell
dmPaloAlto@gmail.com




From: Mello, Joshuah <Joshuah.Mello@cityofpaloalto.org>
Date: Sat, Aug 25, 2018 at 1:28 PM
Subject: Re: 3rd REQUEST | Palo Alto ‐ Lytton Gardens obliterates FIVE downtown Handicap Spaces
To: D Martell <dmpaloalto@gmail.com>




Ms. Martell:

I have passed your concern on to the Planning and Community Environment Department. The Office of Transportation
does not regulate disabled parking outside of the public right‐of‐way.

In the future, it would make things much easier if you would respond when asked for additional clarifying information.

                                                                                      2
Regards,

JOSHUAH D. MELLO, AICP
Chief Transportation Official
OFFICE OF TRANSPORTATION
City of Palo Alto
Joshuah.Mello@CityofPaloAlto.org
office: 650.329.2520
fax: 650.329.2154




From: D Martell <dmpaloalto@gmail.com>
Sent: Saturday, August 25, 2018 1:22 PM
To: Mello, Joshuah
Cc: Lauing, Ed; Stump, Molly; Council, City; Kniss, Liz (internal); Scharff, Gregory (internal); Keene, James; Minor, Beth; Lunt, Kimberly; Brettle, Jessica; Carnahan, David;
Kleinberg, Judy; Bill Johnson; Jay Thorwaldson; Dave Price; allison@padailypost.com; emibach@padailypost.com; annaeshoo@mail.house.gov; anne.ream@mail.house.gov;
senator.hill@senate.ca.gov; Alex Kobayashi; supervisor.simitian@bos.sccgov.org; micaela.hellman‐tincher@bos.sccgov.org; vhs101@yahoo.com; richard@alexanderlaw.com;
Aram James; Andrew Pierce; debra@firstpaloalto.com; bear.ride@fprespa.org; chamilton@da.sccgov.org; jrosen@dao.sccgov.org; Goodell, Erin; Jonsen, Robert
Subject: 3rd REQUEST: Palo Alto ‐ Lytton Gardens obliterates FIVE downtown Handicap Spaces




Joshuah Mello
Chief Transportation Official
Palo Alto's Transportation Division

Mr. Mello:

As a quisi-public facility, what legal obligations bind LG to offer Handicap Zones?

With LG's recent destruction of FIVE Handicap Zones, Lytton Gardens --trusted with housing 600 elderly and
compromised souls-- now provides ZERO Handicap Zones !

You have access to an entire department of fancy Palo Alto City attorneys. Your Palo Alto City salary with benefits totals
about $250,000 annually. Taxpayers require direct answers to all questions put to you, and for you to be accountable at
all times.

For the THIRD time, I demand to know,

      "Why has LG been allowed to obliterate FIVE Handicap Zones in front of their main entrance (656 Lytton
                                                   Avenue) ?"

-Danielle Martell
Palo Alto City Council Candidate, 2016 & 2005




From: D Martell <dmpaloalto@gmail.com>
Date: Thursday, August 16, 2018
Subject: Palo Alto - Lytton Gardens obliterates FIVE downtown Handicap Parking Spaces
To: roberta.ahlquist@sjsu.edu
Cc: Joshuah.Mello@cityofpaloalto.org, Ed <evlauing@yahoo.com>, Molly <Molly.Stump@cityofpaloalto.org>, City <city.council@cityofpaloalto.org>, "Kniss, Liz
(internal)" <liz.kniss@cityofpaloalto.org>, "Scharff, Gregory (internal)" <greg.scharff@cityofpaloalto.org>, James <James.Keene@cityofpaloalto.org>, "Minor, Beth"
<beth.minor@cityofpaloalto.org>, "Kleinberg, Judy" <Judy@paloaltochamber.com>, Bill Johnson <BJohnson@paweekly.com>, Jay Thorwaldson
<jaythor@well.com>, Dave Price <price@baydailypost.com>, Allison@padailypost.com, EmiBach@padailypost.com, Jason Green
<jgreen@dailynewsgroup.com>, AnnaEshoo@mail.house.gov, Anne.Ream@mail.house.gov, Senator.Hill@senate.ca.gov, Alex Kobayashi
<Alex.Kobayashi@sen.ca.gov>, Supervisor.Simitian@bos.sccgov.org, Micaela.Hellman-
Tincher@bos.sccgov.org, VHS101@yahoo.com, WILPF.peninsula.paloalto@gmail.com, richard@alexanderlaw.com, Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com>, Andrew
Pierce
                                                                                       3
<apierce@pierceshearer.com>, Debra@firstpaloalto.com, Bear.ride@fprespa.org, CHamilton@da.sccgov.org, JRosen@dao.sccgov.org, Erin.Goodell@cityofpalo
alto.org, Robert.Jonsen@cityofpaloalto.org




Professor Roberta Ahlquist
WILPF, Low-Income Housing Committee

Dear Professor Ahlquist:

Thank you for speaking out for Palo Alto City Government accountability and transparency. I believe City of Palo Alto's Chief
Transportation Official Joshuah Mello should be admonished for his poor stewardship over public need.

As aquasi-public facility supported by HUD funding, Lyttons Garden Senior Communities is a type of corporation in the private sector
that is backed by a branch of government that has a public mandate to provide for the needs of the public.

Respectfully,
-Danielle
---------------------------
Danielle Martell
dmPaloAlto@gmail.com




From: Roberta Ahlquist <roberta.ahlquist@sjsu.edu>
Date: Thu, Aug 16, 2018 at 1:34 PM
Subject: 5 Handicapped parking spaces
To: Joshuah.Mello@cityofpaloalto.org




Dear Mr. Mello,

I would like an explanation for why these five spots have been removed: 1. Under what guidelines, 2. Who made this decision? 3. Why?

Sincerely,
Roberta Ahlquist
for the WILPF Low-Income Housing Committee




From: D Martell <dmpaloalto@gmail.com>
Date: Wed, Aug 15, 2018 at 7:57 PM
Subject: Palo Alto - Lytton Gardens obliterates FIVE downtown Handicap Parking Spaces
To: Joshuah.Mello@cityofpaloalto.org
Cc: Ed <evlauing@yahoo.com>, Molly <Molly.Stump@cityofpaloalto.org>, City <city.council@cityofpaloalto.org>, "Kniss, Liz (internal)"
<liz.kniss@cityofpaloalto.org>, "Scharff, Gregory (internal)" <greg.scharff@cityofpaloalto.org>, James <James.Keene@cityofpaloalto.org>, "Minor, Beth"
<beth.minor@cityofpaloalto.org>, "Kleinberg, Judy" <Judy@paloaltochamber.com>, Bill Johnson <BJohnson@paweekly.com>, Jay Thorwaldson
<jaythor@well.com>, Dave Price <price@baydailypost.com>, Allison@padailypost.com, EmiBach@padailypost.com, Jason Green
<jgreen@dailynewsgroup.com>, AnnaEshoo@mail.house.gov, Anne.Ream@mail.house.gov, Senator.Hill@senate.ca.gov, Alex Kobayashi
<Alex.Kobayashi@sen.ca.gov>, Supervisor.Simitian@bos.sccgov.org, Micaela.Hellman-
Tincher@bos.sccgov.org, VHS101@yahoo.com, WILPF.peninsula.paloalto@gmail.com, richard@alexanderlaw.com, Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com>, Andrew
Pierce
<apierce@pierceshearer.com>, Debra@firstpaloalto.com, Bear.ride@fprespa.org, CHamilton@da.sccgov.org, JRosen@dao.sccgov.org, Erin.Goodell@cityofpalo
alto.org




Joshuah Mello

Chief Transportation Official

Palo Alto's Transportation Division




                                                                              4
Mr. Mello:


Don't ask me to do your job; you have the address.

         Handicapped must come first.

This downtown Palo Alto property has, at minimum, a quasi-public nature given their Mission Statement and the Founding Documents for
Lytton Gardens Senior Communities.

-Danielle Martell
dmPaloAlto@gmail.com




From: Mello, Joshuah <Joshuah.Mello@cityofpaloalto.org>
Date: Wed, Aug 15, 2018 at 4:38 PM
Subject: RE: Lytton Gardens obliterates FIVE downtown Handicap Parking Spaces
To: D Martell <dmpaloalto@gmail.com>




Ms. Martell:




Thank you for writing. Is this within the public right‐of‐way (on‐street parking) or in the private Lytton Gardens parking lot?




Regards,




                  JOSHUAH D. MELLO, AICP
                  Chief Transportation Official

                  OFFICE OF TRANSPORTATION

                  Joshuah.Mello@CityofPaloAlto.org

                  office: 650.329.2520
                  fax: 650.329.2154




From: D Martell [mailto:dmpaloalto@gmail.com]

                                                                           5
Date: Mon, August 13, 2018 5:34 PM


Subject: Lytton   Gardens obliterates FIVE downtown Handicap Parking Spaces



cc: Lauing, Ed <evlauing@yahoo.com>; Council, City <city.council@cityofpaloalto.org>; Keene, James <James.Keene@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Stump, Molly
<Molly.Stump@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Bill Johnson <BJohnson@paweekly.com>; Jay Thorwaldson <jaythor@well.com>; Dave Price
<price@baydailypost.com>; Allison@padailypost.com; EmiBach@padailypost.com; Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com>



To: Mello, Joshuah <Joshuah.Mello@CityofPaloAlto.org>




Joshuah Mello

Chief Transportation Official

Palo Alto's Transportation Division

Dear Mr. Mello:

Why has Palo Alto's downtown Lytton Gardens Senior Communities (LG), 656 Lytton Avenue, been allowed to obliterate five (5) Handicap
Parking spaces in front of their entrance?

This includes paved asphalt sans parking lines, and red curbs. For decades, PAPD ticketed autos without Handicap Plaques that parked in
front of LG. --Two of the five former parking spots share a LG dumpster. Together, the site of all five former parking spaces resembles an
expanding entryway for LG, and add greatly to the aesthetics of their building.

Curious minds want to know why FIVE downtown Handicap Zones have "vanished like a fart on the breeze".




Please respond.




Sincerely,

-Danielle Martell

dmPaloAlto@gmail.com




                                                                                    6
7
Carnahan, David

From:                 Ben Stolpa <jben@stolpa.com>
Sent:                 Tuesday, August 28, 2018 10:35 AM
To:                   Council, City
Cc:                   Bob Wenzlau
Subject:              Request to Modify 2018 Zero Waste Plan and GreenWaste Contract Negotiations


City Council, Palo Alto:

The long, detailed, and well thought out letter by Bob Wenzlau submitted for the Council’s consideration and adoption
as a point of negotiation and inclusion in any new contract with Green Waste has my strong support.

As a long time resident of Palo Alto I also feel this community must take a leadership role in ascertaining the proper end
management of trash by Green Waste and its downstream handlers of that waste. Otherwise Palo Alto is involved in
what is an environmental sham, a feel‐good exercise, of waste management. The reality may be, given the enormity of
the problem and the international scope of the activity, that our city may not be able to effect a solution on its own.
Nevertheless, the discussion must begin, the problem identified, ideas generated, and the first steps taken…….and
please, please, don’t just issue a “proclamation."

Ben Stolpa
jben@stolpa.com
Forest Avenue
Palo Alto




                                                             1
Carnahan, David

From:                LOUIS FRIED <llfried@sbcglobal.net>
Sent:                Tuesday, August 28, 2018 4:37 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Ross Road


If you think that we have forgotten the Ross Road fiasco, wait until the election.




                                                             1
Carnahan, David

From:                 Judy Jennings <judyjm2@verizon.net>
Sent:                 Monday, August 27, 2018 5:02 PM
To:                   Council, City
Subject:              STOP JUST CAUSE EVICTION


Do not pass this law. It will undermine all rental properties in Palo Alto !!!

Judy Jennings Moritz
Keller Williams Realty
BRE# 00602617
Mobile: 650‐619‐6600




                                                               1
Carnahan, David

From:                Edie Keating <edie.keating100@gmail.com>
Sent:                Monday, August 27, 2018 5:17 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Support for the Urgency Ordinance


Dear Palo Alto City Council ‐ I hope that tonight you will move forward with an urgency ordinance to better support
situations such as the President Hotel. I look forward to later and fuller discussion of options for permanent and more
complete renter protections.

Thank you, Edie Keating




                                                            1
Carnahan, David

From:              mwilliams <moniwilliams@yahoo.com>
Sent:              Wednesday, August 29, 2018 8:53 AM
To:                ParkRec Commission; Howard, Adam
Cc:                Council, City
Subject:           Thank you for Court Policy Update



Chair McDougall, Palo Alto Parks and Recreation Commissioners, Adam Howard,

Thank you for voting in favor of recommending to the Palo Alto City Council to approve updating the Court
Use Policy to include Pickleball.

Thank you, Adam, for the enormous amount of time that you spent working on updating the policy.

I’d like to make some important points that may not have been heard at the meeting.

Pickleball is Noisy: Because of the noise factor of pickleball, we need a facility far enough away from
residences so as not to disturb their peace.

No Other Choice: Mitchell Park is the only park in Palo Alto that meets the above criterion. Tennis players
are fortunate because they have a choice of playing on any of the other 40 tennis courts in Palo Alto, including
the 4 newly resurfaced lighted courts at Mitchell. Pickleballers have no other choice.

Portable Nets: Every time we play, we have to put up, and remove, as many as 11 portable nets which we
have stored in a locker outside the courts. These nets weigh 25 lbs.

Classes: Since April, 2017 I, personally, in a volunteer capacity, have taught 54 City Pickleball Classes on
courts 5, 6 and 7 and have had to put up the portable nets for every one of them. Currently I am teaching 2
classes a week for 16 weeks and proposing to teach a Youth class next season. Please act on the following:

Save Money: Courts 5, 6, and 7, are due to be resurfaced soon. It makes perfect economic sense to install 4
permanent pickleball nets on court 5 at the same time this work is done.

Palo Alto Pickleball Club: Going forward, please refer to our club as the Palo Alto Pickleball Club. We have
over 360 members and 40% are Palo Alto residents. Our base is at Mitchell Park so the board felt that changing
our name from the Silicon Valley Pickleball Club more accurately reflect our demographics.

Sincerely,

Monica




Monica Williams
USAPA Ambassador
Pal Alto Pickleball Club                                1
SVPC President
(650)254-1041
Carnahan, David

From:                 Pat Marriott <patmarriott@sbcglobal.net>
Sent:                 Tuesday, August 28, 2018 4:38 PM
To:                   Council, City
Cc:                   Al Mollica
Subject:              THANK YOU for signing with Pets in Need!


Council Members:
I am so grateful to you all for voting to let Pets in Need take over the animal shelter. This is a wonderful outcome for
animals and those who love them.
           Pat Marriott




                                                             1
Carnahan, David

From:             Dave Warner <dwar11@gmail.com>
Sent:             Friday, August 24, 2018 3:11 PM
To:               Council, City
Subject:          Thank you!



Dear Mayor Kniss and City Council members,

Thank you for the huge amount of time you gave to the Bay Delta Plan last Monday
night along with your groundwork, questions, and at the end of the discussion, your
commentaries. In line with what Peter Drekmeier said, that was the most robust public
debate for all of the Bay Delta Plan meetings I was fortunate enough to attend. It also
seems to me that your voting was strongly in line with the beliefs of our
community. Thank you.

Two lesser comments:

It seems like Greg Schmid is no longer a good representative for us at BAWSCA. While
he has been a valuable contributor to Palo Alto, in this particular instance it would be
good for him to move on.

To the question that was asked about our advanced purified water and our IPR study
(that staff did not answer well): My understanding is that Palo Alto uses roughly 10
mgd, that there's presently no consideration of DPR which staff brought up, but that
advanced purified water could supply up to 4 mgd for IPR, that a key cost and time issue
was pipe to get the water to the right places for putting in the ground, and that no
timeline had been discussed but it is likely 10+ years given how long projects take. Of
course it is terrific that Palo Alto has this study in progress.

With kind regards,

Dave Warner




                                                    1
Carnahan, David

From:               Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com>
Sent:               Tuesday, August 28, 2018 7:30 PM
To:                 Kniss, Liz (internal); gkirby@redwoodcity.org; jrosen@da.sccgov.org; myraw@smcba.org;
                    dcbertini@menlopark.org; Jonsen, Robert; paloaltofreepress@gmail.com;
                    stevendlee@alumni.duke.edu; HRC; apardini@cityofepa.org; jalcaraz@cityofepa.org;
                    mdiaz@redwoodcity.org; ibain@redwoodcity.org; wilpf.peninsula.paloalto@gmail.com; Council, City;
                    chuckjagoda1@gmail.com; Perron, Zachary; cromero@cityofepa.org; molly.o'neal@pdo.sccgov.org;
                    roberta.ahlquist@sjsu.edu; michael.gennaco@oirgroup.com; council@redwoodcity.org;
                    joe.simitian@bos.sccgov.org; cindy.chavez@bos.sccgov.org; Binder, Andrew;
                    stephanie@dslextreme.com; rabrica@cityofepa.org; drutherford@cityofepa.org;
                    epatoday@epatoday.org; acisneros@capublicrecordslaw.com; essenceoftruth@gmail.com;
                    lgauthier@cityofepa.org; lmoody@cityofepa.org; cmartinez@cityofepa.org; sscott@scscourt.org;
                    rpichon@scscourt.org; bwalsh@scscourt.org; dryan@scscourt.org; sdremann@paweekly.com;
                    scharpentier@cityofepa.org; mbuell@cityofepa.org; Kilpatrick, Brad; Minor, Beth; Constantino, Mary;
                    Van Der Zwaag, Minka; Zelkha, Mila; JIM MINKLER1; Doug Fort; griffinam@sbcglobal.net;
                    gerrygras@earthlink.net; bjohnson@paweekly.com; denkafer1@yahoo.com
Subject:            2 things you didn’t know about police violence in California




        From: Yoel Haile, ACLU Foundations of CA <MeetYourDA@acluca.org>
        Date: August 28, 2018 at 2:59:50 PM PDT
        To: Aram <abjpd1@gmail.com>
        Subject: 2 things you didn’t know about police violence in California
        Reply‐To: Yoel Haile, ACLU Foundations of CA <MeetYourDA@acluca.org>


                                                     View this email in your browser




                    Hey Aram,




                                                           1
Last year, California police killed 162 people — only half of whom had a
gun. Here’s what you might not know.



   1. When it comes to releasing police records, California is one of the most
       secretive states in the country.1
   2. California has the oldest untouched use-of-force law in the nation — it
       hasn’t been amended since 1872!2



Today, we have the opportunity to make some long overdue changes to
these laws. It’s time to keep Californians safe and hold our police
accountable. Here’s how.




Under California law, it is currently legal to block the public — and district
attorneys — from finding out about police misconduct.


Right now, a bill is up for vote in the California senate that would make police
disciplinary records available to the public — including sexual assault, lying on
the job, falsifying records, and planting evidence — and would increase public

                                  2
access to records or investigations of police killings.1


Californians have a right to know about police misconduct. Call your
California assemblymember and ask them to vote yes on SB-1421.




                             TAKE ACTION


But it’s not enough just to shine a light on police violence. We have to put an
end to it.


Under current law, police officers may use any kind of force they believe
is “reasonable”, regardless of the crime, whether the person is armed, or
whether they pose a threat to the officer or another person. These laws
also make it more difficult for district attorneys to press criminal charges in fatal
use-of-force episodes.3


The California State Assembly has introduced a bill to update these laws and
prevent unnecessary killings. This bill would require that officers only use lethal
force when necessary to prevent imminent and serious bodily injury or death
and when no non-lethal alternatives are available.2


Police should never kill when they have alternatives. Call on your state
assemblymember to support, AB 931, the Police Accountability and
Community Protection Act.




                             TAKE ACTION


                                   3
Onwards!


Yoel Haile
Manager, Meet Your DA Project
ACLU Foundations of California




Sources:
1. California lawmakers to decide fate of police accountability bills, San
Francisco Chronicle, August 15, 2018
2. California Cops Shot and Killed 162 People Last Year. This Bill Could Help
Reduce the Bloodshed, Mother Jones, August 16, 2018
3. Prosecutors face a high bar for charges against officers in shootings, San
Francisco Chronicle, May 24, 2018




             Copyright © 2018 Project of ACLU Foundations of CA, All rights reserved.
                You are receiving this email because you opted in via our website.


                                    Our mailing address is:
                                    ACLU Foundations of CA
                                        39 Drumm Street
                                 San Francisco, California 94111


                                  Add us to your address book




                         Want to change how you receive these emails?
                  You can update your preferences or unsubscribe from this list.




                                       4
Carnahan, David

From:             Neilson Buchanan <cnsbuchanan@yahoo.com>
Sent:             Monday, August 27, 2018 5:07 PM
To:               Council, City
Cc:               Michael Harbour; Lait, Jonathan; Architectural Review Board
Subject:          429 University and 480 Lytton



Due to personal and family time constraints, I have not been able to follow thru on my concerns on
several downtown developments. Here are two concerns deserving your attention:

429 University Avenue
One of my neighbors Michael Harbour has a concern about city approval process. He feels that the
demolition permit is premature and requires a review process set by City Council in February
2017. Most residents, including myself, are not in a position to understand this level of detail. Few of
us have resources to seek independent counsel on basic staff and commission
responsibilities. Michael Harbour is not only a DTN resident; he is also a property owner within the
University Avenue commercial core.

480 Lytton
I have formally presented my concerns to Planning Department via a code enforcement submission 5
months ago. There are at least two issues.

What is the process for following up with code enforcement issues submitted via the city
website. What is reasonable timeline for review and feedback to a citizen raising questions? Is it the
citizen's responsibility to track down enforcement personnel for response.

Primary responsibility resides in plan review by the Planning Department. Palo Alto has citizens who
are reasonably competent in understanding planning details and applicable regulations. I am
awaiting more specific staff response to unanswered details. Due to the upcoming holiday, some
delay is acceptable but questions have been lingering from Code Enforcement and Planning
Department for over 5 months.

Although the number of parking spaces in question is small, the issue that parking supply and
demand within the commercial core is not self-correcting and seems to place greater and pressure
upon spillover into the residential neighborhoods.

There are several other issues that I could mention but these two projects deserve your attention. I
see too often a pattern of staff decisions and recommendations seemingly leaning toward developers'
advantage contrary to balance of interest stated in the Comp Plan.



Neilson Buchanan
155 Bryant Street
Palo Alto, CA 94301

650 329-0484
650 537-9611 cell
                                                         1
Carnahan, David

From:                Lenore Cymes <lenraven1@gmail.com>
Sent:                Monday, August 27, 2018 3:35 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             429 University Ave


Dear Council Members

I just learned about the staff position to tear down 429 University Ave BEFORE a new building is even designed and
approved. Are we suppose to find this as an asset to our main thoroughfare in the city? Once the building is torn down,
‐ after a very short time, people will get disgusted with the empty space and start hammering for a new structure. This
makes the requirement to how a new structure will work for University Ave will be compromised.

No matter how one works this ‐ the cart has never been able to be in front and pull the horse. We, as residents
deserved more attention to this process. I can’t imagine how and why you would ‐ under any circumstances ‐ approve
this to happen. Making one developer happy, at the expense of so many people who care deeply about what PA looks
like is not what the City Council should allow

Proceedure :    Design the Building ‐ Developer
               Approval ‐ Planning Commission
               Guideline to build approval ‐ Permit department
               Destruction of the old bulding
               Rebuild when approval is fully finalized

Anything else is lopsided and makes absolutely no sense.

Thank you
Lenore Cymes
Wildwood Lane




                                                           1
Carnahan, David

From:               Cheryl Lilienstein <clilienstein@me.com>
Sent:               Sunday, August 26, 2018 3:31 PM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            429 University


Dear City council,
Demolition permits are not allowed prior to approved plans, right? So why is Planning Dept issuing one for 429
University when the ARB rejected the most recent design? We've had experience with this in the past: developers
demolish then leave eyesores until they get what they want because people are tired of piles of debris, garbage, porta
potties, and equipment piling up. Please require Ms Wong to go through the process you already outlined.
We are counting on you to enforce your own decisions.
Cheryl Lilienstein
Sent from my iPhone




                                                           1
Carnahan, David

From:                D Martell <dmpaloalto@gmail.com>
Sent:                Tuesday, August 28, 2018 2:09 PM
To:                  Eggleston, Brad
Cc:                  Council, City; Kleinberg, Judy; Keene, James; Shikada, Ed; Minor, Beth; Brettle, Jessica; Kniss, Liz
                     (internal); Scharff, Gregory (internal); Drekmeier, Peter; Bill Johnson; Jay Thorwaldson; Dave Price;
                     Allison@padailypost.com; EmiBach@padailypost.com; Anne.Ream@mail.house.gov; Alex Kobayashi;
                     Supervisor.Simitian@bos.sccgov.org; richard@alexanderlaw.com
Subject:             URGENT -- Power Wash downtown University Avenue




Mr. Brad Eggleston
Public Works Director
City of Palo Alto

Dear Mr. Egglestone:

University Avenue is long overdue to receive a Power Washing.

As a life-long resident, I have never seen the sidewalks so black and dingy with filth and grime. For some time, Palo Alto
locals, shopkeepers, and visitors are complaining to me because they're totally grossed out by downtown's neglect. I
speak for my community when I say, downtown Palo Alto deserves better treatment.

As the newly-promoted Public Works Director (late-July), I appeal to you to take charge and Power Wash our beautiful
University Avenue.

 Please respond.

Respectfully,
-Danielle Martell
Palo Alto City Council candidate, 2016 & 2005




                                                            1
Carnahan, David

From:                    Michael Harbour <dr.mharbour@gmail.com>
Sent:                    Saturday, August 25, 2018 9:27 PM
To:                      Council, City
Subject:                 Urgent: 429 University Ave Demolition Permit issued without final ARB design approval


Dear Esteemed City Council Members:

I was informed by Jodie Gerhardt from the the Palo Alto Planning Department that it plans to issue a permit to Elizabeth
Wong to demolish the existing Birge Clark buildings at the 429 University Avenue site. This decision is premature and is
contrary to your motion on February 6, 2017. At that time, the council mandated the applicant to pursue building
Option 1 and then proceed to ARB approval of the western wall design, landscaping, and exterior building materials, colors, and
craftsmanship. The applicant failed to submit any plans during the first year after your motion. She applied and was granted a one year
extension by the planning department. Finally after 18 months (and at risk of losing any opportunity to develop the site), she appeared
before the ARB on August 18, 2018 and was unprepared. The ARB unanimously denied her design. They said it was incomplete and not
coherent. She has fired her architect, Joe Bellomo, who is just one in a long line of fired architects. He has publicly disavowed himself of
the building and the design. The building may not be appropriately designed at this time, and It is unclear if the applicant can even follow
through on the original building proposal that they put forth to the city council since that architect is no longer involved. It is too important
of a site to make such a mistake.

The applicant, Ms. Wong, has been afforded every opportunity to comply with your motion and she has failed to do so. I believe that the
planning department is inappropriately assisting her. They already granted her a one year extension. They have removed all adjacent
heritage trees. Now they are going to grant a demolition permit before the design is even approved! This is simply wrong and ignores the
intent behind the appeal and the council's motion.

I urge all of you to contact Jonathan Lait and put a stop to this egregious failure to comply with your motion. The applicant and planning
department must follow your instructions or risk further litigation from neighbors and residents. I would appreciate a response as soon as
possible.

Sincerely,

Michael Harbour, MD, MPH
Lead appellant on behalf of 429 University Ave Appellants




                                                                        1
Carnahan, David

From:                Michael Harbour <dr.mharbour@gmail.com>
Sent:                Sunday, August 26, 2018 9:28 PM
To:                  Council, City
Cc:                  Keene, James; Lait, Jonathan; Stump, Molly; Adam Petersen
Subject:             URGENT: 429 University Ave Relevant Motion Documents
Attachments:         Council Motion_2-6-17.pdf; Staff Report_2-6-17.pdf


Dear City Council,

Given the lengthy duration of this issue and the numerous documents associated with this case, I'm attaching the
following relevant documents with highlighted passages for the proposed 429 University Avenue development to
simplify your review. The city council mandated a set of rules (set as conditions) for the applicant to follow. The
applicant has not met those obligations. Staff was required to submit written findings to the City Council as part of the
approved Motion which it has not done. At this time, there is no reason whatsoever that the Planning Department
should issue demolition and building permits until all obligations and findings have been met. The historic resources
(Birge Clark buildings) should not be demolished until there is 100% certainty that all obligations have been met. I
appreciate your attention to this matter.

Sincerely,
Michael Harbour, MD, MPH
Lead Appellant for 429 University Ave

Attachments:

1. City Council Motion Minutes from February 6, 2017.
   a. ARB Member Alex Lew tells City Council that the ARB has not seen a complete rendering of Option #1 (thereby
indicating that it still needs ARB review).
   b. Motion for Building Option #1 is approved to be set for further development. (complete PDF transcript
pages 1‐52; motion on PDF pages 48‐49).
   c. Approved Motion references three pages of recommendations within Staff Report that are to be incorporated into
the final Motion (pages 527‐529 in original packet or PDF pages 5‐8).
   d. Ms. Gitelman (planner) states, "We do have a condition that we're suggesting, that's been incorporated into the
Motion, that the applicant would return to the Architectural Review Board for review and recommendations..." (PDF
page 45)
   e. Final passed motion (PDF pages 42, 48‐49). Motion includes conditions and directs Staff to return with the written
findings of adoption.

2. Staff Report from February 6, 2017. Contains the specific items mentioned in the passed Motion. (see pages 5‐8).
  1. Applicant shall submit detailed plans for floor area and development standards
  2. 4th floor guardrails and plantars to be set back
  3. Library to be removed
  4. Third floor roofline to be set back to follow third floor building footprint
  5. Decorative wall design treatment, feature or element to be applied and have ARB approval
  6. Elevator on Kipling St. no to exceed 50 feet
  7. Applicant to return to ARB for review and recommendations for landscaping review
  8. Applicant to return to ARB for review and recommendation to Director of Planning of building
materials, colors, and craftsmanship related detailing associated with building
                                                             1
   9. Also recommended ARB consider recessed pedestrian entries as ARB has consistently sought to
improve the pedestrian experience of this building, but there has been little refinement of the feature over
the different iterations.

3. The staff recommendations state "it should be noted that all of the options in this report will be subject to
more detailed review for code compliance at the building permit state, if/when a single design option has
been advanced." (PDF page 8)

3. ARB Hearing video link from August 16, 2018. The ARB unanimously denies the submitted design. Relevant video
starts at 1:30:35 within the clip
   http://midpenmedia.org/architectural‐review‐board‐74‐2‐3‐2‐2‐2‐2‐2‐2‐2‐2‐2/




                                                        2
                         TRANSCRIPT
schedule a contractor to perform the abatement. If we then still have to
actually perform the abatement, it's the cost of the abatement plus $434 to
cover our costs because I'm here tonight as I am in several other
jurisdictions. There is a lot of work involved in what we have to do to ensure
that we're, one, dealing with the correct property owner, which is part of
what I said we would take care of, making sure we weren't in the wrong
spot, and to run through the process of being able to help people in case,
like I said, there could be a misunderstanding or any of those things that we
would like to address and make sure that we're accurate.

Council Member Kou: Thank you.

Mayor Scharff: With that, seeing no further lights, I will move the Staff
recommendation which is to adopt the attached Resolution, Attachment A,
ordering the abatement of weed nuisances in the City of Palo Alto.

Council Member Holman: Second.

MOTION: Mayor Scharff moved, seconded by Council Member Holman to
adopt a Resolution ordering the abatement of weed nuisances in the City of
Palo Alto.

Mayor Scharff: Second by Council Member Holman. If we could vote on the
board. That passes unanimously with Vice Mayor Kniss absent.

MOTION PASSED: 8-0 Kniss absent

Mayor Scharff: I forgot to mention that Vice Mayor Kniss wanted me to say
that the reason she is absent is she has a family emergency that she needed
to take care of. That's why she's not here tonight.

11.   PUBLIC HEARING: 429 University Avenue [14PLN-00222]:                To
      Consider a Continued Appeal of the Director of Planning and
      Community Environment’s Architectural Review Approval of a 31,407
      Square-foot, Four Story, Mixed use Building With Parking Facilities on
      two Subterranean Levels on an 11,000 Square-foot Site.
      Environmental Assessment: the Mitigated Negative Declaration was
      Circulated November 17, 2014 to December 12, 2014.             Zoning
      District: CD-C (GF)(P). The Council Previously Considered This Appeal
      on November 30, 2015 and Remanded it to the Architectural Review
      Board for Redesign and Further Review Based on Council’s Direction.

Mayor Scharff:   Now, we're moving onto Item Number 11.          We are
approximately 30 minutes behind schedule already. Does Staff have—let me
go through a couple of things first. I knew we had something. A couple of
                                                                        Page 27 of 78
                                                                 City Council Meeting
                                                                   Transcript: 2/6/17
                         TRANSCRIPT
things. This is a public hearing on 429 University Avenue, to consider a
continued appeal of the Director's Architectural Review approval of a four-
story mixed-use building. The Council previously considered this appeal on
November 30th, 2015, and remanded it to the Architectural Review Board
for redesign and further review based on the Council's direction. I wanted to
review a little bit the procedure so everyone understands what we're doing
tonight and everyone has a clear concept. The first thing is we'll do Council
disclosures. Then, we're going to have a Staff presentation. Then, the
appellant will have 10 minutes to present, and then the applicant will have
10 minutes to present. Then, we'll take public comment. It's going to be
three minutes per speaker. Don't feel you have to use all three minutes.
After public comments, the appellant and the applicant will each have three
minutes for rebuttal. After we close the public comments, we'll do a round
of Council questions and comments before we move onto general Council
motions. First, we'll start with the Council disclosures of any ex parte
communications. I, first of all, see Council Member Tanaka's light on.

Council Member Tanaka: The first question is actually for the City Attorney.
As the City Attorney knows, I have received a donation from the applicant.
Is there any legal reason that I need to recuse myself from this meeting?

Molly Stump, City Attorney:       Based on that fact, there's not a legal
requirement for recusal in this matter.

Council Member Tanaka: I do have some disclosures. Even though I'm not
legally required to recuse myself, I decided because of the proximity of time
of when I received the donation that I would return it. I did contact the
applicant to return the donation. I talked to also the appellant, Michael
Harbour. I spoke to him for about maybe 40 minutes, maybe almost an
hour. What I learned in the meeting was that he opposed the project
because he said it has too much square footage. The project was too large.
That was his primary reason for opposing this project. I subsequently had
an email exchange with Molly Stump copied on it where he was asking to
meet with me in person. I told him that I would follow the policy I did on
the PTC, which was that I would only meet with him if he would also meet
with the applicant at the same time. He basically declined to do that and
basically said that—he basically compared it to having a rape victim meet
their rapist, which I didn't quite understand, but that was his comment.
Those are the only disclosures I have. Thank you.

Mayor Scharff: Council Member DuBois.

Council Member DuBois: I had a short, probably about 10-minute, phone
call with the appellant over a week ago. He notified me that Option 3 in the

                                                                       Page 28 of 78
                                                                City Council Meeting
                                                                  Transcript: 2/6/17
                          TRANSCRIPT
Packet was submitted after the last ARB meeting. He asked about recusals,
and I pointed him to the public internet where there are descriptions of
conflict of interest. Other than that, I did not learn anything that's not in the
public record.

Mayor Scharff: Council Member Fine.

Council Member Fine: Thank you. I have met the applicant at social
gatherings, I believe, at the Rotary Club, where she indicated she wanted a
fair hearing. I responded to the appellant, and we did set up a meeting.
After seeing where this was going, I canceled that meeting. I didn't learn
anything from either of them outside of the record, just that both of them
want a fair hearing. I appreciate them reaching out.

Mayor Scharff: Council Member Holman.

Council Member Holman: I had a couple of brief exchanges with the
appellant. There was a message left for me, looking for contact information
for, as I recall it, a couple of Council Members for whom contact information
he was not able to find. By the time I could get back to him, he found them
in other ways. The other communication I had from him, when I did speak
with him, was that he contacted me regarding meeting procedures for
appellants, was it required that the appellant, the applicant and the City
Attorney all be present for a meeting with a Council Member regarding a
project as had been requested of him. I indicated I was not aware of any
such requirements. That would be something new to me.

Mayor Scharff: Council Member Wolbach.

Council Member Wolbach: I'm not sure if it's required at this point, but I
may as well just mention that prior to, I think, our last discussion about this
project back in 2015, I spoke with the applicant and also met with the
appellant and did a site tour with the appellant. Nothing new since that
time.

Mayor Scharff: Council Member Kou.

Council Member Kou: I had a phone call with the appellant. He just wanted
to catch me up and find out if I was up-to-date on this project. I told him I
was.

Mayor Scharff: Seeing no other lights except my own, I also had a short
phone call with the appellant, Michael Harbour. Mr. Harbour informed me—
we spoke about 10 minutes—about his opposition to the project. He thought
it was incompatible with the Victorians on Kipling Street. That was basically
                                                                          Page 29 of 78
                                                                   City Council Meeting
                                                                     Transcript: 2/6/17
                         TRANSCRIPT
the substance of the call. I did receive a voice mail from the applicant,
talking about procedural issues regarding whether or not—why she did not
want to put this matter off to a later date. With that, I think I'll now open
the public hearing and first invite the Staff presentation.

Public Hearing opened at 8:20 P.M.

Jonathan Lait, Planning and Community Environment Assistant Director:
Thank you, Mayor, and good evening, City Council. My name is Jonathan
Lait. I'm the Assistant Director to the Planning and Community Environment
Department. I'm joined by Director Hillary Gitelman and Mr. Petersen from
M Group. He's our consulting planner, who has assisted us with this project.
The Item that is before you this evening is an appeal of an Architectural
Review Board approval for a proposed four-story, mixed-use project located
at 429 University. The project includes two levels of subterranean parking,
ground-floor retail and office and residential above that. The project was
filed about—it was filed in June 2014 formally. The project received three
formal hearings before the Architectural Review Board before the Director's
decision was rendered in February 2015. An appeal was filed. City Council
had pulled the Item off of Consent and scheduled it for a hearing. It had a
hearing in May. At the hearing in May, the City Council had a number of
questions that were asked, and the Council had remanded the matter to the
Historic Resources Board and to the Architectural Review Board. At that
meeting, the Council had discussed a number of issues related to the
project, project findings, parking, loading zone requirements, the transfer of
development rights, historic resources, and some other issues. The next
couple of meetings before the HRB and the Architectural Review Board
vetted out some of those issues.         It returned to the City Council on
November 30, 2015.         Eleven months since that time, the applicant
proceeded with modifying the project in an effort to respond to those
comments and direction. In September last year, the applicant submitted a
schematic drawing of a design scheme that Staff believed was heading in the
right direction in terms of being responsive to the Council Members'
comments. The Architectural Review Board also was supportive of the
project; although, they did have some critical comments that they had asked
the applicant to follow up on. At the subsequent meeting in October, the
applicant had chosen to go a different path according to comments from
individual Board Members, who felt that the project was actually now taking
a step backwards.        It was on this October 20th meeting that the
Architectural Review Board recommended that the City Council uphold the
appeal and deny the project. Following that action, the applicant submitted
a refined version of that September 1 plan, which Staff is calling Option 1.
Staff believes that that is the option that is most responsive to Council
Member comments. In December, two months later, the applicant had
                                                                        Page 30 of 78
                                                                 City Council Meeting
                                                                   Transcript: 2/6/17
                         TRANSCRIPT
submitted a third version, the third being an iteration of Option 1 that added
another approximately 2,600 square feet of additional floor area at the
fourth floor. Option 2 in our discussion is going to be the plan that the
Architectural Review Board recommended denial on. That takes us to the
meeting that we're having here this evening. Just to reorient or familiarize
those unfamiliar with the project site, it is located at the corner of Kipling
Street and University Avenue at 429 University. This is a photograph, the
first one, looking southwest down University. The project site is toward the
right, in the center-right of that photograph. The bottom photograph is
taken from Kipling Street and down Lane 30. This is the area behind the
subject project site. It's looking at the subject property; it's the rear
property line.     On November 30th, the City Council gave Staff clear
direction—we should say that the comments that the City Council had
offered at that point were focused on the context and design compatibility.
The City Council gave specific comments with respect to four Context Based
Design Criteria, which are set forth in the Municipal Code that the Council
felt the project needed to respond to and additional Architectural Review
Board findings. With respect to the Context Based Design Criteria, the
Council was concerned that the proposed project—the contextual and
compatible criteria set forth in the Code regarding the siting, scale, and
mass of the project still needed some work; that the compatibility goal in
relation to the pattern of rooflines and projections still needed to be
evaluated; and that the proposed design, the street building facades needed
some additional work to address the human scale and help break up the
building mass.      With respect to direction from the Council regarding
Architectural Review Board findings, the Council expressed concern about
the compatibility and appropriateness of the materials and textures; felt that
the design's compatibility with the area as having a unified design character
had not been achieved; that the design's compatibility with the immediate
environment still needed to be addressed. With respect to that last point,
this is a line diagram. The top part of the slide is showing the proposed
project in relationship to the adjacent one and two-story buildings along
University Avenue.      The below photograph is a street view of those
properties to the southwest or left of that project site. As viewed from
Kipling, the proposed project separated by an alley from the one-story
building on Kipling. As you continue down Kipling, there is the Victorian
architecture that exists on both sides of the street. The photograph below is
the street view of that one-story building looking toward the subject project
site. Here's a summary of the three options that are presented to the City
Council. Again, Option 1 is the one that Staff believes is most responsive to
prior comments and direction.       It has three residential dwelling units.
Option 2 is the one that was rejected by the Architectural Review Board.
That had five residential units. Option 3 is the plan that was submitted in
December by the applicant. This is their plan that they are putting forth as
                                                                        Page 31 of 78
                                                                 City Council Meeting
                                                                   Transcript: 2/6/17
                          TRANSCRIPT
their project. That's the one that they would like to have an action on.
Some renderings of the different options. This is Option 1 as viewed from
University Avenue. We don't have a rendering from Kipling Street as the
applicant chose not to further develop that rendering for Kipling on this
design. However, there is—the rendering for Option 3 is very similar to
Option 1. You'll see that in just a moment. This is the Option 2 plan that
was reviewed by the Board on October 20th and recommended for denial.
Again, just to go back on Option 1 for a moment. The Architectural Review
Board did review a schematic drawing of Option 1 on September 1. That
plan was refined a little bit after the Architectural Review Board made its
decision on this project. This is Option 2 from Kipling. Option 3, the design
that was submitted in December, from University Avenue you can see
there's additional building mass on the roof toward the left of the project. It
also extends further toward the rear property line toward the alley. This is
the view of Option 3 from Kipling Street. This same perspective is very
similar to what we believe to be the Option 1 rendering as viewed from this
perspective. As you shift further down Kipling, you would get a different
perspective of the proposed Option 3 versus Option 1, but that's revealed in
the line drawings. We can walk the Council through that if you're interested.
Here's a collection of the three different options as viewed from University
and viewed from Kipling. Again, we're suggesting that Option 1 and 3 from
this perspective look similar. As I stated previously, Staff believes that
Option 1 is the one that is most responsive to comments from the Council
regarding building mass and transitions. If the Council is interested in
pursuing this option or, frankly, any of the options—actually I would say
Option 1 or Option 3—there are some conditions that Staff has considered.
We've included those in the Staff Report; we can address these specifically if
there's any interest in that.      Again, the Architectural Review Board's
recommending rejection of Option 2. The applicant's proposed alternative,
Option 3, is included with this Packet for the Council's consideration. With
that, Staff recommends that the Council direct the Staff to prepare a Record
of Land Use Action to deny the appeal, approve the Mitigated Negative
Declaration and Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting program, and approve
either Options 1, 2 or 3 with or without conditions. Alternatively, the Council
could choose to uphold the appeal and deny a modified project, Options 1, 2
and 3, based on the ARB's October 20th recommendation and a finding that
the design modifications have not addressed the Council's previous
concerns. Staff would return at a future date with that Record of Land Use
Action to memorialize the Council's action. With that, I will turn it back to
the Mayor. Thank you.

Mayor Scharff: Thank you. With that, we now go to the appellant.
Dr. Harbour, are you here? You'll have 10 minutes.

                                                                         Page 32 of 78
                                                                  City Council Meeting
                                                                    Transcript: 2/6/17
                         TRANSCRIPT
Michael Harbour, Appellant:        Thank you, City Council Members and
Mr. Mayor. Congratulations on your new appointments here, to be sure.
These five buildings are the buildings that are slated to be torn down and the
new development put there.         Listed here are all the appellants; I'm
representing the appellants here this evening. I want to remind people why
we are here. On May 4, 2015, the Council spent a great deal of time making
a Motion to the applicant about what the new plans should entail going
forward. I've summarized these five points. Specifically, the project,
number one, should have design linkages with the overall pattern of
buildings so that the visual unity of both University and—this is important—
Kipling Street are maintained. The plans were to be resubmitted to the ARB,
and the ARB was specifically to look at the compatibility of the immediate
environment; ensure design articulation and setbacks that minimize
massing; to look at the roof, entries, setbacks, mass, and scale; and that
they must conform to the Context Based Design Criteria. The building's
façade shall have greater reinforcement of the relationship of the street.
The upper floors shall have setbacks. Specifically I've highlighted there was
an option of either third or fourth floors approved if they are visually
compatible from the streets and had articulation and setback both from
University and Kipling. The HRB had weighed in on this previously and
unanimously, 5-0, rejected this plan.          Most recently, the ARB 3-0
unanimously rejected the plans as well. Shadow studies and traffic studies
were also indicated. What I want to let you know is that this appeal is
rooted in violation of the Municipal Palo Alto Codes. The Palo Alto Municipal
Code requires harmonious transition in scale and character and that are
considerate of each other, in the Codes listed there. The design should
follow the Context Based Design Criteria. In addition, the building should be
responsive to the context and compatible with adjacent buildings, should
have appropriate transitions, and have visible unity on the street. My
argument has never been on size or square footage alone, as Council
Member Tanaka incorrectly said. The appeal is also rooted in violation of the
Comprehensive Plan and Downtown Development Guidelines. This massive
building discourages the use of Downtown alleyways for pedestrian and
bicycle only use and prevents shops from opening onto the alleyway. That's
listed in the Comprehensive Plan and the Downtown Development Guidelines
very specifically. Just as Centennial Alleyway has been developed to open
up businesses there, this alleyway has been requested to do the same thing.
Finally, Kipling Street is designated a secondary business district. There
should be recognition and consideration for this as well, which has been
ignored. Again, that's part of the Downtown Design Guidelines. We've seen
many, many renditions. The applicant is on the fourth or fifth architect. The
first design was deemed not compatible.               It showed no shared
characteristics or design linkages with the neighboring buildings. You can
see the big white structure there. It was large and massive and detracted
                                                                        Page 33 of 78
                                                                 City Council Meeting
                                                                   Transcript: 2/6/17
                          TRANSCRIPT
from pedestrian-oriented design. The next design was not compatible as
well. The architect just moved the third and fourth floors back to the rear of
the building, just stacking up all the massing at the rear of the building. It
worsened the mass effect from Kipling Street and the alleyway. Today, you
are miraculously being given three different designs with which to choose
from. None of these—I want to point out this. This is so important. None of
these in their exact form have been vetted or approved or even viewed by
the ARB. Option 1, the original was rejected, and this is a modification of
that. The ARB has not seen this or discussed this at all. Option 2 was seen
and rejected. Option 3 has never been seen. If you view and approve
Option 3, this has not even been seen by the ARB. I think it's inappropriate
for you to be acting as architects here and approving a building that's never
been seen by them. This is the scale of mass of this building. The size and
mass is not compatible with the neighboring buildings. This is the view from
Kipling Street. It's a four-plus-story structure. You need to know it's four
stories plus an additional 15 feet for HVAC and elevator shafts. Parts of the
building are 55—excuse me, 65 feet tall. This is the one-story building next
door to it. It just hovers over it. There's no transition. The four-plus-story
building overwhelms its one-story neighbors.            Inappropriate size and
massing, it's a massive building that will shadow Kipling Street and the
alleyway. Then, unfortunately it turns the alleyway into a busy one-way
street to service the in-and-out garage. This is the secondary business
district that's listed in the Downtown Design Guidelines. Whether they are
going to be adhered to or even recognized or given a nod, this is what it
states there, that the Varsity Theatre, which is a mission revival designed
building, is worthy of being consulted and looked at as part of whatever's
across the street. Peet's Coffee is a Spanish mission-style building. It
states right in the Guidelines that the new buildings should have tie-ins to
the Varsity Theatre, which this building does not. I want to show you just
how purposely—I'm saying purposely—misleading the view from the
alleyway is to—the view of this building is from the alleyway. The architect
has designed this brick-layered street, looking like it's a wide promenade
with trees in the alleyway and flowers. The alleyway has no trees, no
flowers at all. It's making this look like this is something that's being viewed
from the front side. It's hard to see, but this corner is directly across the
street from one of the residences on Kipling Street. It's a stairwell. It's a
stairwell and elevator shaft. It's not a pedestrian or business-friendly
corner, and it's not visibly appealing from those across at the residences.
How would you like to look out your front door and see a stairwell or an
elevator shaft? The other thing is this big alcove right here. An alleyway
that has a big alcove (inaudible) people to hide in there. People will be
scared walking down the street. It's just not appropriate, has not been well
thought out. Here's the traffic on Kipling Street as it currently is. These are
recent photos. This photo on the right was given to me by the owners just
                                                                          Page 34 of 78
                                                                   City Council Meeting
                                                                     Transcript: 2/6/17
                         TRANSCRIPT
this week of Vino Locale, who are also one of the appellants here. This is
standing on the front steps of Vino Locale, showing that cars can barely get
by one another. The owner of Vino Locale, JC Andrade, told me that if he
just stands out there long enough these cars keep hitting their side mirrors
against each other. It's just a demolition derby all day long. Putting a big
building with in-and-out traffic on the corner will just make this worse.
Michaela Dieffenbach who has also appeared here before you is against this
building. She says that it's going to—the traffic will destroy her business
here as well as the construction. She owns Stapleton Flowers or Michaela's
Flowers. Then, we have the big, massive wall that will be right across the
street from Yoga Works. The peaceful entrance of Yoga Works destroyed by
the 4 1/2-story, massed building along the alleyway and the in-and-out
traffic. I will save the rest of my short presentation for the summary. What
I'd like to do is have you ask me questions. I've been dealing with this for 2
1/2 years. I know it backwards and forwards. I've become an expert in
Municipal Code, Downtown Development Guidelines, things that I never
thought that I would have to learn before. Again, what we'll talk about in
the summary is some of the ways forward hopefully. I don't think this is the
appropriate way with which to deal with this. Unfortunately the applicants
have stonewalled every attempt of working together. I have attended every
ARB meeting for the past 2 1/2 years. I've attended every meeting with the
architect, and I've met with the applicant multiple times. It is true I asked
not to meet with the applicant again because I've been so harassed and
harangued, been called names, that I did not want to go through that again.
That was my reason that I told Council Member Tanaka that I did not want
to go through that again. Thank you very much for your time.

Mayor Scharff: Thank you. Now, we'll go to the applicant. Applicant's team
will have 10 minutes.

Timothy Kassouni, Attorney for the Applicant: Good evening, Honorable
Mayor Scharff and fellow City Council Members. My name is Timothy
Kassouni of the firm Kassouni Law. I represent the project applicant, Kipling
Post LP. My full comments are contained in my two letters from January
30th and my most recent letter of February 2nd. As will be explained, the
appeal should be denied and Option 3 of the project approved.              My
comments will be followed by those of the project architect wherein the
specific details of the design will be explained. As you can see here, there's
four primary legal aspects to be considered by the City Council. The first is
a taking, which I'll get into a moment. Second is the City has illegally
granted the appellant de facto veto power over the project's design. What
you'll see here on the bottom is the original, approved design by the ARB.
On the top is the Option 3 before the City Council right now. The question
that anybody of a reasonable mind might ask is why is the top project being
                                                                        Page 35 of 78
                                                                 City Council Meeting
                                                                   Transcript: 2/6/17
                          TRANSCRIPT
denied and the bottom one was approved by the ARB. Frankly, there is no
reason other than pure politics. This project has a long history. To me in
reviewing the record, it became very apparent that every step of the way
the appellant simply liked the Victorian design and has used every
conceivable, purely subjective excuse to impede approval.          While it is
appropriate for this City Council to consider the input of the appellant, that
consideration has transmogrified into flat-out veto power in contravention of
State law and the due process rights of Kipling Post. I have a few examples
in my prior correspondence. Here's a few that bear repeating. In email
dated August 31, 2016 between the City's Manager of Current Planning,
Jodie Gerhardt, and the appellant, Ms. Gerhardt seeks the guidance and
approval of the appellant regarding design changes. "If you can also
describe what a compatible building would look like, that would be helpful.
Should it only be two stories next to a one-story, existing building and step-
up from there? Is three stories okay if the roofline is minimized?" In a
November 22, 2016 email to me personally, Planning Director Hillary
Gitelman wrote, "I hope that your client will preview her new plans with
appellant to see if she can resolve his ongoing concerns." Not the concerns
of the ARB, the appellant's concerns. At the March 17, 2016 ARB hearing
regarding one of the numerous design revisions, Chair Gooyer stated, "I
think we're in a situation. We've heard from the person who appealed it to
the City Council. If we recommend a building like this, he'll just appeal it
again." That the City's Architectural Review Board perceives itself as being
held hostage to the whims of the appellant is an abrogation of its role as a
neutral body, and that abrogation and undue deference has unfortunately
permeated the Planning Department. As the Court of Appeal held in Ross
versus City of Yorba Linda in 1991, "In restricting individual rights by
exercise of the police power, neither a municipal corporation nor the State
Legislature itself can deprive an individual of property rights by a plebiscite
of neighbors. Such action is arbitrary and unlawful. In short, an exercise of
approval power cannot be made to depend upon a count of noses." I want
to reserve five minutes for the architectural team. If I could get maybe—
where am I now, four minutes?

Mayor Scharff: Five minutes and (inaudible) seconds.

Mr. Kassouni: I'll just wrap up. This segues into a related constitutional
defect in the City's Code, which imposes so many vague, ambiguous, and
entirely subjective design criteria as to render them unworkable and
meaningless on their face and as applied to Kipling Post. The project
conforms to every objective design criteria. In this case, the vague Codes
have been latched onto by the appellant as the only means by which to
criticize the project. There is no explicit, textual limitations on the City's
discretion. Unbridled discretionary grounds are inherent in phrases such as
                                                                         Page 36 of 78
                                                                  City Council Meeting
                                                                    Transcript: 2/6/17
                         TRANSCRIPT
harmonious transitions, rhythmic patterns, design linkages. In its August
4th ARB hearing, one ARB Board Member felt that the project feels
mysterious. These kinds of vague and unworkable standards should be
rejected. There are also equal protection concerns and taking concerns
under the Fifth Amendment, particularly with respect to the Kipling Post
transferrable development rights. I encourage the City Council to review
those letters. Thank you.

Mayor Scharff: Thank you.

Joseph Bellomo, Project Architect: Good evening. My name's Joseph
Bellomo. I'm the architect for the project. I apologize; I'm not feeling well.
I came down with the flu, but it's important that I'm here. I've lived and
worked on Kipling and University Avenue for 35 years, so I'm familiar with
the fabric of the Downtown. I designed the parking structure for the City of
Palo Alto, the buildings on the circle, 116 and 102 University Avenue, served
on the ARB, served on the Planning Commission here, worked on Johnson
Park design. I love Palo Alto. I'm definitely here to stay. The project that
you're seeing today is eclectic in nature. It's expresses the structural
systems much like the project at 102 University Avenue. It's a sustainable
concrete we've developed. It's a proprietary mix. The building here at 429
has a combination of steel, glass, honest materials expressing the structure
and minimal layering. We'll approach LEED with a platinum here, for sure.
A scale model would be helpful, to bring it up there. You guys want to see
it? You guys okay? There's a (inaudible) in here. It's a 55-foot building
here. Again, I apologize. I'll introduce Pratima Shah, and she'll take it from
here. Thank you.

Pratima Shah, Bellomo Architects: I guess I have only two or three minutes
left. I will quickly …

Mayor Scharff: Two.

Ms. Shah: Two. I will quickly summarize. We have two levels of basement
parking for 17 cars each, first floor retail, second floor commercial, third
floor residential, three residences, and fourth floor one commercial and one
residential unit. This is the program we are proposing for Council's review.
This is the first-floor plan with retail space. We have kept the 20-foot
storefront rhythm that we tried to maintain here. Second floor has 10-foot
setback from the alley side, which can be used as a breakout space for
offices. Third floor has seven-foot eight-inches setback from both Kipling
Street and University Street and 10-foot setback from the alley. Fourth floor
has a maximum setback of 37-foot from the Kipling Street, approximately
20-foot from University Avenue and 10-foot from the alley. This is the

                                                                        Page 37 of 78
                                                                 City Council Meeting
                                                                   Transcript: 2/6/17
                          TRANSCRIPT
elevation from the Kipling side. As you see, the fourth floor is minimally
visible. This is a sustainability slide which explains what we tried to achieve,
basically honest building materials with exposed structure.            This is a
pedestrian-oriented design. What we tried to achieve is zero front and side
line setbacks, building of varied architectural styles which is the eclectic style
of Palo Alto Downtown, attractive street-facing window displays, and
porticoes which demarcate the building entries. As per Municipal Code, we
tried to use the overhangs which protect the openings of the buildings. This
is a view of the alley and Kipling. As you see, we tried to minimize the
massing on the corner of the Kipling and the alley. We have totally
eliminated the mass which was earlier approved and proposed by earlier
revisions. Done?

Mayor Scharff: Thank you.

Ms. Shah: Thank you.

Mayor Scharff: Now we'll return to the public.        Our first speaker is Beth
Bunnenberg, to be followed by Ray Hing.

Beth Bunnenberg:        Hello, members of the City Council.           I'm Beth
Bunnenberg, 2351 Ramona Street in Palo Alto. I'm speaking tonight as an
individual to review with you a little bit of the history of 429 University.
News reports from September of 2015, in those I was quoted as saying that
the new plans for this building changed the whole landscape of that section
of University Avenue. It went on to say that there were several nearby
buildings designed by Birge Clark, who really has been the, in some ways,
architect of Palo Alto. They all have decorative fronts, often tile. Now, right
across Kipling from this proposed building was the Swain Music Company
building, but it probably is better known as the first Apple store. Who can
forget the Apple store with Post-Its? When Steve Jobs died, all those
windows were filled with comments. This is an important building in town.
Across University Avenue, there's several small Birge Clark buildings that are
fairly close to the Varsity Theatre. They also have some tile front. Some of
them might be one building, but it appears to have two fronts. The HRB
comments included the fact that the mass and scale of the building would be
a very negative impact. The HRB voted in early September that the building
plans were not compatible. I ask you to look at these new plans and keep in
mind the concepts that the HRB was working for. Thank you very much.

Mayor Scharff: Thank you. Ray Hing to be followed by Amy Sung.

Yungluy (Ray) Hing: The Honorable Mayor, Council Members, this is my first
time to participate in the City of Palo Alto Council meeting. Officially, my
name is Ray Hing. My official name is Yungluy Hing. Officially I become a
                                                                           Page 38 of 78
                                                                    City Council Meeting
                                                                      Transcript: 2/6/17
                          TRANSCRIPT
resident in February 2016. When I came over here, I met with a group of
Chinese community, group of Chinese living in Palo Alto. They told me two
things. I need to get involved and involved quickly. One is the election in
2016. One is 429 University Avenue. I did study; I did read this thick of the
email. I find out the majority of people that against the building is because
it's massive. It was a different architectural design. If Palo Alto's going to
be the international favorite city for innovation and for going forward in the
future, it's going to have change whatever the environment, the architect.
After looking into it, after talking to (inaudible) Chinese New Year, last
Saturday I believe—I attended so many Chinese New Year party I don't
remember what it is. I come to the conclusion that after two—somebody
said two, somebody said three, somebody four—four years of reviewing all
this, after the changing from Option 1, Option 2, Option 3, one starts
wondering why this is continuing to be delay on deny. Our community
recommend that we go ahead and approve the building and move forward,
looking for the better Palo Alto so all the public including the City can benefit
from this development. Thank you.

Mayor Scharff: Thank you. Amy Sung to be followed by Cheryl Lilienstein.

Amy Sung: Good evening, Mayor, Council Members, Staff. My name is Amy
Sung, and I live in Palo Alto. I'm a realtor, but tonight I'm here standing
before you as somebody who's really interested in the future of Palo Alto.
I'm here to seek and urge you to—I'm here to support the 429 University
project. I urge you to grant it the permit that it seeks. Let me start by
saying that this project really is good for Palo Alto's bottom line while it
helps Palo Alto to achieve the goals that it wishes to achieve. First and
foremost is that it will help with our goal of S/CAP and that is Sustainability
and the Climate Action Plan. A new building is going to reduce the energy
requirement and energy use. In addition to that, it will have to meet all the
Green Building Codes. That will substantially reduce the energy use. That
really fulfills the goal that Palo Alto is seeking. Number Two, this is a mixed-
use building that encompasses retail spaces, offices and some housing units.
If for nothing else, this could serve as a model to make a Downtown hub of
living, working, and entertainment. This is the model, the lifestyle change
that we're seeing everywhere. If for nothing else, for this four residential
units that it proposes, we hope to remove four cars that occupies our busy
streets and parking lot. Number three, it will help with Affordable Housing
Fund. Because it is a new building, I don't know how much it will cost. I
(inaudible) it cost a lot. The impact fees that it will contribute to the
Affordable Housing Fund which, I think, is a good thing. That also will help
us to achieve our goal for affordable housing. Finally, when the building is
finally completed, it will really, really help our County for this tax
reassessment. It will really help our bottom line to collect more property
                                                                          Page 39 of 78
                                                                   City Council Meeting
                                                                     Transcript: 2/6/17
                          TRANSCRIPT
tax. That will in turn help our City coffer, our schools, and our park. Thank
you.

Mayor Scharff:     Thank you.     Cheryl Lilienstein to be followed by Vita
Borgunova.

Cheryl Lilienstein: In looking through the Staff Report, there is direction
that says where new projects are built abutting existing, lower-scale
residential development, care shall be taken to respect the scale and privacy
of neighboring properties through transitions of development intensity from
higher density development building types to building types that are
compatible with lower-intensity, surrounding uses. Massing and orientation
of buildings that respect and mirror the massing of neighboring structures by
stepping back upper stories to transition to smaller-scale buildings including
setbacks and daylight planes, etc.         Respecting privacy of neighboring
structures with windows and upper-floor balconies positioned so they
minimize views into neighboring properties. Minimizing sightlines into and
from neighboring properties. Limit sun and shade impacts on abutting
properties. In looking at the Shadow Study that was produced by—who was
that? Something ending with E-K. I forget. You can see that on the left
here that's what it looks like today. That's the shadow. With the building
proposed going in, that shadow is certainly going to be a lot different.
Michael, can you get me to the shadow slides? The proposal shows the
upper part. The upper schematic is what the situation would be at the
winter solstice at 3:00 p.m., given the present condition. That's where the
shadow is. The lower slide shows where the shadow will be if this building is
allowed to be built as is. It certainly intrudes all the way over the yoga
studio and also into the front yards and the front faces and the roofs,
although it doesn't show it, of the buildings across Kipling. This is at 9:00
a.m. What does it do at 9:00 a.m.? Again, the upper slide shows where the
building casts a shadow today and where that shadow would be cast if the
building is allowed to be built. This is obviously not taking into consideration
the quality of life for the people, the alleyway, the pedestrians, and the
residents who are living alongside. It's really not compatible. I would like
this to be sent back to the ARB. I wish that the requirements that the City
Council established in 2016 were something that the applicant had
responded to instead of just giving you another version of the same thing.
Thank you.

Council Member Filseth: Thank you very much. The next speaker will be
Vita Borgunova, to be followed by Mark Mollineaux.

Vita Borgunova: Hello again. I'm resident of Everett Avenue, about three
blocks from the proposed project.    I'm here to support an appeal of

                                                                          Page 40 of 78
                                                                   City Council Meeting
                                                                     Transcript: 2/6/17
                          TRANSCRIPT
Mr. Harbour and urge you to deny proposed development plans. To my
surprise, this project made it back to the Council. No changes were made,
and concerns the Council had a year ago are not addressed. The building is
still a huge brick taking over half the block and replacing three distinctly
separate buildings. It's still utterly incompatible with the scale and character
of the neighborhood. Airbnb actually says so. Developer just haphazardly
slopped some architectural elements taken from already-approved buildings
in Palo Alto and just played for time, waiting for the new Council to take over
and hoping to influence you with donations. Now, they present it to us with
a set of alternative facts. Honestly speaking, there is no alternative facts.
There is facts of life. I see (inaudible) interest in it. They're getting five
times square footage they have now and more than six times actually, if you
count underground. I don't see what's in it for Palo Alto. It will worsen our
parking problem Downtown. It will worsen our office/housing imbalance. It
will definitely not going to be an architectural gem. Nothing to be proud of.
All of that on top of not following City's rules and guidelines. Honestly
speaking, this project reminds me of the Cinderella inside out. It's like the
stepmother is forcing ugly daughter's shoe on Cinderella. It's still size 13,
like nothing what you do. It doesn't (inaudible). Developer wasted already
Staff time, resources, now wasting my taxes, my time and your time too.
Please deny the project. Developer apparently has no intention to work with
the City on making this project and have no regard for City's resources and
for good of the community. It's not true there is no other way to build it
here. Walk along University Avenue and you will see plenty of modern
architecture buildings which are working with the old neighbors. Somehow
the owners, I guess, were not that greedy. All the reason you need to deny
is imagining the University Avenue full of those projects of the same
buildings. Here I am. Thank you.

Mayor Scharff: Thank you. Mark Mollineaux to be followed by Rita Vrhel.

Mark Mollineaux: Hi there. My name is Mark Mollineaux. I graduated from
Stanford, and I currently live in Redwood City. I live in a warehouse in
Redwood City. Just this week, I learned that my landlord has sold the
warehouse, so I am not going to be living there very soon. All us equal, I
would like to live in Palo Alto. It's very close to Stanford University, and I do
work at Stanford University. However, rents all through the Peninsula,
especially in Palo Alto, are really not very affordable. Buying a place around
here is just impossible. Let's be frank about it. The question is why is this
the case. It's a matter of supply; there's just not enough supply for all the
renters and all the homeowners to be able to live on this limited amount of
land. One small part of this is the approval process. Here in the Palo Alto
City Council, it has arbitrary standards. It can find any reason to deny
something, inconsistent massing, design linkages, unharmonious transitions.
                                                                          Page 41 of 78
                                                                   City Council Meeting
                                                                     Transcript: 2/6/17
                          TRANSCRIPT
You can make anything up to say why something shouldn't be approved.
It's clear how this reflects a broken system. Homeowners, landowners in the
area shielded from the effects of the limited supply through Prop 13 have
every incentive to deny every single project. Why would they? Why would
you allow a project? You don't really have any effect to you. You might
make up any perceived slight to just shoot it down because there's really no
balance to counteract it. In a more perfect world, residents who want to
have a lower density living, they would pay for it with higher taxes. Prop 13
made this not the case. In any case, my tax dollars go to Palo Alto for its
infrastructure, so I feel like I'm not getting my money's worth (inaudible)
finding a place where I might be able to live. Anyway, the failure of Palo
Alto to make an approval system that will actually supply this housing is
catching the attention of Sacramento more and more every day. It's really
up to Palo Alto to either solve its housing problem or have Sacramento try to
solve it for them. I think Palo Alto has the potential to make it happen.
Downtown Palo Alto, this is supposed to be the low-hanging fruit. You need
to add housing. Three to five units in this place has become this massive
train wreck of this approval process. How are you going to get any housing
built if this blows up this way? You need to figure out big picture—what's
your plan here? The problem's not going away. This is just one more
example of how this is just kind of a wreck. Thanks very much for your
time.

Mayor Scharff: Rita Vrhel to be followed by Neilson Buchanan.

Rita Vrhel: I have so much to say. I feel like we've seen this pig before. It
keeps coming back, and it's got a little new dress on, but it's still the same
fat pig that doesn't fit Downtown. I remember last year, Mayor Scharff,
when you said when the applicant came back, "Why are you here?" The
answer was that she couldn't get her way at the ARB. You said to her, "You
need to follow the Codes." You actually shook your finger at her and said—
do you remember this? I do. It was wonderful. You said, "We can take a
very long, long time to approve your project." Why is this project back here
again? You have the ARB, which apparently hasn't even seen some of these
designs, and you're going to approve something. I think the attorney was a
little disingenuous. I can see why Dr. Harbour feels like he has been
slammed. I heard some very veiled threats on if you don't approve this
project. To the young man who would like to live in Palo Alto, who spoke
before me, these are luxury apartments.           These are large, luxury
apartments. All that the Planning and Transportation Commission and the
ARB did was ask the applicant to reduce the size. I feel like this applicant is
wasting your time, our time. Obviously it doesn't have the approval from
most of the community. This is not a Chinese community versus the rest of
us situation. This is an ugly building which is going to be replacing a very
                                                                         Page 42 of 78
                                                                  City Council Meeting
                                                                    Transcript: 2/6/17
                          TRANSCRIPT
charming building next to a charming street. I really hope that you will send
all of this back to the ARB with clear directions to follow the rules, the Codes
and what you had previously said. Thank you very much.

Mayor Scharff: Thank you. Neilson Buchanan to be followed by Sam Arsan.

Neilson Buchanan: Good evening, Council. I would like to put a little bit
different twist on the comments that have been made. A couple of voices
have been echoing in my head for the last couple of weeks, thinking about
this evening. One of those voices is Roxy Rapp. Several years ago when I
first started hanging out in City Hall, Roxy made several presentations about
the maximum use of the side streets that are perpendicular to University
Avenue. I can't go through what he said, but basically he was saying those
are treasures, and we should be developing those to draw people down the
small streets for special places. I got confirmation of that in a course I'm
taking at Stanford about Paris. Believe me, I'm not standing in front of you
saying I've gone to four lectures, and I have the foggiest grasp of Paris. I
do know, having learned a little about 300 or 400 years of Paris, that it's
constantly changing, and that they really have paid great attention to special
places. They recommended that you walk around town in daylight, prime
hours, and evening hours at head level and take a look at the streets. I did
that on the streets that radiate from Downtown North to University Avenue.
I walked both ways and all the streets. I could rate the streets, but it really
doesn't matter. Kipling is a very special opportunity. Anything that's built
on Kipling should be special because it radiates from University Avenue like
in Paris all the way to the park in Downtown North. That should be a very
special pedestrian walkway. I don't think this building enhances it. Thank
you.

Mayor Scharff: Thank you. Sam Arsan to be followed by Jared Bernstein.

Sam Arsan: Good evening. My name is Sam Arsan. I represent several
landlords and tenants in Downtown Palo Alto. I also manage and lease
several buildings in the Downtown area. I've been working in Downtown
Palo Alto for over 20 years now. I think this building is very well designed,
and it's very attractive. It's a welcome addition to this part of University
Avenue. I have several tenants and landlords that are concerned about the
delays that we've been having with this. The building is unfortunately in
need of a lot of repairs, and it needs to be redeveloped and replaced. I'm
hoping that you will approve this project. Thank you.

Mayor Scharff: Thank you. Jared Bernstein to be followed by Karin Alana.

Jared Bernstein: Hello. I'm Jared Bernstein, 1330 Tasso Street. I'm coming
out of the blue because I wanted to talk to you guys for the last six months
                                                                          Page 43 of 78
                                                                   City Council Meeting
                                                                     Transcript: 2/6/17
                          TRANSCRIPT
on this topic, but I didn't know it was so fraught. It's really amazing. I
didn't expect this level of emotion on the topic. Maybe eight, nine years
ago, I was planning to build a house. I went through the Building Code at
the same time Elizabeth Wong was.           I was reading about it in the
newspaper. The neighbors didn't want Elizabeth Wong to build this building.
I wondered why.        If she's got the approval and she meets all the
requirements, why can't she just build her house? It's a house on Webster
somewhere. Never met Elizabeth Wong. Then, I saw this thing. It's like
there's all of a sudden a building that's completely okay and conforms with
all the rules. For some reason, it got stopped. This was maybe two years
ago because I read the newspaper every week cover to cover. Recently, I
figured out it's Elizabeth Wong again. Just recently, I met Elizabeth Wong
somewhere. She had a nametag. I said, "You're Elizabeth Wong." I'm like,
"Why is it that people are stopping you from building a building which
apparently was originally perfectly approved?" The first time it was okay,
and then somebody opposed it. For some reason, the tail is wagging the
dog. If I own a property and I want to build a building and I follow all the
rules, it ought to be okay. I think the same thing for every other person.
We're trying to be a City of laws and not a City of people, if you know what I
mean. All I'm saying is I think it should be approved somehow. I don't
know which one, and I don't know all the details. The building is not too
ugly; it's not too pretty; it's okay. Just a newspaper reader following it, I
was puzzled. I said somebody is stopping this for who knows what reason.
At any rate, thank you. You guys really put up with a lot of stuff. It's tough.
You have my sympathy.

Mayor Scharff: Karin Alana to be followed by Jake Lowenheim.

Karim Allana: Good evening, Honorable Mayor and Council Members. Thank
you for giving me the opportunity to speak. I live on 611 Webster, which is
also in the Downtown area and own a business here as well. I own an
architectural engineering company, Allana Buick and Bers in Palo Alto. We
employ about 120 employees. I'm very happy to see this building go up. I
think that it's a very sustainable building, which is my specialty. It's built
out of concrete. It has very efficient daylighting and light and glass that is
necessary today in energy efficiency. I'm also pleased to see that a building
within the FAR allowable ratio and the zoning is what is allowed here. It's a
mixed-use project, which is great, accommodates both people living and
working, which is exactly what we need to cut down traffic and people. I
also think the building is energy efficient and elegant in construction and
architecture.     What I am puzzled by is the opposition, especially
Mr. Harbour's view. Why would a project that meets all of the City's zoning
requirements, all of the FAR requirements face this type of scrutiny from a
person that doesn't want it in his neighborhood? This is a NIMBY(Not in my
                                                                         Page 44 of 78
                                                                  City Council Meeting
                                                                    Transcript: 2/6/17
                          TRANSCRIPT
back yard) issue. As much as I love Downtown Palo Alto, there are parts of
it that I don't like. I don't want to be surrounded by tall buildings. I don't
want to have a commercial building across my street either, but I take the
good with the bad. This is where we live. This is Downtown Palo Alto.
We've got to accept what the City allows us to build here. If we just
arbitrarily allow people, individuals to put up a fight and listen to them and
not allow construction to happen, it's going to be a bad thing. It's going to
be bad for businesses like mine. I'm an architectural engineering firm. I
depend on construction; I depend on development.               I want to see
sustainable things built. I want to see laws being followed. If people are
following the rules and they're following the laws and they're building within
the City guidelines, I just don't get it. I don't see why the City would allow
an individual who disagrees with the development, for them to put up such a
fight that the developer has to go through this many submissions and this
many Architectural Review Board hearings. I thank you for your time.

Mayor Scharff: Thank you. Karim Allana to be followed by Jake Lowenheim.

Jake Lowenheim: You're off by one. I'm Jake.

Mayor Scharff: Yeah, I am.         They haven't changed it there.           They're
supposed to have.

Mr. Lowenheim: I'm here, and I want to echo the words we just heard. I'm
a little bit new to this. I realize there is a lot of you that have quite a lot of
passionate feelings about this. For me—many of you may not know this. I
was involved in some of the civic projects down here, especially the one that
is always everyone's favorite, which is parking. From both sides, I was
involved in it because a I'm resident of the neighborhood, but also there's
parking and monitoring and other things that I initially got started here in
the City. It made me very conscious of what goes on here in terms of pain
points that the City has. I want to speak in favor of this project just very
quickly because I like the idea that a building that's there at the moment,
that is used for office space and other purposes, which does not have its
own parking, now has built-in parking if this building goes there. I also like
the idea that it's a green and sustainable building that's proposed to be built
here. I'm not sure if everyone's aware, but the other pieces of property that
are in that block, in between Waverley and Kipling, there's a lot of it that's at
the moment under construction because there's earthquake-proof things
being done. Actually, it's quite a painful process, so I like the idea of
something new coming in. To echo also whatever one else says, I think it's
fair as long as you are putting something in the footprint of what exists, and
you're actually upgrading to what's going on and not expanding past it, and


                                                                           Page 45 of 78
                                                                    City Council Meeting
                                                                      Transcript: 2/6/17
                          TRANSCRIPT
following the rules. It should be something that should be allowed. That's
pretty much all I have to say about it. Thanks for your time.

Mayor Scharff:    Thank you.    Meredith Slaughter to be followed by Nikoo
Namazian.

Meredith Slaughter: Good evening. My name is Meredith Slaughter, and
I'm a resident of Downtown Palo Alto. I want to make three points tonight.
The first has to do with the project site's close proximity to public transit,
both the Caltrain station and the Lytton Avenue bus route. These close
proximities make the project and other sites along University as well ideal
for mixed-use design and to high-density uses. By building up and varying
the land uses within a single project site, we are going to decrease the
reliance on the automobile. The second thing I want to talk about tonight or
to suggest to the Council is that, when you're considering the compatibility
and context-based criteria under the Plan or the Code, the most appropriate
application considers not only the existing uses of the immediate
environment or the adjacent properties or the abutting properties,
depending on the provision that applies, but also the potential uses under
the Code. The project site is in the Downtown commercial district. Under
the General Plan, it is in the regional center. It is considered a prime area
for this type of development. Moreover, Kipling Street, as the appellant has
made clear many times, is apparently the narrowest street in Downtown
Palo Alto. That makes it even more compatible with a mixed-use, high-
density design because narrower streets are inevitably more pedestrian-
friendly because they encourage fewer automobiles to come down their
travel way. The last thing I want to say tonight is that I hope the Council
will consider the implications for future projects, not just this one but future
projects that are proposed in the area if you deny this one and the
limitations it will place on the City's development. Thank you.

Mayor Scharff:    Thank you.     Nikoo Namazian to be followed by Simone
Sadri.

Nikoo Namazian: Hi. My name Nikoo Namazian. I've been resident of Palo
Alto for last 30 years. I live on East Crescent Drive. I like to make it a little
personal here. When we, my husband and I, graduated from college, we
lived in Cambridge, Massachusetts, around Harvard and MIT and so on. We
thought that we live in Cambridge, Massachusetts, forever. When the
opportunity to came up and we moved to Silicon Valley and then we chose
Palo Alto as our residence, we thought we would miss Cambridge, but we
didn't. We never missed that place. This City has a unique and beautiful
character. It has been great community to raise my daughter, my only
child. This new wave of generation is trying to get to Palo Alto, rent

                                                                          Page 46 of 78
                                                                   City Council Meeting
                                                                     Transcript: 2/6/17
                          TRANSCRIPT
somewhere, buy something and start up their company and then take it to
public and bring a lot of money as taxpayers. When I heard about the
proposal, building on 429 University, I was curious. I looked at the plan,
and I looked at the architectural drawings. I truly believe that the proposed
building is designed tastefully and complements its surroundings. I was very
careful when I look at the detail of this project, and I didn't see anything
wrong with it. I also believe that, knowing this great City, it keeps Palo
Alto's character as diverse as possible. You see modern and traditional, and
it's been in-between all over. I'm sure this plan is in benefit of our City too.
It's going to bring a lot of tax money after it's built. Why are we waiting?
What's the reason behind all these delays? I'd like the City Council approve
this. Thank you for your time.

Mayor Scharff: Thank you. Simone Sadri to be followed by Henie Faghani.

Simone Sadri: Good evening. My name is Simone Sadri. I live on 1416
Hamilton Avenue. I'm in favor of this project, and I'm here to urge you to
approve the project as it meets the building and Code requirements. It also
provides a mix of retail, office and much needed residential units that would
contribute to the vitality and vibrancy of a beautiful Palo Alto. Thank you.

Mayor Scharff: Thank you. Henie Faghani to be followed by Herb Borock.

Henie Faghani: Hi. My name is Henie Faghani. I work in Palo Alto; also I
do live in Old Palo Alto. I am pro this project. I do think it's time for us to
approve it, since it has met all the Building Code and requirements. The
mass and scale has been addressed. It will improve retail, office, residential
shortage plus this building has addressed the parking. Thank you for your
time.

Mayor Scharff: Thank you. Herb Borock to be followed by Richard Brand.

Herb Borock: Mayor Scharff and Council Members, I urge you to uphold the
appeal and to deny the project.          The Council over a year ago on
November 30, 2015, instead of denying the project sent it back to the
Architectural Review Board and directed the applicant to make changes so
that the project could be in a form that could be approved by the Council.
However, I attended those ARB meetings and, from one meeting to the next,
the ARB was prepared to say that the applicant hasn't responded
appropriately to the Council's direction. They were ready to send it back to
the Council and say they haven't done what you requested. The applicant
repeatedly kept asking for more time to change it and sometimes made it
worse compared to what the Council was asking the applicant to do. The
only thing they've accomplished is to get a different City Council to review
the project this evening than the one they had before. I've presented
                                                                          Page 47 of 78
                                                                   City Council Meeting
                                                                     Transcript: 2/6/17
                          TRANSCRIPT
information based on substantial evidence that the project is larger than it is
entitled to be because it is claiming to use bonus square footage from a
demolished building and calling it seismic upgrade square footage. When
you're presented a fair argument based on substantial evidence, as defined
in the environmental law in this case, and it's not mitigated, you have to
have an Environmental Impact Report if you want to proceed with the
project. Perhaps you might think, "What we should do is direct the applicant
to redesign the project after subtracting that amount of square footage." If
you did that, you already know what the applicant's going to do. The
applicant is not going to do that and will keep asking for more time, while
you keep getting more revisions over and over again. Maybe after two
years, there will be another Council that the applicant can try to convince
what to do. I believe this has been going on too long. The only one who
has kept it going this long is the applicant. Rather than following the
direction that the Council had previously given the applicant and continuing
to ask for more time and hoping that somehow she'll get approval for
something that is worse than you saw before.

Mayor Scharff: Thank you. I'm just going to interrupt for a second. It's
now 9:35. In five minutes, we're supposed to be starting the Stanford GUP.
We're clearly behind. We've talked to Stanford, and they're willing to move
their presentation to the next Council meeting on February 27th, I think it is.
I think we're just going to go with that and do this tonight and not get to the
Stanford Item. If you're here for the Stanford Item, we're going to do it on
February 27th. Thank you. Richard, go ahead.

Richard Brand: Good evening, Council Members. Good to see everybody
tonight. Mayor Scharff, it's interesting you're bringing this up because my
issue here is policy and procedures. I'm really concerned about you taking
your very precious time to deal with a project that should be at the ARB and
being adjudicated and redone and looked at all the rules and regulation issue
it brings up in the ARB. That said, I'm very concerned about this project.
According to the Comp Plan, it's under-parked. You know my sensitivity
about parking. One of the things that really concerns me about this is it's a
very aggressive proposal. You've seen my note. My brother-in-law's picture
is up there, Kirke Comstock. He died last year. He was a Mayor, worked a
lot of time. Ethics was a big issue for him. He really felt that this Council
was the epitome of how government should be run on a local basis. I'm
concerned with the money being spent to push and influence potentially a
project of this level on one of our most lovely streets in the City. I will say
one thing about this. The appellant had mentioned about the shadow effect.
We all love, at least I do, the Palo Alto Celebrates the Arts. In the afternoon
in the summertime, if you walk along University Avenue for Palo Alto
Celebrates the Arts, big buildings shadow that part of the celebration that
                                                                         Page 48 of 78
                                                                  City Council Meeting
                                                                    Transcript: 2/6/17
                         TRANSCRIPT
goes on, on a weekend in August. If you have been to the area down east
where we call the Bank of America building, the tall building there, that's a
shadow area, and it's very cold in the summertime at Palo Alto Celebrates
the Arts. This big building is oversized in massing in terms of what it does
with the adjacent buildings. While it may meet the rules and regulations,
what it doesn't do is meet the look and feel of what our City should be. It
has some housing. I know the fellow was talking about housing in Palo Alto.
Yes, we need that, but these are luxury apartments. I encourage you to
turn this back to the ARB and reject it tonight. Thank you.

Mayor Scharff: Thank you. Bill Lou to be followed by Rene Wood.

Bill Lou: Good evening. Many words have been said before, so I found out
the best way is talk about yourself and personal experience. I've been living
here with my family for 18 years, worked at CalTech for a few years. I also
lived in Europe for eight years, mainly in Zurich. In Palo Alto, I thought it
was good thing to be a builder with watching my kids here. A few years
ago, I decided to better use my intelligence, going back to renewable
energy. Today's meeting made me feel like I did the right thing. I've been
here a few times. ARB processes have not changed. I think today three
things. Take away number one, it's still about people not about a Code,
which is sad. Second thing, change is inevitable. It's very hard to do it
here. Third thing is no brainer to me. The design came from the same
architect group who has built here. The initial denial two years ago was
clearly a mistake. I've been through that process a few years ago. I'm in
support of both Elizabeth and Jaime. The architecture is a natural—it's good
stuff. Thank you.

Mayor Scharff: Thank you. Rene Wood to be followed by Andrew Gottlieb.

Rene Wood: Good evening, Mayor and Council Members. My name is Rene
Wood, and I'm not a resident of Palo Alto, but I visit here frequently and
follow your politics intensely. The thing that I'm hearing tonight was an
excellent presentation by City Staff, whereby they went through point-by-
point the history on this project and pointed out very clearly to those who
were listening what the ARB has asked for this design, Option Number 1.
They were also very clear in pointing out that Option Number 2 and Option
Number 3 have not been reviewed by the ARB, which is your process. The
attorney and the architect for Ms. Wong came up, and there was a lot of
hocus pocus in my view. There's a lot of shell-shifting going on. They did
not address the points that were made by the City Staff. In fact, they
basically insulted the City Staff by saying that selected emails which sought
to bring together various people on this project, which every City


                                                                       Page 49 of 78
                                                                City Council Meeting
                                                                  Transcript: 2/6/17
                          TRANSCRIPT
department should try to do. Should I stop until the matter is cleared up
back there?

Mayor Scharff: We can hear you just fine.

Ms. Wood: Thank you. I really take offense at the attorney and the
architect and their comments. There's nothing wrong with a neighbor and a
group of people who become very involved in City politics. This is there
home. As we've heard multiple times, homes here are very, very expensive.
They're just looking out for what they feel is their investment in Palo Alto as
well as conforming to what the Planning Department said. I would urge you
to not be taken in by this appeal and to realize that what it is, is an attempt
to go around your clearly defined process, which is for your ARB to review
these matters. I am struck, as someone who has been over 15 years in my
hometown politics, at the patience with which this Council has given this
matter and the basic disrespect that has been given to your process, in
particular your ARB. For what it is worth, I would go with those people who
have recommended that you deny this and send it back to the ARB. If it
cannot be worked out, kill this matter because you have an applicant who is
not respecting you, this town, its residents, or your process. Thank you.

Mayor Scharff:    Thank you.     Andrew Gottlieb to be followed by David
Lieberman.

Andrew Gottlieb: Good evening. My name is Andrew Gottlieb. I'm a
longtime resident of Downtown Palo Alto. Mr. Buchanan's comments struck
me earlier as being very applicable. Kipling Street is a special street. In
looking at and approving a building to go up on that street, the special
nature of it should be taken into consider. I think the Architectural Review
Board was doing that. I think they were doing their job. I believe at this
point they should continue to be able to do their job to either accept or
reject this project and not circumvent the Council. I'd encourage the Council
to allow them to do their job and not be influenced by other types of
discussions going on tonight. Specifically the attorney for the applicant, I
think they are denigrating the process in suggesting that a resident is taking
over the process and not allowing a project to go forward. I think what's
simply happening is a resident is exercising his right to object to a project
and express the concerns of himself and apparently other members of the
community. I'd encourage you to listen to that, listen to the appellant and
the objections before the Council, and not be discouraged by the side
conversation about an appellant taking over the process. It's simply not
happening; he's encouraging it. He's just making sure the rules are being
followed. Just following on that, there are reasons why the project has been
delayed for several years based on objections because the applicant has not

                                                                         Page 50 of 78
                                                                  City Council Meeting
                                                                    Transcript: 2/6/17
                         TRANSCRIPT
followed the suggestions of the ARB, has not followed the rules, and has not
taken into consideration the concerns of the community. Finally, I'd like to
say in this day and age, respect for the process and the public's confidence
in the process is critical in local government and Federal government.
Listening to Council Member Tanaka's expression of explaining why he's not
recusing himself is a concern. I think even the appearance of impropriety is
discouraging. I would encourage you to recuse yourself from this process
based on the campaign contribution. Even though you refunded it, I think it
creates a cloud and appearance of impropriety, which would undermine the
public's confidence in the process if you didn't recuse yourself. Thank you.

Mayor Scharff: Thank you. David Lieberman.

David Lieberman: Hi. This project was first presented to the City in 2013.
It was approved by the Planning Staff in 2015. It meets all building and
Code requirements and requires no variances or exceptions. Yet, four years
later here we are. Is Palo Alto governed by law or by ad hoc decisions based
on individual whims? As a resident of Palo Alto, I am required to obey all
municipal laws and regulations whether I like them or not, and frequently I
don't. There is no exception to that requirement for Council Members. You
members of the City Council have the ability to change the law, but you
don't have the right to ignore it. Do the right thing. Obey the law. Approve
this project. I'd just like to add one thing. If the nine of you went into a
room and designed the site, designed a building, you would come out and
you would vote it down.

Mayor Scharff: Now, we return to the appellant, who will have three
minutes in rebuttal.

Mr. Harbour: I thought you said the applicant was first.

Mayor Scharff: Let me look at my thing here. I get that confused. Does
the applicant object to going first? Nope, then the applicant can go first.

Jaime Wong, Applicant: Good evening. My name's Jaime Wong. I want to
start by saying an earlier speaker talked about Birge Clark, and we're trying
to honor Birge Clark. In fact, the American Institute of Architects elected to
give the Birge Clark award for sustained architectural excellence to Joe
Bellomo, my architect. People have tried to brand me as a developer. I
don't object to that, but it's not a bad thing. I'm also your neighbor; I live
here. I've raised my family here. I vote here. I shop here. Yes, I invest
here. Everything for me is Palo Alto. I care about this town. I'd better
because my whole future and the future of my family depends on it. We
have seen the tactic of fearmongering here. People talk about ignoring the
professionals who have said shadow studies, no impact.           No, no, no,
                                                                        Page 51 of 78
                                                                 City Council Meeting
                                                                   Transcript: 2/6/17
                         TRANSCRIPT
shadows are—nuclear winter is coming. Traffic and parking, no impact. Yet,
we're supposed to stand there and watch cars ram into each other on Kipling
Street. I don't believe that. Pictures opposing my project show flat
elevations because we're required by City Code to present flat elevations.
That puts the building in its worst light because nobody looks at a building
that way. You look at it in 3-D. The Comprehensive Plan, you can find
quotes in the Comprehensive Plan that oppose it, and the appellant has
found many. I have found many that support it, and I've enclosed those in
a letter to Council including quotes from the Comprehensive Plan and the
Urban Design Guide. This project is good for Palo Alto; it's good for me.
The Architectural Review Board has seen every page on that project except
for the one with the sizes because the numbers changed a little bit, so I had
to redo a new page. If you liked Option 1, you will love Option 3. All the
pages are the same, and the ARB has seen all those drawings. The ARB
went on record to say, "We need approval of the appellant or else the
appellant will appeal again." I don't think that's right. To continue on with
the presentation from earlier, here is a view of what it looks like from the
alley right now. It's a service alley. It has dumpsters, and the garbage
trucks come every day and pickup garbage from there, and cars park there.
That's it. It's hardly used by pedestrians as the Traffic Study that we
presented to the City shows. We have some slides about compatibility to
show that Palo Alto is really a diverse collection of tall buildings, small
buildings, modern buildings, older buildings. They take design cues from
each other, but it's all diverse. This building does the same. Thank you.

Mayor Scharff: Thank you. Now, Michael Harbour.

Mr. Harbour: I wanted to summarize here and thank you again. This is a
colossal building on the narrowest street in Downtown Palo Alto. I want to
point out in terms of some metrics Bryant Street is 49 feet wide versus
Kipling at 29. It's about 70 percent larger. That same four-story building,
which would be allowed on Bryant, is going to appear much larger and have
much greater impact on that narrow Kipling Street. We've heard many
people come up and tell you emphatically that this building meets all the
Code requirements, the FAR, the square footage. Code requirements do
include FAR and square footage, but they also include the Municipal Codes
about context and compatibility. Those are just as important, the Codes, as
just the square footage alone. The only reason why we are at almost a 3.0
FAR is because of a transfer of development right, which the City has
admitted probably would not be granted in this day and age. It doesn't
mean that the applicant gets to use all of it. You have to look at the
receptor site for this area. Don't feel sorry for the applicants here. The
applicant went to the media. The front page of the newspaper in August,
the applicant has agreed to reduce the size of the Downtown project. It was
                                                                       Page 52 of 78
                                                                City Council Meeting
                                                                  Transcript: 2/6/17
                         TRANSCRIPT
a bait and switch. She actually made the building smaller before she made
it bigger and changed everything around and has gotten everybody
confused. The options that you've seen here before are not her little, small
project or smaller project. Please don't feel sorry for them. The applicant
willfully did not address the issues outlined by the May 4th City Council
Motion. There have been multiple violations that still exist with regard to
size and massing. The Staff Report states the applicant has only partially
been responsive and ignored other repeated requests. The total size and
mass of the building is as large as it was when we filed our original appeal.
The applicant and the architect have ignored repeated suggestions by the
ARB to bring this project into compliance. Board Member Lew, who's here
tonight, actually gave two separate slide presentations with photos—
something I've never seen—demonstrating what success would be like. He
brought these photos and showed how other applicants have done this.
Again, deaf ears. I personally have met with every architect, applicant,
attended every ARB meeting. The applicant has made the massing worse by
enlarging the top floors. I want to make this very clear. This appeal is not
meant to prevent the applicant from developing this piece of property. I am
not against that. I actually come from a family of developers. One of the
things that we do is actually work with the community to make sure that the
needs are being met. This has not happened at all. Again, I've mentioned
these here before. The only decision now is to reject the current plan. It's
the only decision. The ARB hasn't even seen the existing plans of all three
options and weighed in on them. Thank you very much.

Public Hearing closed at 9:53 P.M.

Mayor Scharff: Thank you. Now, we return to Council for questions and
comments. I'm going to close the public hearing at this point as well. I just
want to reiterate that for Council to take any action, it's going to take five
votes. Council Member Wolbach.

Council Member Wolbach:       I actually just want to make a couple of
comments about the process and the kinds of things that we focus on
tonight in response to some of the things we've heard from members of the
public. First, on the question of who should be participating in this, we've
heard a lot of discussion about this around other issues as well. There's no
obligation for anybody to recuse themselves from this decision. There's no
legal obligation. There was not even a legal obligation for anybody on
Council to return any checks. The one person who saw that that might
create the appearance of impropriety returned the check to remove that
appearance of impropriety.     Personally, I never took any money from
developers when I was running for office, but everybody's able to make their
own choices.     When issues of Castilleja come back, I'm not going to
                                                                        Page 53 of 78
                                                                 City Council Meeting
                                                                   Transcript: 2/6/17
                          TRANSCRIPT
encourage anybody to recuse themselves, because I think the accusations
are ridiculous. I think the same thing applies here. I think the people can
make informed, reasonable decisions regardless of what kinds of donations
they took. This is, again, coming from somebody who decided not to take
those donations myself. I just think that we should be fair to the process,
and we should be honest, and we should be consistent. There's been a lot of
accusations thrown around over the last year regarding the idea that just
because somebody took a donation from somebody that influences their
decision-making. Again, in this case it's not relevant. We've heard, frankly,
from both sides of this discussion a lot of ad hominem attacks. I find that
dismaying as well. This isn't a question of whether we feel some personal
affinity for either the applicant or the appellant or we find their attitude to be
in any manner offensive to our personal sensibilities. That's not the question
in front of us. It's unfortunate that the acrimony is quite severe around this
project. It would have been great if everybody had a kumbaya moment, but
we're going to have disagreements. That's okay. I'm actually going to
reserve—I'm actually not going to make a Motion. I want to listen to my
Colleagues …

Mayor Scharff: You can't make the Motion. So we're clear, it's supposed to
be comments and questions.

Council Member Wolbach: Excellent. I'm not planning on making one.
Whatever decision we make tonight, it should be very, very clear. We
should focus on those issues that have not been resolved. Obviously, one of
my biggest concerns previously was around the historic impact on
neighboring buildings. HRB looked at it, said they were unable to come to a
finding. We talked about this the last time it came before us. That issue
wasn't a primary issue. The major questions here are around mass and
scale and things like that and whether this project sufficiently meets the
findings necessarily. I'm going to leave it to my Colleagues to weigh in on
those. I'll be listening attentively.

Mayor Scharff: Council Member Filseth.

Council Member Filseth: A quick question to Staff. I know we talked about
this in the last meeting. A couple of people brought up the issue of the
applicability of TDRs. Can Staff comment briefly on that?

Mr. Lait: The Municipal Code sets forth the requirements and standards for
having potential floor area transferred from one development site to
another. There's a variety of requirements for that. Applicant has initiated
that effort, has secured the Transfer Development Rights (TDRs) for the 429
University site. The area of conflict or concern that the community member

                                                                           Page 54 of 78
                                                                    City Council Meeting
                                                                      Transcript: 2/6/17
                         TRANSCRIPT
was speaking to was that the new Apple store was one of the sites for which
TDRs were granted. The Code's interest is to remove seismically vulnerable
buildings and shore them up and replace them with buildings that meet the
current standards. In the process of the building permit construction, it
turned out that the existing walls that were to be retained couldn't be
retained, and they were removed. The site was essentially demolished and
built anew. That's not inconsistent with how some other projects in the City
have been previously reviewed with respect to TDRs, but it did raise the
conversation that the Council did talk about and directed Staff with respect
to seismic upgrades of buildings where the Council had expressed an interest
that Staff no longer allow complete demolition to be a means for meeting
that standard. Now, you do have to retain and actually rehabilitate the
existing structure. That was a conversation that happened subsequent to
the City granting the TDRs for that site.

Council Member Filseth: Where does that leave this project? You're saying
it was okay under the old rules but not the new rules. Did I understand that
right?

Mr. Lait: We're saying that this project was evaluated consistent with City
practice, and we believe that the TDRs are valid for this development site.

Mayor Scharff: Council Member DuBois.

Council Member DuBois: If it's all right with the Mayor, I see a member of
the ARB. I wanted to ask a couple of questions.

Mayor Scharff: Sure, go right ahead. That's what you get for coming.

Council Member DuBois: I have two questions for you. The first one was—
Option 3 has been described as highly similar to designs that you guys
looked at. Do you agree with that?

Alexander Lew, Architectural Review Board Chair: I do want to be clear that
normally when a representative for the Board comes here, we represent the
whole Board's opinion. The Board has not seen Option 3, so I can't tell you
what the Board thinks about Option 3. You're actually asking is Option 3
similar to Option 1. The Board only saw a preliminary drawing set of Option
1. It was like a pencil drawing set. Not all the drawings were included. We
didn't have perspective renderings from different sides or whatnot. Option 1
really has not been thoroughly reviewed by the ARB.

Council Member DuBois: The second question is—in November of 2015
Council made a specific Motion to ask the ARB to evaluate the project on six
specific findings. What was the result of that review?
                                                                      Page 55 of 78
                                                               City Council Meeting
                                                                 Transcript: 2/6/17
                         TRANSCRIPT
Mr. Lew: We did review those particular findings on one of the earlier
schemes. I think that was in the second architect on the project. We're on
the fourth architect now. I personally did go through all the context based
findings in my last review of the project. The two other Board Members who
reviewed the project said they may or may not agree with what I had said,
but they didn't specifically cite where they would have a differing opinion. I
couldn't give you something specific. If you looked at this last Staff Report,
I did highlight areas where the Staff did not think that the context based
criteria were met.

Council Member DuBois: Thank you.

Mr. Lait: Excuse me, Mayor. If I may supplement that. I concur with Chair
Lew's response to that. I would note that the Motion that was made on
October 20th was a reference to draft findings that were included in the Staff
Report. The Motion stated to accept the draft findings that were included in
the Report. That speaks to the findings that were made. I can quickly just
summarize a few of those if that would be helpful for the …

Council Member DuBois: This is against which option?

Mr. Lait: This would have been against Option 2. The findings that the ARB
adopted, one had to do with the—we had a conversation of the old ARB
findings. Finding 1, that the design was not consistent or compatible with
the applicable elements of the Comprehensive Plan. Finding 16, that the
design is not consistent with the purpose of architectural review, which has
to promote orderly and harmonious development in the City, enhance the
desirability of residential or investment in the City. It goes on to cite a
couple of different components. Specifically with respect to those findings,
the Board found that the building's size, scale, and mass would not enhance
the pedestrian environment, that it would conflict with the following goals,
and it listed, in policies of the Comprehensive Plan: Goal L-1, Policy L-5, to
avoid land uses that are overwhelming and unacceptable due to their size
and scale; Goal L-4 speaks to pedestrian scale; Policy L-20 speaks to
reinforcing street corners or that form corner plazas; Policy L-23, promote
the quality of design that recognizes the regional and historic importance of
the area and reinforces the pedestrian character; Policy L-24, Goal L-6,
creating well-designed buildings that create a coherent development pattern,
enhance City streets and public spaces. It goes on. Finding 2, Finding 4,
Finding 5 and 6 of the old findings were not supported with explanations as
to why. Then, it went on to the design compatibility standards, which I can
elaborate on further, but there's a whole set of findings that the Board found
for Option 2 was not supportable.


                                                                        Page 56 of 78
                                                                 City Council Meeting
                                                                   Transcript: 2/6/17
                         TRANSCRIPT
Council Member DuBois: Just a couple of quick comments. This project has
been to Council twice. My impression is the applicant really hasn't been
responsive to Council direction. I did ask the City Clerk—I think she did it—
to provide the verbatims from our previous meetings. I hope my Colleagues
got a chance to look through those or at least watch the videos. We've had
very extensive discussion. I don't think we need to repeat that discussion
tonight. Just quickly, I do think the issue with the loading dock remains. I
think that's going to be addressed. The scale on the first floor and the eaves
and the entryways, I think, does make the building appear to tower over its
neighbors. The visual mass and scale along Kipling remains an issue. Just
to clarify for some of the speakers that came—I think somebody else already
said this earlier—the quantitative zoning is not a right to the maximum
amount. It's up to that amount. It's not the starting point, and it's not the
minimum. We did have extensive experience about Ordinance 18.18.110,
which is our Compatibility Ordinance.          Again, when I look at those
conditions, it still appears that they have not been met. Thank you.

Mayor Scharff: Council Member Holman.

Council Member Holman: Thank you. It's always dangerous when you
make a comment in the presence of somebody who's been around for a long
time.    Just to clarify the record, not that it's something that we're
considering tonight but just to clarify the record because I think it's
important to do so. TDRs for seismic improvement many years ago were
allowed for demolition, but also a good number of years ago, probably—this
I would have to guestimate—a good 12 years ago, 10, 12 years ago, that
practice was assured to the Planning Commission and the public that that
practice would no longer continue because it seemed to be contradictory to
the purpose of the seismic TDR Ordinance. To my knowledge, this is the
only project in the recent past that has gotten seismic TDRs for a demolition.
That said and understanding that's not in front of us, I just wanted to try to
correct the record. As Council Member DuBois said, there are a couple of
members of the ARB here. I know Board Member Lew has had a lot of
experience with this. I'd like to ask you a question, if I could please.

Mayor Scharff: You may.

Council Member Holman: Thank you. Other cities—I know you do work in a
lot of other cities—have more than just the numerical standards for project
review and approval. Not to put you on the spot here, but I know San
Francisco being one that you work in a fair amount. Can you describe what
criteria they have that are not numerical or how they might relate to our
findings that are required in our Context Based Design Criteria? We're not
unusual in this, correct?

                                                                        Page 57 of 78
                                                                 City Council Meeting
                                                                   Transcript: 2/6/17
                         TRANSCRIPT
Mr. Lew: No. I think I mentioned this in one of the ARB meetings about this
project. Just as an example, in San Francisco for what they call their
pedestrian areas, which are their neighborhood shopping areas, just for
example, they would restrict lot mergers to a prescribed size. That's
actually a numerical issue. The intent is to keep the pedestrian street
attractive and variable.    They actually discourage putting fake fronts,
multiple storefronts on one big building in an attempt to mask it to make it
look smaller. That's why they restrict the lot size, lot mergers. Also, they
would require driveway curb cuts or garage entrances to be on an alley side
and not facing any pedestrian street. They have requirements for clear
glazing along pedestrian frontages. Is there something in particular that
you're looking for?

Council Member Holman: I'm not familiar with San Francisco's Code, but I
just use them because I know you are familiar with them. Is there any just
quick thing that you want to describe about how they might deal with street
rhythm?

Mr. Lew: That's one I was getting at …

Council Member Holman: I know about the lot mergers, but …

Mr. Lew: … the first thing with the lot size. They prescribe a dimension for
each street, each pedestrian street.        Market Street, which is a big
commercial street, has a larger dimension.             Some of the more
neighborhood-oriented streets would have a smaller dimension, say 50 or 60
feet; whereas, Market Street might have a maximum building frontage of
125 feet or 150 feet wide. That's to make the buildings scaled to the
neighborhood to ensure new buildings are scaled to the neighborhood. They
also have restrictions against chain stores. We've talked about this a little
bit with the (inaudible) of California Avenue to try to keep the character of
an established street.

Council Member Holman:         Thank you very much.       Just a couple of
comments. I and, I would imagine, at least the Colleagues who have been
here for a while and seen this project before think it unfortunate that this
project is still coming before us and not having a particularly successful or
popular response. You can pick any one of these sets of plans. I'll look at
Option 3, for instance. Our Context Based Design Criteria and various other
aspects of the non-numerical findings that have to be made talk about the
rhythm of the street. The rhythm of the street is described as 25-foot
storefronts and the differentiation.     If you look at—it's in the Staff
presentation. Slide 10 is actually not a bad representation of that. If you
look at the other storefronts, they are differentiated by either different

                                                                       Page 58 of 78
                                                                City Council Meeting
                                                                  Transcript: 2/6/17
                          TRANSCRIPT
window treatments, different street-level window heights or a little bit of
entry heights. On the second level, the same thing. They're all finer
grained. If you look then at what is being proposed in either Option 1, 2 or
3, you have very dominant and prominent concrete features that step
forward, that are as single units larger than the whole of an articulated
building front adjacent to or down that block. If you look on the Kipling side,
that's true not for the storefronts particularly, but that kind of larger-scale
rhythm is very inconsistent with the rhythm of the houses on the street.
That's of great concern. These proposals for the most part—depending on
which one you look at, it's either more or less the case. This building has
very strong horizontal elements that run the length of the project. There's
not an attempt to break up the mass and scale of this building. There have
been a lot of comments made about the size of the building. As I've said
recently, it's not the square footage; it's how the square footage is
expressed. If you look at a building that often gets referenced because it's
so successful, if you look at what used to be the University Art Building, how
a lot of people still think of it, where Shinola is now. That building is a very
large building and adjacent to someone and two-story buildings. What it
does to make itself presented to the public as a pedestrian-scale building is
it has very much differentiated storefronts. The elements of the building—
it's all one building. People don't even realize that sometimes when looking
at it. The elements of the building have differentiated roof angles, roof
shapes, roof heights, different window treatments. Those make for a very
much more smaller-grained, fine-grained, more compatible building that is
much more likely to be compatible with the surroundings. It's not about
style. It's not at all about style. I want to be clear about that. It's about
the design, which is not the same as style. This building, I think, does not
respond to those transitions, does not respond to the rhythm of the street.
The height of the first floor, I would have to say, also—again, these are very
dominant, concrete, forward-setting elements. Those projections are about
a story and a half tall. How I look at this. I think of it as, if you go through
a neighborhood that's in a floodplain—if there's a replacement building and
the replacement house has to be raised the three feet or sometimes three-
feet-plus, it's how that house has a very negative impact on the other
houses on that block or in that neighborhood. It stands out considerably.
This building does that same thing. I'll stop there. Those are some of my
comments.

Mayor Scharff: I have a couple of comments on this. First of all, I'd say
that for me the issue is Kipling Street. University Avenue has no unified
architectural feel to it. There's a 50-foot building virtually across the street
from this building. It really comes down to how this interacts with Kipling
Street for me. The Staff Report does a really good job really starting on
Packet Page 526 when it talks about Option 1 being the most responsive to
                                                                          Page 59 of 78
                                                                   City Council Meeting
                                                                     Transcript: 2/6/17
                          TRANSCRIPT
concerns about the overall building mass and provides better transitions to
neighboring properties.       As the Staff Report points out, most of the
commercial buildings have two-story volumes, are greater in height on
University, and the buildings across the alley are the ones in the exception.
That's Kipling Street. The character of the buildings on North Kipling Street
are Victorian homes.       That's really the compatibility issue I think the
community is struggling with. There's a stark transition between this
building and Kipling Street. Whereas, on University Avenue, I don't think
there's that issue at all, frankly. University Avenue is eclectic with many
different styles of architecture, some 50-foot buildings, some 80-foot
buildings, some much taller buildings, 525 University down the street. When
we look at University Avenue, I don't think that's the issue in any way. I
actually think that Option 1 works well as a three-story building. One of the
frustrations for me in this is what seems to be important is the Kipling-facing
rendering and what it looks like from Kipling Street. The applicant, frankly,
hasn't provided that. The fact that the stairway and elevator goes up to 56
feet—I think the Staff Report is correct that that would need to be brought
down. If we move forward on something similar to Option 1, we would need
to bring it down. The problem I have with Option 1 is that I can't really tell
on the pop-up residential there what the effect of the massing is and what
that looks like from Kipling Street. For me, this should be a three-story
building. That takes away the transition issues on Kipling Street, and that
feels comfortable and, I think, meets the Architectural Review findings,
which we have frankly in Attachment A. It's really Packet Page 533 and
532. As a three-story building, I think it meets the Architectural Review
findings. As a four-story building, I don't think the design is compatible with
the immediate environment of the site. I don't think it's compatible with the
character of Kipling Street, which would really be Number 4. There's no
harmonious transition in scale and character as a four-story building. As a
three-story building, I think there is. I'm a little bit stuck on the issue that I
can't see how this looks with the pop-up residential. That tends to make me
feel that we should approve this, frankly, simply as a three-story building
and bring the elevator height down as well to be in that same range as the
three-story height. It could pop up a little bit over that three-story like we
do normally in our Code on the three-story height, but not on the four-story
height. That becomes a real problem. Option 1 has a lot of really good
features in terms of moving us forward in that direction. I'm just primarily
concerned about that transition to Kipling Street and how we make that
transition work. I think as a three-story building it works. Thanks. Now, I
see no further lights. Does anyone want to speak further or should we just
move to Council Member motions and further comments and questions?
Council Member Fine.


                                                                           Page 60 of 78
                                                                    City Council Meeting
                                                                      Transcript: 2/6/17
                         TRANSCRIPT
Council Member Fine: This is actually following up on your question about
the eclectic nature of Downtown. Given we have two members of the ARB
here, I was wondering if you have any advice on whether the Downtown
area does have a unified design character. If so or if not, how does that
relate to the Downtown North neighborhood and how does that transition
out along Kipling? If you could just give us some thoughts on that, if the
Mayor will allow it.

Mayor Scharff: Yeah, I'll allow it. Mr. Lew.

Council Member Fine: I know it's an open, wide question.

Mr. Lew: You're going to put me on the spot, and I'm not speaking—I'm
speaking off the cuff and not on behalf of the rest of the Board. I would just
say that because of this project, I've started working on a Downtown map of
all buildings. I'm actually going back in history too, back to like 1925. I
think we just have to acknowledge a couple of things, because we have—this
whole area, like Kipling Street and Lytton and Hamilton, was originally all
Victorian houses. The zoning was changed, and they are intended to be—
they're all in the commercial district. The City was doubling in size, and the
City was trying to make room for growth Downtown. The original pattern of
Downtown was based on the 25-foot module, which Karen and the Staff
Report have mentioned. What is not quite correct, though, is that a lot of
the storefronts, like around the Varsity Theatre, are actually only 15 feet
wide. They're really narrow. They're actually narrower than any commercial
developer would put in a new development. Typically a chain store would
want something at least 20-feet or really in a shopping mall it would be at
least 25-feet wide. It is diverse. Things have changed over time, but there
is in that block, I believe, a unified pattern of narrow storefronts, low
storefronts with balconies on the second floor. It's stronger, I would argue,
than any of the other blocks Downtown. I could make an argument that—I
think people are trying to make the argument that there are other big
buildings Downtown, and there are. They're at 3.0 floor area Downtown.
We don't get complaints about them. They're very attractive. It's entirely
conceivable to me that a 3.0 floor area building could work on this site if it
were designed to meet our Codes. My personal take is this one does not.

Council Member Fine:     That's actually very helpful, especially the history
there. Thank you.

Mr. Lew:    We have another Board Member too.       He's here if he wants to
weigh in.

Mr. Lait: Council, just to advise you. The other Board Member who is here
was actually conflicted on the hearing of the Item. I don't know if there's a
                                                                        Page 61 of 78
                                                                 City Council Meeting
                                                                   Transcript: 2/6/17
                          TRANSCRIPT
perspective from a resident, but speaking for the Board I would discourage
that engagement at this point.

Mayor Scharff: Council Member Kou.

Council Member Kou: I'm looking over here at the Packet that the applicant
had submitted in terms of some of the other buildings that are here in
Downtown. I'm looking at this, and I think one of the best examples is 626
Waverley Street, with its massive, tall building. The thing is Waverley is
actually a wider street. You're putting a building of that mass and that size
on a much smaller street. While it fronts University, which is also wider,
there is also Kipling that is much more narrow. I think the diagrams that
we've received show the lanes to be wider, so it takes it off—even these
diagrams up here, you can see that the streets appear to be much wider,
and there's a lot more room. When I drove down Kipling, I agree with JC
Andrade. There were cars coming at me, and I thought I was going to lose
my mirror also. It is not as wide as it looks over here. I do have a great
concern in terms of the mass of this building and how it transitions to the
rest of the street over there. I was actually looking at it from Lytton, looking
down towards University. If this building goes up, it's just this big wall when
you're looking down the street. I really can't see this as a good transition or
harmonious to the neighborhood or even fitting with the Victorian homes
that are on that street. It is a narrow street, and it is a very pretty street. I
love walking down it and looking at the homes. It's a very different building.

Mayor Scharff: Council Member Filseth.

Council Member Filseth: Just really briefly, I think there's been some
discussion gravitating toward Option 1 being in the direction that we had
discussed some months ago. I just want to comment briefly on Options 2
and 3. Most of the discussion that we're really having, in fact that we had in
the last meeting, was about harmonious transition, scale, and massing, and
context. To me, again these things, as has been pointed out, have an
element of subjectiveness to them. To me, Options 3 and 2, which are
basically four-story buildings, the transitions are obviously pretty sharp. To
me, that one obviously fails. Option 2 fails on Kipling, and Option 3 fails on
University. I'll stop there.

Mayor Scharff: Council Member Holman.

Council Member Holman: Just a couple of things I hope we'll keep in mind
here. Our alleyways are important connectors in our Downtown area. The
City's actually looking to activate a number of alleyways in the very near
future and recognize the importance of our alleyways. Again, if we're going
to make a good environment and a pedestrian-friendly environment, we
                                                                          Page 62 of 78
                                                                   City Council Meeting
                                                                     Transcript: 2/6/17
                          TRANSCRIPT
shouldn't overlook the alleyway either. Kipling especially at night is a street
of very strong character, and it's very obvious. During the daytime, it is. At
night time, it especially is.      When looking at compatibility, rhythm,
transition, and scale, we're not looking at 429 University Avenue in
comparison to 525 University Avenue. We're looking at the building in its
context of the more immediate vicinity, the more immediate environment. I
would point to the recent Citizens Survey. What it seems to me is that when
we have projects that don't comply with, aren't consistent with our
Downtown Urban Design Guidelines and our Context Based Design Criteria
and our ARB findings, projects are either appealed or they're very unpopular
as we see and hear comments. The Citizens Survey has given us a declining
score on development the last several years. I think it's really important
that we pay attention to these matters. While they're not numerical, they
are just as important. Board Member Lew has brought forward and I've
mentioned too there are ways that buildings—not to repeat what I said
earlier—there are ways that even this building could make itself more
compatible and more transitional. I don't know why the applicant has been
resistant to making those changes. To this point, they seem to have done
that in ways that I've described previously and other Council Members have
spoken to and members of the public.

Mayor Scharff: Council Member Tanaka.

Council Member Tanaka: I have a few questions for Staff. A lot of the
public speakers and a lot of the emails that we got had concern around three
topics. One was traffic; another was parking, and then the third was the
idea of mass or square footage or FAR. I want to take each of these Items
one-by-one. For traffic, with the studies that Staff has done, is there an
issue with traffic here at this project?

Mr. Lait: Thank you, Council Member. We did do a Traffic Study. In fact,
we also did a—what did we call it? We did a TIA, but then we also did the
residential one, the traffic index—some other study that we don't typically
require because of the concerns that we heard expressed about this issue.
This was in support and concurrence with the applicant. The results of that
showed that this did not trigger any threshold for significance in terms of
traffic impacts related to this project.

Council Member Tanaka: What about parking?

Mr. Lait: Parking is a function of meeting Code. The project meets the
development standards with respect to the parking. It is located within the
Parking Assessment District. The property owner has been assessed parking
spaces for contribution to the parking lot. There's a, I'll say, credit for those

                                                                          Page 63 of 78
                                                                   City Council Meeting
                                                                     Transcript: 2/6/17
                         TRANSCRIPT
spaces not having to be provided on site. Some of the TDRs that we've
talked about this evening were parking exempt TDRs, which is not a current
standard that we allow in Code, but the applicant did have an opportunity to
use that.    The parking that is provided onsite assumes the Parking
Assessment, the parking-exempt TDRs, and the balance is provided onsite in
the two subterranean structures.

Council Member Tanaka: Is the accusation that the project is under-parked
true or not according to your findings?

Mr. Lait: I guess what I can tell you is that the parking as required by the
Municipal Code is met with the designs.

Council Member Tanaka: What about square footage and FAR? Is it within
the limits of that? I've heard from some of the members of the public in
letters that say it's way too much and it's not compliant. What is the truth
there?

Mr. Lait: A mixed-use project is allowed to have up to a 1.0 FAR for
commercial development and up to 1.0 for the residential development.
With the transfer of development rights, the applicant is available to take up
to another 1.0 FAR. In no instance shall the site exceed a 3.0 FAR. That
would take it to—I think the collective parcels are 11,000 square feet. A 3.0
FAR would take it to 33,000 square feet, which they are compliant with.

Council Member Tanaka: Really we're left with the architectural aspects in
terms of the compatibility.

Mr. Lait: I would refer the Council to the findings, the Architectural Review
Board findings and the context compatibility findings.

Council Member Tanaka: When I looked at it, the rules did look very
arbitrary, so it's kind of hard to know what the—exactly how do you
compare. Let me give you an example. Let's say, for instance, adjacent to
the building was a vacant lot. There's nothing; it was just vacant land. Is
that (inaudible) compare against, a vacant lot, or would you compare it
against other nearby buildings? I guess I'm trying to understand how close
to the—what is the basis of comparison? A lot of the buildings next to it, I
assume, could be built taller. Is that right or not?

Mr. Lait: What I would do is refer the Council to the different findings that
are made and are required pursuant to the Code. One of the findings that
the project is subject to is that it is compatible with the immediate
environment of the site, that it is compatible with the adjacent and
neighboring structures. That's the guidance that's provided in the Code.
                                                                        Page 64 of 78
                                                                 City Council Meeting
                                                                   Transcript: 2/6/17
                          TRANSCRIPT
Council Member Tanaka: What I'm wondering about is two things. Is it
what's there right now or what could be there? What I'm wondering is—let's
say, for instance, it was a vacant lot. That means it has to be compared to a
vacant lot or you compare it against a one-story building, which could
actually be two stories? I'm just trying to understand how does this work.

Mr. Lait: Again, I would refer you to the finding language itself. It doesn't
put forth that scenario. It just refers you to the neighborhood character and
the context of the neighborhood setting.

Council Member Tanaka: How immediate is immediate? Does that mean
next door or does it mean one block down? What does immediate mean?

Mr. Lait: I think that's a discussion that the Council has been having over
the course of this project. There's certainly examples that the Council and
the community members have drawn from, that are immediate to the
subject site and then also drawn from other properties that are nearby.

Council Member Tanaka: This is kind of a technical question. Kipling is a
very narrow street. I can't quite tell by looking at the picture on plan A.82.
From Kipling, if I stood on Kipling, on the sidewalk across the street from the
project, and looked up, could I see the fourth floor?

Mr. Lait: On Option 1 or …

Council Member Tanaka: Three.

Mr. Lait: Three.

Council Member Tanaka: It's such a narrow street you can't—the picture in
this plan looks like you're like—I don't know—pretty far from the project.
I'm not even sure if I could see—how much I could see given such a narrow
street?

Mr. Lait: I don't have the exact information about the perspective angle that
this is taken from. Typically, it's taken from about a six-foot elevation.
Kipling is narrow at 29 feet, I believe is the right-of-way. I think this is
representative of what one might see out there, but I couldn't tell you for
certain what the specific dimension of that would be.

Council Member Tanaka: Does maybe the applicant know or does anyone
know can we see the fourth floor from the other side of Kipling if this was
built?

Mr. Lait: I would direct that through the Mayor to see if that's something
that you wanted to open up.
                                                                         Page 65 of 78
                                                                  City Council Meeting
                                                                    Transcript: 2/6/17
                          TRANSCRIPT
Mayor Scharff: The question is you want to ask the applicant on Option 3 …

Council Member Tanaka: Yeah. If we stood on Kipling, on the other side of
the street from this project, on the sidewalk at ground level, could we see
the fourth floor?

Mayor Scharff: I will allow the applicant to answer the question.

Elizabeth Wong, Applicant: That answer can be—we can estimate by looking
at the real model. I also want to tell you on Options 1 and 3 the building is
three stories high. There's no way to see the fourth story, because the
fourth story is 39 feet from the property line on Kipling Street. The only
thing that you see from Kipling Street is the elevator, and the glass structure
next to the elevator is the landing from the third floor to the fourth floor,
which we moved from the corner back 11 feet so that it would be less visible
to the passerby. Basically, the Options 1 and 3 are identical on Kipling
Street. The difference, if I could say only difference maybe with a little
range of error, is that the difference from Option 1 and Option 3 is that we
added the residential square footage on the fourth floor on the west side of
the building. We cannot make that building any shorter. It is three stories
on Kipling. This was done in deference to the appellant. We also made the
structure for the elevator glass because the approved version was concrete,
and he complained that the concrete was too much in his face. We moved
the building on the alley side 10 feet away from the alley at that corner,
again, to give him relief as he walked south on Kipling Street. Basically, the
only way to get rid of the elevator to make it truly three-stories high is to
get rid of the elevator. I'm not really sure that by Code you're allowed to
have a floor where you cannot access by handicap rules. I'm pretty sure
that you cannot eliminate the elevator to that floor, because then there
would be—handicapped people cannot get to that floor. If you're going to
have a fourth floor, then you're going to need the elevator. We did not
pursue Option 1 because, after giving up 3,000 square feet of
residential/office space, the appellant wrote to Jodie Gerhardt that is that all
she's doing. If that's all she's doing, then let's put the square footage back,
and let's put it away from Kipling so that he would not be able to see it.

Mayor Scharff: Thank you.

Council Member Tanaka: I just wanted to ask Staff. I'm not an architect …

Male: Could I be recognized just one moment? I was a resident on Kipling
…

Mayor Scharff: Nope, nope, nope.

                                                                           Page 66 of 78
                                                                    City Council Meeting
                                                                      Transcript: 2/6/17
                         TRANSCRIPT
Council Member Tanaka: I just wanted to ask Staff. This is the applicant's
point of view. Is this true that you could only really probably see the
elevator from the sidewalk on the other side or is …

Hillary Gitelman, Planning and Community Environment Director: Thank
you, Council Member Tanaka. Hillary Gitelman, the Planning Director. In
our view, Option 1 and Option 3 are very similar from Kipling. From right
across the street, we don't think very much would be visible at all. We
would further enhance Option 1 with the condition we've suggested to bring
the height of the elevator down, so it doesn't exceed 50 feet. You are going
to be able to see the elevator and that other piece behind it, depending on
where you are on Kipling, because you'll see it at an angle. It has to a large
extent addressed what some of the other schemes had as a much more
prominent fourth-floor mass on Kipling. The elevator and the stair tower
were much more prominent. We do think that Option 1 and Option 3 are
going in the right direction on the Kipling side.

Mayor Scharff: Are you done? One more. Go ahead.

Council Member Tanaka:       Can you go back to the Code which says
immediate. What I'm interested in knowing from Staff's experience is when
we say immediate environment, for previous projects that's come before
Staff, what did immediate environment mean?

Ms. Gitelman: Thank you, Council Member Tanaka. I think we shouldn't
take one of these findings out of the context of all the other findings about
context. It really takes some interpretation and thought when looking at
these Architectural Review findings and the Context Based Design Criteria.
While you could probably parse them and find some of them that are
applicable to just the building right next door, I think as a whole they allow
you to read projects and the site in a larger setting, both the immediately
adjacent buildings and then the general vicinity, how these buildings are
experienced on the street.

Council Member Tanaka: I see. You're saying that we should look at the
larger picture, and there's actually a little bit of leeway. It's not just
immediate, adjacent building.

Ms. Gitelman: Yes.

Council Member Tanaka: Thank you.

Mayor Scharff: I think Option 1 meets what we're looking for, for the most
part, with what Staff has put forward on Packet Page 527 under
recommended Conditions of Approval. I think it brings down the elevator
                                                                        Page 67 of 78
                                                                 City Council Meeting
                                                                   Transcript: 2/6/17
                          TRANSCRIPT
adjacent to Kipling Street inclusive of any associated mechanical equipment
shall not exceed the 50-foot height limit. With all of that, I think we would
be good on Kipling Street. With that, I wanted to say that Staff has done a
really good job on this project in terms of outlining Option 1 and how it
moves us forward to be responsive to what Council suggested. I actually
appreciate the applicant putting forth Option 1 on this process as we go
through it. With that, I'll move that we do Option 1 with all of the
recommended Conditions of Approval, which are on Packet Page 527 and
Packet Page 528 and partly on Packet Page 529.

Council Member Filseth: I'll second.

MOTION: Mayor Scharff moved, seconded by Council Member Filseth to:

A.    Deny the Appeal; and

B.    Approve the Mitigated Negative Declaration and Mitigation and
      Monitoring Plan; and

C.    Approve a modified project (Option 1) with conditions included in the
      Staff Report, Pages 6-8; and

D.    Direct Staff to return with written findings for adoption.

Mayor Scharff: Let's first get the Motion up there. While we're doing that,
I'll speak to my Motion. This has been a long road in the community. It's
been a long road for the appellant and everyone. It's time to basically put
this issue behind us. I think by going with Option 1, we're being responsive
to the concerns on Kipling Street. We're being responsive to the concerns of
the community, and we are putting this process forward for Mrs. Wong, who
actually ends up with a project. She is entitled to have a project. By going
through it in this way, I think Staff did a really good job on the Conditions of
Approval. I hope you'll support it. Council Member Filseth.

Council Member Filseth: Thanks very much. I think there's been a lot of
discussion about the pros and cons of this building with respect to the
community. All of that stuff kind of isn't relevant for what we're talking
about here. Just on that subject, because the public's talked about it, not
because it's covered in the appeal, this makes our housing crunch worse, not
better. It's bad for sustainability, not good for sustainability. It gets rid of
1,500 square feet of retail and so forth. That's not really what we're here to
discuss. We're really here to discuss the applicant's property rights in the
context of our Codes. The Codes include the compatibility and Context
Based Design Criteria, and that's what we're looking at here. It's pretty
obvious to me that Options 2 and 3 don't meet the compatibility criteria. It's
                                                                          Page 68 of 78
                                                                   City Council Meeting
                                                                     Transcript: 2/6/17
                          TRANSCRIPT
not completely obvious to me that a three-story building does, but I can't be
certain it doesn't, so I think we should support going forward. I think I
concur with the Mayor that Staff's done a very good job on this. We've
worked through our process, and I think it's going to produce an outcome
which is consistent with our Codes. That's what's important here. Thanks.

Mayor Scharff: Council Member Kou.

Mayor Scharff: You want to pass. Council Member Holman.

Council Member Holman: I'm going to offer a Substitute Motion. My Motion
is to deny the project due to inability to make the findings recorded as part
of the Council's prior review of this project, found on Pages 4 and 5 of the
Staff Report, and consistent with the ARB denial. I'll speak to the Motion
after hopefully getting a second.

Council Member Kou: I'll second it.

SUBSTITUTE MOTION: Council Member Holman moved, seconded by
Council Member Kou to deny the Project due to the inability to make
Architectural Review Findings as part of the Council’s prior review from Staff
Report Pages 4-5 and the Architectural Review Board recommendation to
deny the Project.

Mayor Scharff: Speak to your Motion.

Council Member Holman: Several things. Some of this is a repeat of some
of the things I've said earlier, and some of it is not. This building continues
to be prominently one design for the length of the University Avenue
frontage. It's not broken down into matching the rhythm that's on the
street. The same design elements that are larger in scale than other
buildings in the vicinity continue to be prominent and dominant. The most
forward of the concrete, large box design are not consistent with the pattern
of the street, and they are the dominant elements. That's true whether it is
the former Apple store across the street, across the corner, or whether it is
the buildings on the same block on University Avenue. It's also true when
looking at the Varsity Theatre. There aren't shared—I'm not talking about
style here. Again, I'm talking about design. There aren't any shared
criteria, no rhythm on the street, no pedestrian-scale elements that you find
in the Varsity Theatre, which is the terminus of Kipling Street. On the
Kipling side, it's very hard to see what we're going to get because that
rendering was not provided along with the plans for Option 1. I'm not sure
how clear it is what we would be adjusting or how it is or isn't compatible.
Just looking at the line drawings, it looks like it suffers the same failings that
it does on University Avenue. That's what it seems to be. Just as a
                                                                           Page 69 of 78
                                                                    City Council Meeting
                                                                      Transcript: 2/6/17
                          TRANSCRIPT
comment, I actually don't find that Options 3, 2 and 1 are that similar. I
think there are pretty significant differences among them. For instance,
Option 3 differs in mass, scale, FAR, setback, design features including on
the University Avenue side of the project nearest Kipling, and the number of
parking places. That's a lot of differences if we're saying that they're
similar. I don't see how we could actually say that. I will stop there. Again,
focusing on the Council's prior review of this project and those findings that
we could not make then on Pages 4 and 5 of the Staff Report and also on
the ARB findings that they could not make as well in making the denial
recommendation for the project.

Mayor Scharff: Council Member Kou.

Council Member Kou: I'll go back to my earlier comments. This is a
massive building. The mass and the scale of it is very large. I brought up
the 636 Waverley property. That's what I fear will be on that corner of
Kipling and University. With Kipling being a narrow street, I just don't see a
three-story with that kind of mass and scale as something that would be
considered as compatible. Council Member Holman has mentioned the other
parts of it. I still think that it is not compatible. Just going back for modified
projects, it's looking at a building that's going to be there for 50-plus years,
that is going to be an impact on the other houses on Kipling Street.

Mayor Scharff: Council Member DuBois.

Council Member DuBois: I've been listening to my Colleagues and looking at
these various options. I've heard Option 1 referred to as a three-story
building. Just to clarify, it is a four-story building. Correct? I still cannot
make the findings that are consistent with our earlier meetings on Pages 4
and 5, particularly 18.18.110. I keep looking at these findings. I find that I
will support the Substitute Motion because I don't believe I can make these
findings.

Mayor Scharff: Seeing no further lights, let's vote on the Substitute Motion.
The Substitute Motion fails on a 5-3 vote with Council Members DuBois, Kou,
and Holman voting yes.

SUBSTITUTE MOTION FAILED:               3-5 DuBois, Holman, Kou yes, Kniss
absent

Mayor Scharff: Now, let's vote on the—I see no lights, so now let's vote on
the—you want to put your light on?

Council Member Holman: I don't think anybody's spoken to the main Motion
except for the maker and seconder, I think.
                                                                           Page 70 of 78
                                                                    City Council Meeting
                                                                      Transcript: 2/6/17
                          TRANSCRIPT
Mayor Scharff: Feel free to speak; I just saw no lights. I'm not …

Council Member Holman: I think there are some basic design changes that
we could recommend for this. It's not like you really want to design from
the dais. That's not what's particularly a good thing to do. I strongly
suggest that we incorporate into the Motion that the height of the, as I've
referred to them, dominant and prominent first-floor concrete elements be
lowered to be more consistent with what the first-floor pattern is on the
street. That doesn't change the interior ceiling heights. It brings the
exterior visual effect down to be more consistent with the street pattern.

Mayor Scharff: That's your (inaudible). I'd have to ask Staff. I noticed that
the Staff Report talks about that the Option 1 plans reflect the pattern of
development of doorway and glazing space, roughly 25 feet in width. I just
ask Staff about that, about the …

Council Member Holman: Can I comment first? If I could.

Mayor Scharff: Sure.

Council Member Holman: The reason that the 25-foot—it's hard to tell
because dimensions weren't really well provided for this. I appreciate that
the entrances are, in theory at least, at 25-foot intervals, but that's not the
experience that one is going to have on the street. The experience one is
going to have of this building is again these prominent and dominant
concrete elements that are forward of the entrances, especially because
they're lighter in color. The light's going to hit them. The doorways are
recessed, which isn't necessarily a bad thing. The way that they're recessed
here behind these sections, it's not the experience that you're going to have
on the street.

Mayor Scharff: I'm waiting for Staff to respond.

Ms. Gitelman: Thank you. Through the Mayor, just quickly I'm not sure
that I completely understand what the Council Member is suggesting in
terms of design changes. We do have a condition that we're suggesting,
that's been incorporated into the Motion, that the applicant would return to
the Architectural Review Board for review and recommendations of exterior
building materials, colors, and craftsmanship. While that wouldn't create
room for a total redesign, some of these finish and design choices on the
exterior could be addressed in that context.

Council Member Holman: This isn't materials or finishes. This is literally the
design. It's literally design.

                                                                         Page 71 of 78
                                                                  City Council Meeting
                                                                    Transcript: 2/6/17
                          TRANSCRIPT
Ms. Gitelman: I guess I'm having trouble understanding exactly what kind
of changes you would be requesting.

Mayor Scharff: Council Member Holman. Council Member Holman, I'm not
going to accept it. I think it's a little scary to be designing it from the dais,
especially when Staff seems unclear on it. If there's a clearer sense—I
guess I'm just not going to accept it. If you get a second.

Council Member Holman: Is there a laser I can point on the screen to what
I'm talking about?

Mayor Scharff: I will allow, if there is such a thing, for you to explain if you
want to.

Council Member Holman: Is there a laser anywhere? Can anybody see
that? I'm talking about that element right there, that runs the—except for
the one interruption in the sort of middle. That element, if it were lowered
to be—if I can do this—if that element were lowered—I can't even find it
now. Here we go. If this element, this design feature here—how do I get
rid of that—was lowered down to about here so that it provides more of a
cover and a pedestrian-scale cover over the entrances and is more
consistent with what you see in the other buildings on the block like here—
right now this is about at a story and a half when compared to the buildings
next door. This goes half way up the parapet of the building next door.

Mayor Scharff: Would it satisfy you if we made that up to the discretion of
the ARB?

Council Member Holman: Except that it's not in the Motion because the
discretion of the ARB does not include design.

Ms. Gitelman: I'm afraid that that sounds like really a structural change to
the building that would take—I don't think it's something we can do right
here. I think it would require consultation with the architectural design team
to determine whether that request could be accommodated.

Mayor Scharff: No, I can't accept that then.

Council Member Holman: How could we give some kind of guidance to the
ARB? Again, I agree. It's not good to be sitting here and trying to design a
project. I'm trying to point out things that are reasons that I can't make
findings and trying to get the project closer to being able to make the
findings, which is difficult given where we're starting here. Staff is being
mum on how we can go about doing that.


                                                                          Page 72 of 78
                                                                   City Council Meeting
                                                                     Transcript: 2/6/17
                          TRANSCRIPT
Mayor Scharff: Council Member Holman, I think we need to move on, unless
you can get a second. Council Member Holman, are you done?

Council Member Holman: Yeah. I'm not hearing a second.

AMENDMENT:        Council Member Holman moved, seconded by Council
Member XX to add to the Motion, “that the height of the prominent First
Floor concrete elements be lowered to be consistent with the prevailing
street pattern.”

AMENDMENT FAILED DUE TO THE LACK OF A SECOND

Mayor Scharff: Council Member Fine.

Council Member Fine: Just very quickly. Being a newbie here on the
Council, I'm still learning. It's very clear that this process did not work well
on this project, whether we talk about Council, ARB, the applicant. In fact, I
would commend you, Mr. Harbour. In many ways you've provided a very
professional interaction here, presented good evidence around this issue and
helped shape this project. Everything else, I think, has not been that
professional. That said, I am going to support the Motion. I do believe
Option 1 is compatible with our Downtown, which is a mixed area. As some
others have mentioned here, property owners do have rights, which our City
has a responsibility to uphold. While this isn't perfect, it is what it is. I will
be supporting the original Motion.

Mayor Scharff: Council Member Wolbach.

Council Member Wolbach:         I think I'm going to support the Motion,
especially because it has the additional conditions that Staff took the time to
stipulate. Those kind of seal the deal for me. Do I love the building? No,
but that's not the question. The law is the law. The law doesn't say
everybody must love the building. I certainly don't; it's not my favorite
style. There's a limit to what we've allowed ourselves to do through the law.
I do feel that it does meet the conditions barely, but I think it does. The
impact on Kipling, there will be some. I'm not going to say that there's not
going to be an impact. The question is whether it's compatible enough that
we can allow the applicant to move forward. I just, again, want to commend
Staff and the ARB and the applicant and the appellant for a tremendous
amount of patience through a very long process. I'm just going to throw out
a couple of things to think about. I don't want to get too deep into them
because they're not exactly what's on our Agenda right now. A couple of
things to think about as far as improving our process. We're talking about
this gray area and this question and uncertainty about how many stories can
you have next to X number of stories that are present. Our neighboring city
                                                                           Page 73 of 78
                                                                    City Council Meeting
                                                                      Transcript: 2/6/17
                          TRANSCRIPT
of Mountain View, I know, has some step-down requirements. I don't know
the details of how that works in Mountain View. I'd heard it works well to
have—they have some clear rules maybe that we might want to look at
about based on the surrounding buildings how high can you build next to
that or across from that. Something to think about. It's also another
example of why we should look at having mixed-use zoning that is more
housing, more homes, and smaller unit homes over retail. As Council
Member Filseth pointed out, this makes the jobs/housing imbalance worse,
not better. That's what our zoning is. When this project started, the calls
for more housing in the community weren't as strong as they are now. It
just kind of reinforces the discussions that have been happening around the
need to change the zoning priorities to be housing over retail. It's also a
good example of where we might want to think about a future of having
coordinated area plans as a more regular zoning tool. This kind of complex
intersection of styles, not just streets, and the complexity of this area, I wish
we'd had a better process, but it's the process that we have. I wish we had
better zoning and better Codes, but they're the zoning and the Codes that
we have. I'm not super thrilled with this, but I am going to support it
reluctantly.

Mayor Scharff: Council Member DuBois.

Council Member DuBois: Staff talks about this would be subject to more
detailed Code review when it comes to a building stage. If we're approving
Option 1 here, do we have sufficient detail to know that Option 1 is what
gets submitted?

Ms. Gitelman: I think we're going to have to make sure that what we get
matches the Council's Motion here. We're committing to do that.

Council Member DuBois: I'd offer a friendly Amendment, "E," that this
approval is subject to the actual project matching Option 1. Just because
we've had so many variations, I think we need to be very clear that's what
we're approving.

Mayor Scharff: That's fine. From what I understand, Council Member
DuBois' Motion is that the approval is subject to the project actually
matching Option 1 as described by Staff. Is that—I see no downside to that.

Council Member DuBois: Is that accepted then?

Mayor Scharff: Unless Staff has some objection, forever hold your peace.




                                                                          Page 74 of 78
                                                                   City Council Meeting
                                                                     Transcript: 2/6/17
                          TRANSCRIPT
Ms. Gitelman: That would be how we would implement this Motion. I guess
with the reiteration we would come back to you if we felt like the plan set we
got was trending off in another direction.

Mayor Scharff: That's fine.

Council Member DuBois: That's what I'm asking for.

INCORPORATED INTO THE MOTION WITH THE CONSENT OF THE
MAKER AND SECONDER to add to the Motion, “this approval is subject to
the actual Project matching Option 1 as described by Staff.” (New Part E)

MOTION AS AMENDED RESTATED:               Mayor Scharff moved, seconded by
Council Member Filseth to:

A.    Deny the Appeal; and

B.    Approve the Mitigated Negative Declaration and Mitigation and
      Monitoring Plan; and

C.    Approve a modified project (Option 1) with conditions included in the
      Staff Report, Packet Pages 527-528; and

D.    Direct Staff to return with written findings for adoption; and

E.    This approval is subject to the actual Project matching Option 1 as
      described by Staff.

Mayor Scharff: I see no further lights. If we could vote on the board. That
passes on a 5-3 vote with Council Members DuBois, Kou, and Holman voting
no.

MOTION AS AMENDED PASSED:               5-3 DuBois, Holman, Kou no, Kniss
absent

Mayor Scharff: Thank you all for coming tonight. Congratulations on your
approval.

12.   PUBLIC HEARING: Review and Adoption of an Ordinance Amending
      Chapter 18 (Zoning) of the Palo Alto Municipal Code to Update Code
      Sections Regarding Accessory Dwelling Units.

      STAFF REQUESTS THIS ITEM BE CONTINUED TO MARCH 6, 2017.




                                                                         Page 75 of 78
                                                                  City Council Meeting
                                                                    Transcript: 2/6/17
                           TRANSCRIPT
Study Session

2.      Update on Stanford University's General Use Plan (GUP) Application to
        Santa Clara County.

This Agenda Item continued to February 27, 2017.

Inter-Governmental Legislative Affairs

None.

Council Member Questions, Comments and Announcements

Mayor Scharff: Now, we go to Council Member Questions, Comments and
Announcements. Tom, did you put on your light or did I just not turn yours
off?

Ms. Gitelman: I'm sorry.

Mayor Scharff: Council Member Holman.

Council Member Holman: It's going to be a little bit noisy I think. Can we
ask the public to move to the lobby? I've actually provided to David
Carnahan something I'm going to be reading. My comments are these. The
Staff bring back to the Council at the earliest opportunity the consideration
of taking the programs out of the body of the Comprehensive Plan. While I
acknowledge that reconsideration of an action is typically made by a
member of the prevailing side, this referenced action had a number of
unusual and far-reaching implications including—these are in no particular
order—(a) no discussion by Council or presentation by Staff as an option;
(b) a radical departure from the Comp Plan work that has been ongoing
since 2008 and most intensively the last 18-24 months; (c) lack of clarity
among at least some Council Members, Staff, and public what happens to
the programs and their influence if other than in the body of the
Comprehensive Plan. Could we ask the public to move to the lobby please?
Could we ask the public to move to the lobby please or lower the tone? (d)
Concern about a show of disrespect for the intensive efforts of members of
the CAC; (e) the manner of voting was not one that supports transparency
or discussion of issues and, while the Chair has discretion on running
meetings, the Comp Plan deserves a consensus discussion around process
given the radical departure from typical procedures. Making policy is not a
lightning-round event. (f) It is further procedurally not clear if we were
actually voting on whether to discuss the various matters or voting on a
Motion to approve the matter. While not part of what I ask here, I am also
greatly concerned about other far-reaching, impactful decisions brought up
                                                                       Page 76 of 78
                                                                City Council Meeting
                                                                  Transcript: 2/6/17
                         TRANSCRIPT
last week in such rapid-fire manner, without consensus of the body to
proceed thusly, and about things not previously vetted by Staff, CAC, public
or Council such as 3.0 FAR for hotels.

Mayor Scharff: Seeing no further lights, we're adjourned.

Council Member Holman: Wait, wait, wait. Is no one going to comment on
that? I thought …

Mayor Scharff: This is not a discussion (inaudible).

Council Member Holman: No, but this acts as a Colleagues' Memo if
someone else wants to comment.

Council Member DuBois: I would second that. Were you making a Motion?

Council Member Holman: I'm sorry?

Council Member DuBois: Were you making a Motion?

Council Member Holman: Yes. I'm putting this forward as a Colleagues'
Memo. It's how we do it. It's what our procedures are. If someone puts
something forward at the end of a meeting and somebody else supports it, it
acts as a Colleagues' Memo.

Molly Stump, City Attorney: Council Members, there have been very few
number of cases in the past number of years where Colleagues' Memos have
been made orally. As you know, in your procedures, they do call for a
written Colleagues' Memo process that gets distributed to Staff and has Staff
input, and then is placed on the Council's Agenda. I would maybe just note
also that perhaps this is really a timing question because the Staff was
intending to bring back this item anyway based on the preliminary direction
that Staff received from Council on Monday. I don't know that it's clear to
us …

Council Member Holman: This goes a little bit—not to interrupt you. I'm
sorry. This goes a little further than that. What I understand Staff's going
to bring back to Council is talking about what the action that was taken
means. What I’m asking for here is that the Staff bring back to the Council
at the earliest opportunity the consideration of taking the programs out of
the body of the Comprehensive Plan …

Mayor Scharff: Council Member Holman …

Council Member Holman: … because we don't know what that means.

                                                                       Page 77 of 78
                                                                City Council Meeting
                                                                  Transcript: 2/6/17
                        TRANSCRIPT
Mayor Scharff: … what you're asking for is a Motion for reconsideration.
Under our procedures, a Motion for reconsideration would not be appropriate
at this time. The answer is no, and I’m adjourning the meeting. Meeting
adjourned.

Adjournment: The meeting was adjourned at 11:11 P.M.




                                                                     Page 78 of 78
                                                              City Council Meeting
                                                                Transcript: 2/6/17
                    City of Palo Alto                                             (ID # 7376)
                    City Council Staff Report

Report Type: Action Items                         Meeting Date: 2/6/2017

Summary Title: 429 University Avenue: Appeal of Mixed Use Project

Title: PUBLIC HEARING: 429 University Avenue [14PLN-00222]: To Consider a
Continued Appeal of the Director of Planning and Community Environment’s
Architectural Review Approval of a 31,407 Square-foot, Four Story, Mixed use
Building With Parking Facilities on two Subterranean Levels on an 11,000
Square-foot Site. Environmental Assessment: Mitigated Negative Declaration
was Circulated on November 17, 2014 to December 12, 2014. Zoning District:
CD-C (GF)(P). The Council Previously Considered this Appeal on November
30, 2015 and Remanded it to the Architectural Review Board for Redesign
and Further Review Based on Council’s Direction

From: City Manager

Lead Department: Planning and Community Environment


Recommendation:
Staff recommends the City Council direct staff to prepare a Record of Land Use Action to either:

    1) deny the appeal, approve the Mitigated Negative Declaration (Attachments F-H) and
       Mitigation and Monitoring Plan (Attachment I) and approve a modified project (Option
       1, 2, or 3) with or without conditions, directing staff to return with written findings for
       adoption;

         Or

    2) uphold the appeal and deny a modified project (Option 1, 2, and 3) based on the
       Architectural Review Board’s recommendation of October 20, 2016 and a finding that
       proposed project modifications have not addressed the Council’s previous concerns,
       directing staff to return with written findings for adoption.

[Note: Option 1 is similar to that reviewed by the Architectural Review Board on September 1,


City of Palo Alto                                                                           Page 1
2016 and was revised and resubmitted by the Applicant on October 26, 2016 to address the
Board’s comments. Staff believes that with the adjustments discussed below Option 1 best
addresses the Council’s previous concerns. Option 2 was reviewed by the Architectural Review
Board on October 20, 2016 and recommended for denial. Option 3 is a middle option submitted
by the Applicant on December 8, 2016. All of these options can be considered for approval (with
or without additional conditions) or denial based on required architectural review findings.]

Executive Summary:
The applicant is proposing redevelopment of three properties at the southwest corner of
University Avenue and Kipling Street. The director’s decision on the project was appealed and
the Council remanded the project to the Historic Resources and Architectural Review Boards to
address several specific design issues. It has been 18 months since the Council’s initial appeal
hearing and 12 months since the Council’s second appeal hearing. In the elapsed time, the
applicant has changed architects – and designs – several times, submitting revised project plans
and extending the review time required to address Council direction and comments from the
HRB and ARB.

Most recently, the ARB reviewed the iteration of the project referred to here as Option 2
(Attachment M) on October 20, 2016, and recommended the Council uphold the appeal and
deny the project due to an inability to make the required findings. Prior to this
recommendation, the ARB had reviewed a set of schematic drawings that reduced the
proposed building mass at the fourth floor and resulted in about 3,000 square feet in less
building area at a study session on September 1, 2016. Staff believes these plans (referenced in
this report as Option 1 and available as Attachment L) were more responsive to Council and
Board member comments. However, the applicant did not develop this schematic drawing
further until after the ARB’s October 20, 2016 meeting and recommendation.

Following ARB’s recommendation, the applicant elected to submit additional information about
Option 1, including some of the changes requested by the ARB at their study session. Rather
than send the matter back to ARB, staff previously made this supplemental information
available to the appellant and, through this report, to the public with the calendaring of this
public hearing in front of the Council. Staff continues to have concerns with some elements of
the design, which it believes can be remedied through the conditions discussed below, but on
balance, the design presented here as Option 1 appears most responsive, compared to all other
iterations, to earlier Council comments. Attachment D contains a link to these comments from
the City Council meeting on November 30, 2015.

A third option (Option 3) was submitted by the applicant in December. According to the
applicant, this design is essentially the September 1, 2016 study session proposal with the
fourth floor from an earlier submission (discussed by the ARB on August 4, 2016). A summary
of the square footages of the three options is provided below:

         Table 1. Summary of Current Design Options - 429 University Ave.


City of Palo Alto                                                                         Page 2
                    Non Res.     Res.     Total       Res.          Parking
      Option         Square    Square    Square      Dwelling      Spaces On             Notes
                    Footage    Footage   Footage      Units           Site
                                                                                    Discussed at ARB Study
                                                                                    Session 9/1/16 and
    Option 1     20,407       8,140       28,547          3              34
                                                                                    subsequently modified
                                                                                    to address comments.
                                                                                    Recommended for
    Option 2     20,407      11,000       31,407          5              38         denial by the ARB
                                                                                    10/20/16.
                                                                                    Further modification
                                                                                    submitted by the
    Option 3     20,407      10,750       31,157          4              34         applicant 12/8/16 to
                                                                                    address ARB and
                                                                                    Council concerns.
    Note: See Attachment E for a more detailed comparison of all three options with code requirements.
                                            Source: Palo Alto Planning & Community Environment, January 2017


Background:
The subject project has been an active application since its filing in June 2014. The project as
approved by the Director in February 2015 complied with the development standards of the
code, but was appealed based on compliance with required findings. On November 30, 2015
the Council on 9-0 vote agreed that further refinement was needed to address a variety of
concerns related to the project’s mass and scale, transition to other buildings (contextual
setting) and nearby historic properties, parking and loading, and other issues.

The project takes advantage of provisions in the code that allow a transfer of floor area, or
development rights, to this building. Additionally, the project is located in the parking district
and relies on parking in downtown garages due to the property owner’s contributions to the
parking district. Another concern raised with this project is the lack of an on-site loading space.
Consistent with prior downtown approvals, including Council approved projects on appeal, the
loading space is not provided on site and relies instead on other loading zone opportunities
downtown and the alley immediately behind the building. Council has since directed staff to
make changes to the code to clarify conditions when on-site loading is required; the Planning
and Transportation Commission recently completed its review of a draft ordinance and the
matter will be presented to the City Council in February.

Attached to this report (Attachment D) is a chronology of the project from the filing of the
application to this appeal hearing. There are links provided within the chronology to all prior
staff reports, minutes and videos available.




City of Palo Alto                                                                                    Page 3
The architectural review findings and context-based criteria that apply to this project are
included for the Council’s reference as Attachments A and B, respectively.1 The city’s
downtown urban design guidelines are available online at
 http://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/6514; these guidelines may be
informative to the Council’s review. A compliance review of the project (Options 1 and 2 and 3)
to code development standards is also provided (Attachment E). Finally, to re-familiarize the
Council with the project, a detailed project description is included that also reflects the project
revisions and various interactions over time (Attachment C).

It should be noted that there have been 14 hearings before the ARB, HRB and Council, including
the subject hearing, on this project. The applicant has also engaged four architects over the last
18 months, which has complicated reviews and extended the application processing timelines.
Additionally, despite the various plan modifications over time, on balance, the project designs
have not significantly deviated from the overall mass and size as first reviewed by the City
Council in May 2015. Changes have been incremental and not responsive to the volume of
information provided in the administrative record. Notwithstanding the above, staff believes
there is one conceptual plan concept (Option 1) that was presented to the ARB in September
2016 that, among the various iterations, best responds to Council concerns.

Discussion:
The City Council last reviewed the project on November 30, 2015. At that time, the Council
requested the applicant explore project revisions with the ARB to advance the specific findings
and criteria listed below.

While the applicant’s proposal has generally been consistent with the Code’s objective
development standards, the appellant’s objections have focused on the equally applicable
subjective design standards contained in the Code. Due to the applicant’s proposed lot
consolidation of two parcels, the University Avenue facing side of the lot serves as a gateway to
a vibrant downtown consisting of modestly scaled, but architecturally and historically
significant buildings. On the other hand, the Kipling facing side of the building anchors an
eclectic grouping of Victorian homes, at least one of which is still in residential use. The
Council’s earlier focus on the architectural findings and context-based design criteria
summarized below provided guidance on how the proposal could be modified to address this
design challenge.

Architectural Review Findings:
Palo Alto Municipal Code (PAMC) Chapter 18.76.020(d)

1
 Please note that on December 12, 2016, the City Council adopted an ordinance which consolidated and clarified
the City’s Architectural Review findings without making major, substantive changes. This ordinance became
effective on January 12, 2017. While the revised findings will be applicable to the project at 429 University and will
be cited in the final Record of Land Use Action, the findings in place at the time of the prior City Council and ARB
reviews of this project have been used in this report. Both versions of the findings are included in Attachment A
for the Council’s reference.


City of Palo Alto                                                                                              Page 4
        Finding 4: Architectural Review Findings in relation to design’s compatibility with areas
         as having a unified design character or historic character
        Finding 12: Architectural Review Findings in relation to compatibility and
         appropriateness in materials, textures, colors, details of construction and plant
         materials to the project’s function and to adjacent structures, landscape elements and
         functions

Context-Based Design Criteria to Consider:
PAMC Chapter 18.18.110
    (a)(1)(B): Contextual and Compatibility Criteria – Context: to provide appropriate
      transitions to those surroundings. "Context" is also not specific to architectural style or
      design, though in some instances relationships may be reinforced by an architectural
      response.
    (a)(2)(B)(i): Contextual and Compatibility Criteria – Compatibility goal in relation to
      siting, scale, massing and materials
    (a)(2)(B)(iii): Contextual and Compatibility Criteria – Compatibility goal in relation to
      pattern of roof lines and projections
    (b)(2)(B): Context-based Design Considerations and Findings – Street building facades in
      relation to eaves, overhang, porches and other architectural elements that provide
      human scale and help break up building mass

Option 1 has been the most responsive to concerns about the overall building mass and
provides better transitions to neighboring properties than others. Nearly all commercial
buildings in the immediate area have flat roof designs with false mansards/parapets facing the
street, including the commercial property across Lane 30 on Kipling Street. Most of the
commercial buildings have two story volumes or greater in height; the building across the alley
being a notable exception. The character for the balance of properties north on Kipling Street
has decidedly different architectural styles and building volumes that represent the residential
origins of these structures.

The pattern of the commercial areas on University Avenue at times and within this area, have a
rhythmic 25 foot (approximately) storefront design that contributes to a positive pedestrian
experience. However, there are exceptions to this design feature as well. The Option 1 plans
attempt to reflect this pattern of development with doorway and glazing spaced roughly 25
feet in width. It has a two-story volume adjacent to both streets and sets back the third floor
five feet from both streets. One exception to this statement, however, is the stairway and
elevator area adjacent to Kipling Street, which is at the property line. The stairway/elevator has
been a repeated concern from Council from the outset and there has been limited adjustment
of this design feature, except at the fourth floor.

Regarding the fourth floor, the Option 1 plan shows the fourth floor office area as setback
between 37 and 40 feet from Kipling Street and University Avenue, respectively. There is the


City of Palo Alto                                                                           Page 5
elevator shaft setback eleven feet from Kipling Street; bathrooms six feet from the adjacent
building at University Avenue (but all approximately 55 feet from University Avenue); and, the
rear setback at this floor level is close to nineteen feet from the alley.

A refinement between the Option 1 plan submitted to the ARB and now presented to the City
Council is the addition of a library at the third floor street corner. This is further addressed
below along with other recommended conditions of approval for Council consideration, if there
is interest in approving this design solution.

A challenge for this project is the massing dictated by its modern architectural style and
development program. Unlike other older buildings in the area, which have more traditional
design features, ornamentation and detailing, the proposal relies on a more modern
expression. There has been a lot change on University Avenue and many buildings reflect the
historic character of the street, but not all, including some in close proximity to the project site.
As previously noted by Council, compliance with the architectural finding regarding the
project’s design compatibility with areas having a unified design character remains a discussion
point. Approval or denial of the project may suggest there is or is not a unified design character
along this portion of University Avenue. Consideration should also be given to the unified
design and historic character of Kipling Street and to the extent that character should influence
building design on University Avenue. The Historical Resources Board reviewed the project on
September 10, 2015, and found that there are no offsite historical resources that would be affected
by the project. Additional information, including the staff report and minutes, are linked in Attachment
D.

Recommended Conditions of Approval
Should the Council’s deliberation on this matter conclude that Option 1 warrants approval, staff
recommends, in addition to typical conditions of approval, that the following conditions be
added:

        Applicant shall submit detailed plans that demonstrate compliance with floor area and
         other applicable development standards

         The purpose for this condition is to ensure project compliance with development
         standards. This design solution evolved recently and staff has not had sufficient time to
         conduct a comprehensive review.

        The fourth floor guardrails and planters shall be set back a minimum of five feet from
         the edge of the third floor roofline (all elevations), as modified by these conditions.

         The purpose for this condition is to reduce the building mass at that fourth floor.



City of Palo Alto                                                                                 Page 6
        The ‘library’ shown on the third floor, floor plans, at the street corner, shall be removed.

         The purpose for this condition is to reduce building mass at the street corner and third
         floor, provide building articulation and be consistent with the conceptual plans reviewed
         by the ARB and staff in September 2016.

        The third floor roofline above the removed ‘library’ area shall be setback to follow the
         third floor building footprint; reducing the building mass at the street corner.

         The purpose for this condition is to reduce building mass at the street corner and third
         floor, provide building articulation.

        A decorative wall design treatment, feature or element, shall be applied to the exterior
         walls immediately adjacent to the southern property line (project’s south elevation)
         starting at an elevation equivalent to the building height of the adjacent structure and
         extending to the roofline of the proposed building, subject to review by the
         Architectural Review Board.

         The purpose for this condition is to address the blank wall that will be visible when
         approaching the site from University Avenue. The intent of this condition is to provide
         visual interest and minimize the appearance of mass with the understanding that a
         future development on the adjacent property may someday obscure this design feature.
         One way to comply with this provision may be to set the building back a couple of inches
         to create visual relief. Staff proposes that any lost floor area specifically related to this
         condition, up to 100 square feet, be relocated to the fourth floor to maximize a creative
         solution without reducing the proposed square footage.

        The elevator adjacent to Kipling Street, inclusive of any associated mechanical
         equipment, shall not exceed fifty feet (50') in height.

         The purpose for this condition is to reduce building mass and provide a better transition
         to properties along Kipling Street.

        The applicant shall return to the Architectural Review Board for review and
         recommendation to the Director of Planning and Community Environment for landscape
         details and plans for all proposed planting, including individual planters, the greenwall,
         and landscaping near the rooftop elevator.




City of Palo Alto                                                                               Page 7
         The project uses landscaping to provide visual interest; however, these have been
         conceptually discussed and a more focused discussion and review is needed to ensure
         these concepts can be successfully implemented.

        The applicant shall return to the Architectural Review Board for review and
         recommendation to the Director of Planning and Community Environment of exterior
         building materials, colors and craftsmanship-related detailing associated with the
         project.

         The ARB reviewed only a schematic drawing of Option 1. The intent of this condition is to
         ensure the ARB reviews the exterior materials and colors and architectural details to
         improve design linkages, while still preserving the applicant’s intent to construct a
         contemporary building.

The above are staff recommended conditions should the Council find the project (Option 1)
compliant with applicable findings, guidelines and other criteria. The City Council may augment
or modify the above list as appropriate. One additional condition the Council may want to
consider has to do with recessed pedestrian entries. The ARB has consistently sought to
improve the pedestrian experience of this building, but there has been little refinement of this
feature over the different iterations.

In addition, it should be noted that all of the options discussed in this report will be subject to
more detailed review for code compliance at the building permit stage, if/when a single design
option has been advanced.

Options 2 & 3
For the purpose of this appeal hearing, staff agrees with the ARB that the project plans,
identified in this report as Option 2, do not meet the required findings, based on the previously
stated Council concerns. This plan set is provided to the Council for review and consideration in
case there is a different perspective from staff and the ARB.

As noted earlier, Option 3 was submitted by the applicant on December 8, 2016 with the
intention of reflecting the September 1, 2016 study session version (similar to Option 1), with a
fourth floor similar to an earlier design reviewed by the ARB on August 4, 2106. Option 3 plans
are included in Attachment N, and links to meeting minutes from the respective hearings are
provided in Attachment D. Due to the lateness of the submittal the ARB has not reviewed the
plans, nor has staff performed a detailed analysis other than to evaluate the project for code
compliance. However, it is noted that the most substantive change between the staff
supported Option 1 and Option 3 appears to be the addition of 2,610 square feet of floor area
primarily at the upper floor level to accommodate an additional housing unit. The mass and
scale of this option is similar to (and 250 square feet less than) Option 2, which was previously
reviewed by the ARB. If the City Council is interested in exploring Option 3 further, staff


City of Palo Alto                                                                            Page 8
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 8/23/2018 5:26 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                                    Roberta Ahlquist <roberta.ahlquist@sjsu.edu>
Sent:                                    Thursday, August 23, 2018 4:41 PM
To:                                      Council, City
Subject:                                 Why Privatize the 'Commons', the Public Sphere?



Ths is a letter re the privatization of the public good.

The Palo Alto City Council/staff have PRIVATIZED the Rinconada City PUBLIC Pool! Why?

It used to be a wonderful place, with diverse kids from all over, parents, and friends, in both pools on Sundays. It was a festive, happy, active
place, full of children learning to swim. Last Sunday the kids round, wading pool w/ fountains was closed, (Yet I think this is their regular
schedule) and only a few swimmers were there at first (1pm), in lap lanes only. When I left at 2:30 there were no more than 30 folks there,
mostly adult lap swimmers, and only 1 life guard on at 1pm, 2 later. Prices are nearly double what they were a couple of years ago. And
prices for swimming lessons are higher! What happened to our public, community pool??

Take it back. High school life-guards cost less, and they were very helpful, and the prices were reasonable, even for non-residents!. Do a
survey! Take the pool back so that it will be fully utilized, and kids can enjoy the local, public swimming pool.

Roberta Ahlquist

Palo Alto resident




                                                                        1
                                                            AGENDA ITEM NO .

•
                                                                       COUNCIL MEETING~
                                                                                                    6
CITY OF
PALO
                                      CITY OF PALO ALTO
                                       MEMORANDUM                   I     8-27-2018
                                                                      IZ]Received Before Meeting


ALTO

TO:                HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

FROM:              CITY MANAGER                             DEPARTMENT: Public Works



AGENDA DATE:        August 27, 2018                                                ID#:   9~237




SUBJECT:        Agenda item 6: Acceptance of the 2018 Zero Waste Plan; Direction to Staff to
                Develop a Proposed Contract Extension to the Current Refuse Hauling and
                Processing Contract with GreenWaste of Palo Alto to Implement the New Zero
                Waste Plan; and Direction to Staff to Prepare a Request for Proposal (RFP} for
                Related Refuse Services.

In light of two additional recommendations suggested by Bob Wenzlau and other community
members, staff recommends adding two more "Recommendations" (Nos. 4 & 5) to CMR 9237
(Item #6) as shown below.

Recommendations
Staff recommends that Council:

      1) Accept the 2018 Zero Waste Plan (Attachment A);

      2) Direct staff to develop a contract amendment to add scope and extend the term of the
         current contract with GreenWaste of Palo Alto, Inc. (GreenWaste) for collection of all
         refuse containers, processing recyclable and compostable materials (contents of blue
         and green containers), and implementation of key Zero Waste Plan initiatives; and

      3) Direct staff to prepare and issue a Request for Proposals (RFP) for garbage (contents of
         black containers) processing and disposal services that would begin in 2021.

      4} Direct staff to include a contract amendment with GreenWaste (as part of No. 2
         above) which requires GreenWaste to determine and report on the intermediate and
         final disposition of Palo Alto's paper and plastic recovered materials within six months
         of the Contract date in order to allow Palo Alto to determine whether the disposition
         of these materials meets Palo Alto's environmental and social goals.
                                                        AGENDA ITEM NO.
   5) Direct staff to prepare an update to the Zero Waste Plan (Attachment A) within 9
      months of the GreenWaste Contract Amendment date (referenced in No. 2 above)
      that contains alternative diversion rates which do not include as "diverted" any
      materials where the management or disposition falls short of Palo Alto's
      environmental or social goals.




Brad Eggleston                                     James Keene
Interim Public Works Director                      City Manager
                                                                                         <j'J .,Ml?G
                                                                                    ICOUNCI~
                                       Citll of Palo Alto
                                      Budget Com~arison                                          I .
                                             Aug-18                                  [ % d Before M~etmg
                                                                                     t Received at Meeung

                                 Budget     Budget                    Percentage
        Ex~enses bll Office    2005-2006   2018-2019    Variance        Increase
City Attorney                  $ 2,743     $    3,263   $    520             119%
City Auditor                   $     839   $    1,258   $    419             150%
City Clerk                     $     923   $    1,282   $      359           139%
City Council                   $     164   $      488   $      324           298%
City Manager                   $ 1,751     $    3,259   $    1,508           186%
Administrative Services        $ 6,344     $    7,963   $    1,619           126%
Office of Sustainability       $           $      417   $      417             0%
Community Services             $ 19,635    $   28,915   $    9,280           147%
Development Services           $           $   12,561   $   12,561             0%
Fire                           $ 20,160    $   31,826   $   11,666           158%
Human Services                 $ 2,355     $    3,634   $    1,279           154%
Library                        $ 5,633     $    9,664   $    4,031           172%
Office of Emergency Services   $           $    1,509   $    1,509             0%
Planning and Community         $ 8,766     $    8,791   $     (941)           89%
Police                         $ 23,314    $   41,951   $ 18,637             180%
Public Works                   $ 11,451    $   18,492   $ 7,041              161%
Non-Departmental               $ 9,043     $    7,825   $ (1,218)             87%
             subtotal          $ 113,121 $ 183,098 $ 69,011                 162%
Transfer to Infrastructure     $         $ 25,173 $ 25,173                    0%
Operating Transfer Out         $ 6,572 $ 5,725.00 $ (847)                    87%
                               $ 119,693 $ 213,996 $ 93,337                179%
                                                     Citv of Palo Alto
                                                    Budget ComRarison
                                                          Aug-18

                                         Budget           Budget                    Percentage
                                        2005-2006       2018-2019        Variance    Increase
        ExRenditures b)l Categories
Salaries and Benefits                 $ 81,572,572 $ 125,452,000 $ 43,879,428             154%
Contract Services                     $ 9,340,938 $ 21,334,000 $ 11,993,062               228%
Supplies and materials                $ 3,130,478 $     3,563,000 $    432,522            114%
General expenses                      $ 8,971,745 $ 10,074,000 $ 1,102,255                112%
Rents and Leases                      $     597,189 $   1,690,000 $ 1,092,811             283%
Debt Services                         $             $     613,000 $    613,000              0%
Facilities and Equipment Purchases    $     500,304 $     522,000 $     21,696            104%
Allocated Charges                     $ 10,006,793 $ 19,850,000 $ 9,843,207               198%
subtotal                              $ 114,120,019 $ 183,098,000 $ 68,977,981            160%
Operating Transfers Out               $ 6,572,356 $     5,725,000 $ (847,356)              87%
                                      $ 120,692,375 $ 188,823,000 $ 68,130,625            156%
                                       Cit)£ of Palo Alto
                                      Budget Com~arison
                                             Aug-18

                           Budget            Budget                       Percentage
          Revenues        2005-2006         2018-2019       Variance       Increase
Sales Tax                 $ 19,036 $             31,246     $ 12,210            164%
Property tax              $ 16,986 $             45,332     $ 28,346            267%
Transient Occupancy Tax   $ 6,173 $              25,049     $ 18,876            406%
Utility Users Tax         $   8,341     $        16,092     $    7,751          193%
Document transfer fee     $         $             7,434     $    7,434            0%
Other Taxes and Fines     $ 6,845   $             2,032     $   (4,813)          30%
Charges for Services      $ 18,760  $            28,015     $    9,255          149%
Permits and Licenses      $ 4,084   $             8,949     $    4,865          219%
Return on Investment      $ 2,215   $             1,166$        (1,049)          53%
Rental Income             $ 12,332  $            15,806$         3,474          128%
From other agencies       $     204 $               370$           166          181%
Charges to Other Funds    $ 8,924   $            10,093$         1,169          113%
Other Revenue             $ 1,721   $             2,361$           640          137%
subtotal                  $ 105,621 $          193,945 $ 88,324                 184%
Operating Transfer In     $ 15,108 $             19,772$ 4,664                  131%
subtotal                  $ 120,729 $          213,717 $ 92,988                 177%
     - - - - - - - - - --




--   --     coutq~~ftr-ING
 ---        Cl  Placeel Before M~etinr:r---­
            [ ] Received at Meeung
 ----
Wage Gap: County Figures and Rankings
Ratio of Women's to Men's Median Earnings for Individuals Employed Full-Time,
Year-Round in Past 12 Months, 2010-2014 (2014 dollars)
                                         RANK                                                      RANK
                         VALUE          1=BESf                                      VALUE        (1=BESf)
 California                .854                            Orange                     .825           29
 Alameda                   .844            26              Placer                     .778            44
 Alpine                    .845            25              Plumas                     .697            55
 Amador                    .741            51              Riverside                 .805            36
 Butte                     .765            45              Sacramento                .866             15
 Calaveras                 .801            37              San Benito                 .846           22
 Colusa                    .818            35              San Bernardino             .856            18
 Contra Costa              .782            41              San Diego                  .847            21
 Del Norte                 .709            52              San Francisco              .842            27
 El Dorado                 .668            57              San Joaquin                .821            33
 Fresno                     881            11              San Luis Obispo            750             48
 Glenn                     .885             7              San Mateo                  .867            14
 Humboldt                  .825            30              Santa Barbara              .850            19
 Imperial                  .779            43              Santa Clara                .741            50         ~        $7~~~
 Inyo                      .691            56              Santa Cruz                 .859            17
 Kern                      .754            47              Shasta                     .756            46
 Kings                     .824            31              Sierra                     .697            55
 Lake                       .622           58              Siskiyou                    873            13
 Lassen                    .697            55              Solano                     .886            6
 Los Angeles               .935             3              Sonoma                     .884            10
 Madera                    .947             2              Stanislaus                 .793            39
 Marin                      .790           40               SUtter                     826            28
 Mariposa                   .880            12              Tehama                    .780            42
 Mendocino                  .885            9               Trinity                   .885            9
 Merced                     .823            32              Tulare                    .862            16
 Modoc                     1.030                           Tuolumne                   .845            25
 Mono                      .845            25               Ventura                   .819            34
 Monterey                   .903            5               Yolo                      .848            20
 Napa                       924             4               Yuba                      .797            38
 Nevada                     .750           49
Note: Data compare the median earnings for all women to the median earnings for all men, across all races
and ethnicities. Data include individuals age 16 and over. Estimates for certain counties were deemed
unreliable due to data limitations. The following counties have been grouped to improve the reliability of the
data for this indicator: 1) Alpine, Mono, and Tuolumne; 2) Lassen, Plumas, and Serra; and 3) Mendocino and
Trinity.



                                                                                             cal budget cent er.org   2
                                                                                                                                         the WOMEN'S
            California Budget
        I   & Pohcy Center                                                                                                               FOUNDATION
                                                                                                                                         of CAI lfORNIA

BY KRISTIN SCHUMACHER                                                                                                                              MARCH 2018



                                           California Women's Well-Being Index
                                                     Wage Gap Fact Sheet
The California Women's Well-Being Index provides a comprehensive, composite measure of how women are
faring in each of the state's 58 counties. The Index encompasses five • dimensions" - Health, Personal Safety,
Employment & Earnings, Economic Security, and Political Empowerment - each of which is made up of six
indicators. This fact sheet shows statewide data by race and ethnicity for the Wage Gap Indicator, as well as
the value and rank for all 58 counties.



              Ratio of Women's to Men's Median Earnings for Individuals Employed
              Full-Time, Year-Round in Past 12 Months, 2010-2014 (2014 dollars)

                               I
                       Wi~ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .

                       ~m . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1111

                        Ba:k                                                                  Q63


              Rr:ificl~am      ,___ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __........
                                                               ....


                                                                                 05 1



                       Laira 1 - - - - - - - - - - -.><=
                                                    n.c.11



              Note Data compare the median earnings for women for each raoel and ethnic group to the med111n eamingsforWlite men. Data indude
              indi'lidualsage 16 and over " \/Ihle exdudesindividualswho al90 identify as Latina; whch means that the Wlite and Latina categories are
              mutually exdusve For race categones other than Wile ind1V1dualswho Identify as Latina may be counted in both a racial category (e g •
              · Bloc!<"! and in the Latina category. As9Jch Lalina and the non-Wlite racial categories are not mutually exdusive
              Source Budget Center analygs of US Cell9Js8ureau American Community SJrvey data




                      This publlcation is made possible in part by support from JPMorgan Chase & Co .


                                                                                                                                calbudgetcenter org
lhe Women's Foundation of California I Well-Being Index - The Wome ...                                                                http://womensfoundca.org/well-being/




         California Women's Well-Being Index
         In Partnership With the Women's Foundation of
         California
         Kristin Schumacher of the California Budget & Policy Center                                                    Get Data
                                                                                                                                                                                </>
         prepared this analysis.                                            Policy          (http://calbudgetcenter.org/wp-content/uploads/WWBl_Data.xlsx) Embed
                                                                       Recommendations
                     California, 43.1 %
         Marin, 28.3%              Economic Security > Food Insecurity
         Nevada, 29.S%
         Mendocino, 31.5%
         San Mateo, 31.7%
                                                                                                   Percentage of low- and moderate-income women age 18 and over
         San Luis Obispo, 31.8%
         Yolo, 3S.8%                                                                               who are food insecure, 2011-2014
         Orange, 36.1%
         Placer, 36.9%                                                                                     Download Indicator Fact Sheet (http://calbudgetcenter.org
         San Francisco, 37.2%
         Sonoma, 37.3%                                                                             /wp-content/uploads/Fact-Sheet_Food-lnsecurity_March2018.pclf)
         Santa Clara, 39.7%
         Stanislaus, 39.8%
         Imperial, 40.8%
         Santa Cruz, 41.1 %
         Tulare, 41.2%
         Merced, 41.4%
         Sutter, 41.4%
         Napa, 41.7%
         Ventura, 41.8%
         Contra Costa, 41.9%
         Sacramento, 42.1 %
         Monterey, 42.4%
         San Diego, 42.6%
         San Bernardino, 42.7%
         Humboldt, 42.9%
         Los Angeles, 43.3%
         Shasta, 43.3%
         Kings, 43. 9%
         Butte, 44.8%
         Del Norte, 4S.3%
         Lassen, 45.3%
         Modoc, 4S.3%
         Plumas, 45.3%
         Sierra, 4S.3%
         Siskiyou, 45.3%
         Trinity, 4S.3%
         Alpine, 45.8%
         Amador, 4S.8%
         Calaveras, 45.8%
         Inyo, 45.8%
         Mariposa, 45.8%            28%                        58%                     \.
         Mono,45.8%
         Tuolumne, 45.8%
         Lake, 46.1%
         Riverside, 46.2%
         Madera, 46.3%                                               Statewide by Race and Ethnicity
         San Benito, 46.5%
         Santa Barbara, 46.8%                                                                                              California, 43.1%
         Colusa, 47.7%                                                 Pacific Islander, 25.1 %*
         Glenn, 47.7%
         Tehama, 47.7%                                                 Asian , 27.8%
         Solano, 49.0%
         San Joaquin, 50.0%                                            White, 37.5%
         Fresno, S0.2%
         Alameda. 50.5%                                                Black, 48.2%
         Yuba, 50.9%
                                                                       Latina, 48.4%
         Kern, 53.0%
         El Dorado, 58.3%                                              Native American, 48.8%


                                    Notes v
                                    Sources v

                                                                                                                                    Acknowledgments
                                                                                                                                    1L.&.1.-.11--1L •• -.I--.&.---.&.-- - - -




l of3                                                                                                                                                                   8/27/2018. 7:45 PM
The Women's Foundation of California I Well-Being index - The Wome ...                              http://womensfoundca.org/well-being.


         the WOMEN'S
         l·OU,DATION
         c.fCi\Lll:-ORNIA




         Well-Being Index
         The Women's Well-Being Index, created in partnership with the California Budget & Policy Center
         {hrrp:/lcalbudgctcenterorgl), 1s a first of-its-kind onl1ne resource provides data on women's health, safety,
         economic security, employment and earnings, and political empowerment for all of California's 58
         counties.




l of3                                                                                                                8/27/2018. 7:45 PN
                                                   COUNCILif-1Et:tlNG

Good Evening                                  I             'iJ /7'I If'<
                                                   [ ] Placed Before Meeting
                                                   [ ] Received at Meeting



City Council members,

As a member of the Palo Alto Cities for CEDAW Coalition, I
strongly urge you to follow the suggestions made by
Human Relations Commissioner Steven Lee. Our Coalition
is comprised of many groups and individuals from our
community who all agree in the importance of
incorporating the essential principles of the UN Convention
on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination Against
Women, into our local government.

This city has indeed already passed a strong resolution in
support of CEDA W, Resolution no. 8217, back in October
2002.

And on the first page it reads:

 //WHEREAS: municipalgovernments have an appropriate
and legitimate role in affirming the importance of
international law in our communities as universal norms
and to serve as guides for public policy/ , ,

Council members, please move this forward by:

(1) Authorizing a task force

(2) Giving that task force a year to do its work
(3) Provide that task force with access to data and
information, and

(4) Allow us 10 hours of staff time per month.

We've spent more than enough time as a community
talking about how vve support gender equality. We need
to begin right away, let us get the gender analysis
underway by Jan 'i, 2019.

We are now at a moment in which nationally and locally,
the public con.sCJer ce is again focused on all too common
instances of gender discrimination and gender inequality.
Palo Alto has a chance to make things right, and this CITY
COUNCIL has the capacity to leave a lasting legacy.

Thank you.


                               I


Sri~LL.y       KD ~AK
c \ t-t e.s for- CE.DAW Co o._ l\: h"o "'-
LA.. N A- tv\A cl peYv \ V\ s v l q_ Ch a...p i;ru--
                                        '   ~~~:!~1~!:
Herb Borock
P. 0. Box 632
Palo Alto, CA 94301                      . [ ] Received at Meeting

August 27, 2018

Palo Alto City Council
250 Hamilton Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94301


AUGUST 27, 2018, CITY COUNCIL :MEETING, ORAL COMMUNICATIONS
PROHIBIT NEW APPLICATIONS FOR PC ZONE DISTRICTS
RETAIN EXISTING PC ZONE DISTRICT REGULATIONS FOR:
     INSPECTIONS AND ENFORCE:MENT
     MINOR CHANGES TO DEVELOP:MENT PLAN AND SCHEDULE
     FAILURE TO :MEET A DEVELOP:MENT SCHEDULE
ADD LANGUAGE TO PC ZONE DISTRICT REGULATIONS FOR TERMINATION
ADD LANGUAGE TO CHAPTER 18.77 FOR ADEQUATE NOTICE OF PROPOSED
     MINOR CHANGES


Dear City Council:

I urge you to direct staff to place on your next agenda an
ordinance that would prohibit new applications for PC zone
districts, while retaining appropriate regulations for existing
PC zones and enacting new regulations for termination of PC zone
districts and adequate notice for allowed changes to existing
development plans and development schedule.

The adoption of Ordinance No. 5438 to add Palo Alto Municipal
Code (PAMC) Chapter 18.30(J) for an Affordable Housing Combining
                                                        I
District means that the PC zone district is no longer necessary
to provide affordable housing.

The adoption of Ordinance No. 5443 to add a new Combining
District, PAMC Chapter 18.30(K), for Workforce Housing in the
Public Facility (PF) zone district is just the latest example of
amending the PF zone district to allow a worthwhile use.

For example, in 1996 the Council adopted Ordinance No. 4330 to
add "Outpatient medical facilities with associated medical use"
as a Conditional Use in the PF zone district to enable the Palo
Alto Medical Foundation to develop and move to its current site
on El Camino Real.
If necessary, the uses or conditional uses in the PF zone
district can be amended to facilitate development and use of
another worthwhile use such as a history museum.

The Council has a history of adding regulations to the Zoning
Ordinance (PAMC Title 18) to benefit uses the Council believes
are worthwhile.

The PC zone district is not needed to achieve the same objective.

For example, PAMC Chapter 18.60, Alternative Development
Standards for Stanford Lands created three new overlay districts
ASl, AS2, and AS3 that were needed to implement the Mayfield
agreement.

Also, the South of Forest Avenue (SOFA) Coordinated Area Plan
Phase 1 and Phase 2 created an alternative multifamily zone
district (AMF), a zone district for detached houses on small
lots (DHS), two residential transition zone districts (RT35 and
RT50), and moderate density and high density mixed use
designations (MU-1 and MU-2).

PAMC Chapter 18.36, the HD Hospital District was enacted to
accommodate medical and educational uses including the Stanford
Hospital and Clinics, Lucille Packard Children's Hospital, the
uses at the Stanford Hoover Pavilion Site, and School of
Medicine buildings.

Specifically, I urge you to take the following action:

Direct staff to place a draft ordinance on your next agenda to:

  (a)   Prohibit new PC zone district approvals for all
        applications that have not received final Council approval
        as of the date the draft ordinance first appears on the
        Council agenda.

  (b)   Retain the regulations for existing PC zone districts for:

        (i)    minor changes to a development plan (portion of
               PAMC Section 18.38.070);

        (ii)   changes in the development schedule (PAMC Section
               18.38.130);
         (iii)   failure to meet the development schedule (PAMC
                 Section 18.38.140(b), but not including the last
                 subsection of 18.38.140(b) that shall be
                 eliminated; and


         (iv)    inspections (PAMC Section 18.38.160).


  (c)   Add a new section to the PC zone district regulations that
        provides for termination of the PC zone district if the
        use authorized by that PC zone district is discontinued
        for a period of twelve months.

  (d)   Add a new section to the PC zone district regulations (or
        elsewhere in PAMC Title 18) providing adequate notice of
        applications for, and decisions on minor changes; the
        right of any aggrieved party to appeal the Director of
        Planning and Community Environment's decision on a minor
        application; the prohibition of ministerial approvals,
        staff level approvals, and major approvals that must
        instead apply for a zone change to a zone district that is
        not a PC zone district.

Thank you for your consideration of these comments

Sincerely,

 ~
Herb Bo r oc k
                                                                          ~4:     </~-? I      1
                                                                          .t COUN.71:.L P.>.1~1NG
                                                                          :~ [ ] ~d Before Meeting
                             City Council Meeting August 27, 2018         \ f ...yl~ecci\'ed   ;1l   Meeting

RE: 429 University Avenue Proposed Development Update

BY: Michael Harbour, MD, MPH Lead Appellant for 429 University Ave

REQUEST: Request that City Council schedule a formal agenda item to discuss at a future City
Council Meeting that failure of the Applicant to adhere to the Council Motion

   1.    This council approved a Motion on February 6, 2017 that set into motion the future
        development of a parcel of land at the intersection of University Ave and Kipling Street
        in the downtown district.

   2. The Council chose Building Option #1 at the template design with numerous conditions
      that were passed as part of that Motion.

   3. The project was set to be designed and reviewed by the ARB and Planning Department.

   4. The most important conditions of the Motion were as follows:
        a.  Applicant to return to ARB for review and recommendations for landscaping
           review
        b. Applicant to return to ARB for review and recommendation to Director of
           Planning of building materials, colors, and craftsmanship related detailing
           associated with building
        c. Also recommended ARB consider recessed pedestrian entries as ARB has
           consistently sought to improve the pedestrian experience of this building, but
           there has been little refinement of the feature over the different iterations.

   5.   The Motion also stated that "it should be noted that all of the options in this report
        will be subject to more detailed review for code compliance at the building permit
        state, if/when a single design option has been advanced."

   6. The Motion directs Staff to return with the written findings of adoption. This has not
      occurred.

   7. The applicant's building permit expired after one year in February 2018. The applicant
      never returned to the ARB as directed. The staff renewed the permit without any
      notice to council or appellants.

   8. Applicant finally returned to ARB on August 16, 2018 where the submitted design was
      unanimously rejected as incomplete and not cohesive.
TIMELINE: 1693 Mariposa

2006: Permit pulled in October.

2007: Old house demolished in January;
excavation for habitable basement and the pouring
of concrete for the floor, walls and cap occurred
during the spring and summer.

2008: Work on the house stopped and construction of the garage began. Just
enough progress was made to keep the permit from expiring through June 2009.
Owner claimed he was working on the Maybell house and work on Mariposa would
go quickly as soon as Maybell was finished.

2009: Permit expired in December and not renewed. No activity during 2010, 2011
or 2012.

2013: Neighbors organized and appeared before the Council which resulted in
Ordinance 5227 (passed 0111312014) requiring that a renewal application be made
within 30 days of expiration and providing penalties for non-compliance.

2014: New permit issued in September. Again just enough work was done to have
an inspection every 6 months and keep the permit alive.

2016: Ordinance 5389 passed setting a 48-month time limit for issuance of final
inspection.

201 7: In the spring the walls went up and an inspection passed in June . Little was
done thereafter. The November inspection was failed, permit expired, and
confirmation letter sent from the City to the owner Nov. 27.

2018: On May 1 the next door neighbor contacted the Chief Building Inspector
about enforcement of the stalled construction ordinance. He responded
immediately and posted a Stop Work order. Council member Holman was
contacted and has spoken with City staff. As of tonight, 8 months after the
ordinance could have been implemented, no activity has occurred on the site and
no contact has been made with the neighbors as to any action taken by the City.


UNDERLYING CONCERN: 628 Maybell.

Construction of house begun PRIOR to demolition of 1693 Mariposa ( 2007) and
still not completed. The rumor is that the dome leaks and the owner does not know
how to remedy the construction fault. Mariposa has the same dome roof
construction. Our concern is that the fault will be repeated and Mariposa will never
be signed off either.
