            DOCUMENTS IN THIS PACKET INCLUDE:


                LETTERS FROM CITIZENS TO THE
                   MAYOR OR CITY COUNCIL


    RESPONSES FROM STAFF TO LETTERS FROM CITIZENS


        ITEMS FROM MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS


      ITEMS FROM OTHER COMMITTEES AND AGENCIES


ITEMS FROM CITY, COUNTY, STATE, AND REGIONAL AGENCIES




       Prepared for:           7/30/2018
       Document dates: 7/11/2018 – 7/18/2018

                                Set 1
 Note: Documents for every category may not have been received for packet
                      reproduction in a given week.




                                                                      701-32
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 7/16/2018 10:31 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com>
Sent:                         Friday, July 13, 2018 11:11 AM
To:                           Kniss, Liz (internal); wilpf.peninsula.paloalto@gmail.com; HRC;
                              stevendlee@alumni.duke.edu; stb_discussion@googlegroups.com;
                              paloaltofreepress@gmail.com; chuckjagoda1@gmail.com; stephanie@dslextreme.com;
                              Council, City; Keene, James; Bains, Paul; Rick Toker; roberta.ahlquist@sjsu.edu; Jonsen,
                              Robert; citycouncil@menlopark.org; council@redwoodcity.org;
                              mdiaz@redwoodcity.org; jrosen@da.sccgov.org
Subject:                      East Palo Alto may launch RV parking program | News | Palo Alto Online |Will Palo Alto
                              follow with a similar safe parking program?????




https://www.paloaltoonline.com/news/2018/07/12/east-palo-alto-eyes-rv-parking-program


East Palo Alto may launch RV parking
program
City Council could approve funding on July 17
Sue DremannUploaded: Thu, Jul 12, 2018, 4:23 pm

Menu




The parking lot at 1798 B ... (More)

2 comments. See comments.

The first program in Silicon Valley to house and support RV dwellers on government land
could start as soon as November, if approved by the East Palo Alto City Council on July 17.


                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 7/16/2018 10:31 AM
In a heartfelt discussion on July 3 about the need for communities to help the least fortunate,
the council voted unanimously to support the proposed RV Safe Parking Pilot Program,
which would allow up to 20 recreational vehicles and motor homes to temporarily park on
city-owned property.

The groundbreaking program would use the former Tanklage site at 1798 Bay Road for a
one-year pilot program that would allow people to park their RVs overnight while receiving
support services, with the goal of moving the people into transitional housing. East Palo Alto
nonprofit Project WeHope, which provides shelter and services to homeless persons, would
manage the program and lease the property. The site would have portable toilets, security
guards, meals at Project WeHope's gym, and laundry and shower services through WeHope's
Dignity on Wheels mobile van.

The program is estimated to cost about $300,000. Project WeHope would contribute one-
third of the funding, with the city contributing two-thirds through its general fund, primarily
drawing on monies generated by the East Palo Alto residential-business license tax.

City staff estimated capital costs of between $50,000-$100,000 for amenities such as
lighting and a hookup to water, which would be funded by the city.

At least 37 RVs, some housing families, are parking along Bay Road and Tara Street on the
city's southeastern edge. Pastor Paul Bains, head of Project WeHope, said this number,
which his team counted during outreach, did not include RVs in driveways and on private
land, so the number of RVs that house people could be much higher.

The parking program would prioritize East Palo Alto families, the elderly, disabled persons
and veterans, staff said. Persons in the program would have an entry pass to the lot, which a
guard would check. Project WeHope and East Palo Alto Police have been working to
identify which RV dwellers are East Palo Alto residents through driver's licenses and vehicle
registrations. The process has been somewhat complicated since some East Palo Alto
residents have been renting out or loaning their RVs to homeless people, Bains said.

Families in the Belle Haven neighborhood of Menlo Park, many of whose children are
enrolled in the Ravenswood City School District, would be accommodated in the program
after East Palo Alto residents, if there are spaces.

Roots of the program

East Palo Alto's new program was formulated after some RV dwellers living on the 1100
block of Weeks Street were evicted last November just before a large winter storm. The city
                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 7/16/2018 10:31 AM
had to clean the site of hazardous materials, including 6,000 gallons of raw sewage that had
been illegally discharged into the storm drain by a few of the RV dwellers. The effluence
overflowed onto the street, which was also strewn with personal belongings and trash.

Acknowledging that the situation was getting out of hand and unsustainable, the city held
multiple council and public meetings and instructed staff to work out details of what the
parking program could look like.

To qualify, the RVs must be registered, operational and have insurance. Applicants must
sign a waiver of occupancy, acknowledging that permission to park at the site is not a
tenancy right. They can only park overnight at the site for up to 90 days.

During the daytime, they must park their RVs on the street or drive them to their places of
work. Applicants must agree to participate in a case-management program. They must be
clean and sober, or if they are addicted, they must be in a recovery program. No drugs or
alcohol would be allowed on the site.

To address the sewage and garbage issue, the RVs must have the ability to dispose of
sewage in a certified dumping station. The program would provide RV owners with
vouchers for the sewage dumping and solid waste at a station in Redwood City. The
nonprofit Samaritan House would help people get their RVs running.

Nonprofits Life Moves and Abode Services would help the RV dwellers find and move into
transitional housing. For RV dwellers who require more than the 90 days to do that, their
stays at the property could be extended on a case-by-case basis, Bains said. Project WeHope
would be required to file quarterly assessment and status reports regarding the program's
progress and outcomes.

City staff members did not recommend establishing a permanent RV park, although they did
study the costs. One-time capital costs for a full-time RV park would be at least $750,000 to
$1 million. Operating costs would exceed $250,000 annually, according to the staff report.

There are legal considerations to launching the pilot program. The city acquired the
Tanklage site from the East Palo Alto Redevelopment Agency after the state dissolved such
agencies. The property transfer added a deed restriction as a governmental-use property.
City ordinance defines such uses as a public purpose: a park, police or fire station, library,
local agency administration building or public parking, as examples.



                                                     3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 7/16/2018 10:31 AM
Staff has determined the use for a temporary RV parking program complies with the deed
restriction and municipal definition. State government code also grants cities the power to
declare a shelter crisis, which is deemed to be a local emergency.

"A shelter crisis may be declared when a city finds that a significant number of persons
within the jurisdiction are without the ability to obtain shelter and that the situation has
resulted in a threat to the health and safety of those persons," staff wrote. Declaring a shelter
crisis, a city is authorized to take necessary action, including using public facilities to
address the crisis.

Program faces opposition

Some East Palo Alto residents, while sympathetic, are opposed to the program's location at
Bay and Clarke roads. Fifty nearby residents signed a June 11 petition and others spoke at a
June 14 community meeting, expressing concerns about congested street parking, an influx
of additional RV dwellers, a possible lack of police department oversight and environmental
concerns, among others.

Residents at the July 3 council meeting offered a mix of support. Mark Dinan, whose yard
backed up to the Weeks Street RV encampment, said the dwellers brought human waste,
drugs, trash and prostitution.

Louella Parker, said she hasn't been able to sell her home because of the RVs in the
neighborhood.

"It feels like a temporary thing," she said of the program, "But what happens after it?"

Elizabeth Pulido said her neighborhood at Fordham Street and Bay Road is already
inundated with drug dealers, crime and violence. The city should instead use the funding to
address these problems.

"Why does the city want to bring another burden to this community?" she said.

But Mike Francois said he supports the project, which could be emulated by other cities to
help solve the broader regional issue of people living in RVs.

"What I like about this is you're going to put families first," he said.

Councilman Larry Moody, who has worked with ministries focused on homelessness, said
90 days might not be long enough for some people to get into housing.

                                                     4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 7/16/2018 10:31 AM
"I would suggest we look at a six-month program that really identifies the 20 families we
will work with over a long period of time," he said.

"It is also an opportunity for local churches to engage in true ministry," he added, where
they could offer parking lots and perhaps breakfasts.

The importance of using in-city service providers, such as El Concilio for case management,
can't be understated, he said.

"It holds the residents of the RV community to a standard" of accountability to their
community, he said.

Mayor Ruben Abrica also asked the faith community to step up.

"I am definitely not a religious person, but I want to go ahead and say this. From what I
know, particularly of the Christian tradition, if Jesus Christ showed up today in the same
way that he lived, you know, we might be looking down on him and not really helping him
and the people around him, which included all kinds of people who were having a lot of
trouble. That's my appeal to the religious community: To help us solve these problems that
do deeper than just specific situations."

Abrica said that he hopes that other cities will follow suit. He said he will approach Menlo
Park in particular to help with a program for Belle Haven RV residents.

"This is a crisis that's affecting people at the very ground level: human beings. This is not to
say that we have the solution. But we are the kind of city that has historically tried to address
human needs directly and not be afraid and to try things out. And if they don't work, then we
can modify them," Abrica said.

In fact, East Palo Alto is not alone in considering safe-parking programs for RV dwellers,
but it's the only one to do so with public property. In Santa Clara County, San Jose and
Mountain View are working on pilot safe-parking programs. Both would fund sites at faith-
based organizations.

Santa Clara County approved on June 5 an agreement with Move Mountain View for
parking and supportive services for up to $287,525 and with Amigos de Guadalupe in San
Jose for up to $505,000 for a program running from June 5, 2018, through June 30, 2020.

Abrica said he has spent much time visiting with the people who live in RVs, and he
cautioned against knee-jerk reactions against them.
                                                     5
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 7/16/2018 10:31 AM
"Just like any other community on this planet -- somebody (here) said it -- most people are
doing the best they can. They're not creating problems. There are a few -- and I would say
they exist in every community, whether it's a housing community, an ethnic community, a
religious community -- there are people who are doing harm and are not doing right, and I
do agree that we need to address that and deal with that," he said.

"But we should not paint all people with the same brush and then blame them for problems
that run deeper in our society," he said.

To keep RVs from other cities from driving over to fill the gaps left after the existing
vehicles leave the streets, city staff has recommended that an overnight parking ordinance,
enforcement of existing 72-hour parking and vehicle-operations codes should run in tandem
with the pilot parking program.

Council members on July 3 agreed, warning that East Palo Alto's program should not be
used to solve other cities' problems. They said there would be a future discussion regarding a
potential overnight ban for all oversized vehicles in the city. The Public Works and
Transportation Committee is expected to hold public hearings on an ordinance in late July or
August.

---

Follow the Palo Alto Weekly/Palo Alto Online on Twitter @PaloAltoWeekly and Facebook
for breaking news, local events, photos, videos and more.

Comments




Sent from my iPhone




                                                     6
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 7/17/2018 5:20 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Arlene Goetze <photowrite67@yahoo.com>
Sent:                         Tuesday, July 17, 2018 12:09 PM
To:                           press_harris@harris.senate.gov; Cindy Chavez
Subject:                      HHS violates Safer Vaccines; Autism up 1,000-fold


Forwarded by Arlene Goetze, No Toxins for Children, photowrite67@yahoo.com

* Health & Human Services violates Safer Vaccine Mandate
* HHS has never submitted the required biennial report on improvements
* 1000-fold increase in autism since 1930s and a 25-fold increase over the past
several decades should be front-page news…
* Rapid increase since the 1990s, accelerated since 2006

2 Articles-------
 HHS is in Violation of the "Mandate for Safer Childhood Vaccines" as Stipulated in the
Vaccine Injury Compensation Act
By World Mercury Project Team, Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., Atty. July 10, 2018
   In 1986, when Congress granted economic immunity to pharmaceutical companies for
vaccine injury, they recognized it eviscerated the economic incentive for pharmaceutical
companies to create safe vaccines or make existing ones safer. Congress therefore placed
the responsibility and burden for vaccine safety directly on the shoulders and in the
hands of the Secretary of HHS.
   This section is literally entitled “Mandate for safer childhood vaccines” and
requires the HHS Secretary to submit a report to Congress every two years detailing
what improvements in vaccine safety were made in the preceding two years.
   In August, 2017 Informed Consent Action Network (ICAN) submitted a Freedom of
Information Act (FOIA) requesting any and all of those reports transmitted to Congress.
HHS was unresponsive to the request, therefore on April 12, 2018, Robert F. Kennedy, Jr.
and Aaron Siri (Co-Counsel for ICAN) were forced to file a complaint in US District Court,
ordering HHS to comply. Once ordered to provide the reports it came to light that,
amazingly, HHS has never, not even once, submitted the required biennial report.
   This speaks volumes about the disregard for vaccine safety at HHS and heightens the
concerns that the agency doesn’t have a clue as to the actual safety profile of the now 29
doses, and growing, of vaccines given by one year of age.
   Recently, Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. was interviewed by Del Bigtree, one of the preeminent
voices of the vaccine risk awareness movement and founder of ICAN about the implications
of this lack of oversight and what the future holds.
“This is the first of a barrage of legal approaches that we devised. The legal strategy that we
(World Mercury Project) believe will ultimately bring support to the parents, protect these
children and bring justice to the families that have been injured.” — RFK. Jr.

JULY 10, 2018
1,000 fold Increase in Autism since the 1930s
By the World Mercury Project Team
                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 7/17/2018 5:20 PM
   At all levels of society, autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) are exacting a heavy toll. On a
purely economic level, the demand for special services and care for an escalating number of
autistic children (and, increasingly, adults) is stretching families, schools and health care
systems to the breaking point.
   In 2014, a comprehensive analysis of ASD costs published in JAMA Pediatrics placed
autism’s annual financial impact in the U.S. at $236-$262 billion—roughly seven times
more than the $35 billion estimated in 2007.
…the study shows a consistent and strong upward trend and a rate of increase that
has accelerated over time and particularly since the late 1980s.
  Some researchers, improbably and disingenuously, still dispute whether the increase in
autism prevalence is “real.” However, a new study in the Journal of Autism and
Developmental Disorders carefully strives to lay any lingering doubts about the ASD
epidemic’s alarming momentum to rest. In fact, using the best data currently
available, the study shows a consistent and strong upward trend and a rate of
increase that has accelerated over time and particularly since the late 1980s.

California as the bellwether state
   To zero in on autism prevalence over a period of decades, the authors first assembled
data from the California Department of Developmental Services (CDDS), which, in the
researchers’ estimation, represents “the most reliable long-term record of autism prevalence
trends in the United States”—especially for individuals with significant functional
disabilities at the more severe end of the autism spectrum. (CDDS does not serve those
with less disabling ASD manifestations such as Asperger’s). Analysis of 13 years’ worth of
CDDS reports (going back to birth year 1931) uncovered the following time trends:
   * A gradual “creeping upward” of autism prevalence from “near-zero levels” since
around 1940
   * A more rapid rise beginning in 1980
   * An even more pronounced “change point” between 1988 and 1990
   * A sustained period of rapid increase in the 1990s, followed by a brief tapering off
in the early 2000s
   * Another accelerated rate of increase as of 2006 or 2007
To increase the trustworthiness of their findings, the authors used two different approaches
to analyze the California data (abbreviated as the “tracking” and “snapshot”
approaches). The figure below shows that the two independent methods produced largely
consistent results, with both highlighting a steep increase over time. (The red triangles
show “tracking” data for eight-year-olds at different time points beginning in 1997; the blue
squares depict a “snapshot,” with the ages of various birth cohorts as of 2017 labeled at
points along the blue curve.)
   The authors characterize the 2017 “snapshot” results as particularly dramatic,
“especially when viewed in the context of the full span of data extending back to birth year
1931.”
Quantifying the extraordinary increase, they state:
> “Across birth cohorts…CDDS autism prevalence has increased by a factor of
25 from birth years 1970–2012 and by a factor of 1,000 from birth years 1931–
2012”—representing an “all-time high” [emphasis added].
…each state individually shows a statistically significant [and consistent] increasing
trend in ASD.

State-to-state variation
                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 7/17/2018 5:20 PM
   The study also examined autism trends in states beyond California, using datasets that
include a larger share of milder ASDs. For this objective, the researchers compiled data
from two federal agencies that have collected autism information on an ongoing basis for
many years: the Department of Education’s Individuals with Disabilities Education
Act (IDEA) database and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s (CDC’s) Autism
and Developmental Disabilities Monitoring Network (ADDM). IDEA collects annual special
education enrollment counts for all school children diagnosed with autism (among other
disability categories), while ADDM uses health and/or education records to gather ASD
prevalence information (solely for eight-year-olds) every two years in selected states and
counties.
   Comparing “tracking” trends in 16 states for eight-year-olds born in the early 2000s, the
researchers found that autism prevalence varied by state by a factor of roughly two to four.
Thus, for IDEA, prevalence ranged from 0.62% (Colorado) to 1.53% (Pennsylvania), while for
ADDM (as of 2012) the range went from 0.57% in Alabama to a high of 2.46% in New
Jersey.
   The authors hasten to clarify that New Jersey’s numbers actually are far more likely to
be accurate, due to the greater availability of comprehensive records in New Jersey; under-
ascertainment of ASD by age eight in Alabama; and sampling differences within ADDM
(e.g., urban versus rural) and between ADDM and IDEA (e.g., selected counties versus
statewide). Independent of these methodological variations, “each state individually shows a
statistically significant [and consistent] increasing trend in ASD.”
   Ultimately, a 1000-fold increase in autism prevalence since the 1930s and a 25-fold
increase over the past several decades should be front-page news…

Behind the numbers
   Most media stories about autism rely on the CDC’s ADDM figures as the authoritative
source of information about prevalence. However, the most recent ADDM report, which
indicates that ASD prevalence has gone from one in 68 eight-year-olds born in 2004
(1.46%) to one in 59 eight-year-olds born in 2006 (1.68%), describe trends for children who
are now 12 years old. This begs the question of what is happening to children who are
currently far younger, given that the median age of autism diagnosis is around four years of
age.    Moreover, blanket prevalence statements mask important subgroup differences—
such as the disproportionate impact of autism on boys (2.66%) and the seemingly higher
prevalence in states such as New Jersey (2.93% as of 2014). Considering state-to-state
variations in case ascertainment and taking into account the many inconsistencies and
continual changes in the ADDM sampling methodology, the authors advise caution “when
citing a single number…as the overall rate of autism.”
   The authors concede the possibility that a small proportion—perhaps 13%—of the
documented increase in autism prevalence (as per the CDDS data) may be due to other
factors such as immigration or expanded diagnosis. Overall, however, their study decisively
indicates that the bulk of the increase (at least 87%) “is due to a true rise in the condition.”
   The detection of specific “change points” in the accelerating autism timeline—around
1980, 1990 and 2006—lends further credence to this conclusion, given that these moments
approximately coincide with the periodic expansion of the pediatric vaccine schedule, which
resulted in children’s increased exposure to neurotoxic thimerosal in the early 1990s and
neurotoxic aluminum in the mid-2000s.
   Ultimately, a 1000-fold increase in autism prevalence since the 1930s and a 25-
fold increase over the past several decades should be front-page news—and

                                                     3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 7/17/2018 5:20 PM
prevention of any further rise in autism prevalence should be an urgent national
priority.

Sign up for free news and updates from Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. and the World
Mercury Project. Your donation will help to support us in our efforts.




                                                     4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 7/18/2018 12:08 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         JIM POPPY <jamespoppy@comcast.net>
Sent:                         Wednesday, July 18, 2018 11:38 AM
To:                           Council, City
Subject:                      Mayor Kniss, why are you hosting pizza parties for Castilleja at City Hall?



One of many items that will be cited when we call upon you to recuse yourself from any decisions
regarding the proposed Castilleja expansion.



Jim Poppy

135 Melville Ave.




                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 7/16/2018 10:32 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Gertrude Reagan <turgor8632@gmail.com>
Sent:                             Friday, July 13, 2018 10:45 PM
To:                               Council, City
Subject:                          Motor homes


Lately, signs have been posted along El Camino forbidding motor home parking overnight.

If we had just had an earthquake, we would be damn glad for motor homes! We would provide services like
portapotties, and some supervision to keep the group livable for everyone.

I hear that 70% of people in Tracy commute to the Palo Alto area. My nurse commutes from Brentwood. That’s 60‐80
miles in heavy traffic! Motor homes are a perfectly reasonable solution for workers in our community.

Our housing issues are longstanding. Just because they were not caused by a sudden calamity, we don’t recognize it for
what it is: a crisis.

Have a heart!

Gertrude Reagan
54‐year resident
967 Moreno Ave.

650‐856‐9593




                                                           1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 7/16/2018 5:09 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Neilson Buchanan <cnsbuchanan@yahoo.com>
Sent:                           Monday, July 16, 2018 4:16 PM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        News Impacting Quality of Life on the Peninsula



Our July 15 Newsletter commented on Palo Alto's initiative and we felt it was relevant to other communities on
the Peninsula. We are forwarding this newsletter for your information.

You are not subscribed to the newsletter. However, you are welcome to self-subscribe for future editions.

Neilson Buchanan
John Guislin
Editors
SF Peninsula Residents Association Newsletter
Palo Alto, CA 94301

650 537-9611 cell
cnsbuchanan@yahoo.com




                                                         1
  City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 7/16/2018 5:09 PM




              THIS WEEK ON THE SAN FRANCISCO PENINSULA
                               News Impacting Your Quality of Life
                                              July 15, 2018

                                              View as Webpage

To our readers:


              THANK YOU!

We are growing thanks to your support.

This newsletter is edited by local, volunteer residents. It is free. We focus on
your local newspapers.

Please forward this edition and urge your friends and neighbors to subscribe.

                                            To Subscribe Click Here




                                                       2
   City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 7/16/2018 5:09 PM




                                                                        Hubs or hubris?

                                                                        Facebook has created three Bay Area work hubs that
                                                                        each total at least one million square feet, following
                                                                        big leases with two legendary developers that will
                                                                        widen its Silicon Valley footprint.
                                                                        The tech titan could employ as many as 19,000 in
                                                                        the expansion sites, located in Fremont,
                                                                        Sunnyvale and Menlo Park.
                                                                        SJMercuryNews

                                                                       Ed. Comment: This article suggests 6.3 workers
                                                                       per 1000 sq ft. If this density should persist all over
                                                                       the Peninsula, then what about traffic and housing
                                                                       costs? We are at a loss for words as tech titans
                                                                       expand and expand with no end in sight. If tech
titans’ resources and power are unlimited, then do any other limits exist?

Which city council is thinking about housing and transportation for 3-5 new jobs created by each new tech worker? Ain’t
life grand! Let ‘em eat cake?

A story worth retelling

After Facebook moved into east Menlo Park in 2011, long-term
residents started moving out, said Sandra Zamora, a resident who
is facing displacement after her rent jumped by $800 a month.

Zamora’s home, along with three other small complexes in the
Belle Haven neighborhood, were bought by Redwood
Landing/Menlo Gate LLC, which is raising her rent from $1,100 to
$1,900.

It’s a hard increase to swallow for the 29-year-old preschool
teacher who works at a restaurant on the weekends and goes to school at San Francisco State.
PADailyPost

Ed. Comment: We featured this story from the San Jose Mercury last week and it is worth repeating again and
again. Which newspaper can put the Zamora story into context when San Mateo County is reported as having the lowest
unemployment and the highest home costs?




                                                               3
  City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 7/16/2018 5:09 PM



                                             Ballot box battle blossoming

                                             "The battle over public land is heating up in Los Altos, where City
                                             Council has moved ahead with a ballot measure to compete side-by-
                                             side with a citizens' initiative on the November ballot.

                                             Both would prevent the sale of city-owned land or re-designation of a
                                             park or open space without voter approval, but the city measure would
                                             only require a four-fifths council vote to lease city land. The citizens'
                                             initiative would require a vote of residents to enter a lease."
                                             PADailyPost

                                             Ed. Comment: Los Altos, Palo Alto and San Mateo may have
                                             something in common; their city councils may decide to oppose their
                                             citizens’ initiatives. Los Altos Council put it into perspective when one
                                             councilperson suggested citizens should simply trust their elected
                                             council to do the right thing. Now we see dueling initiatives trending on
                                             the Peninsula.



For our readers with time and curiosity, here are some QuickLinks

Should Bay Area seek a Superhero to manage its success?
AlmanacNews

Santa Clara County reports significant progress in homeless housing.
PaloAltoOnline

Can three cities confront mutual traffic snarls?
AlmanacNews

Six express buses on horizon.
SMDailyJournal




Success of SFPRA newsletter success depends upon its readers. Please feel free to forward the newletter to
 your friends and neighbors. Ask them to subscribe at no cost by clicking the subscribe button above or by
                                    emailing cnsbuchanan@gmail.com.

Editors Neilson Buchanan and John Guislin are unpaid, private citizens on the SF Peninsula and have no ties
to developers or government organizations.

                                                   Our Web Site




                                                        4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 7/16/2018 10:31 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           m m <mmPaLoAlTo@hotmail.com>
Sent:                           Friday, July 13, 2018 3:54 PM
To:                             Council, City; City Mgr
Subject:                        Parking Campers/RV's on El Camino




all,

I am writing to you about the RV/Campers parking along El Camino. Many of these vehicles are parking on the
sidewalk and have their stairs blocking the sidewalk. How does someone in a wheelchair even get by
them. The amount of trash piling up, needles (yes I see them), generators running and overall it is an
eyesore. The street sweeper never gets to clean the gutters so when it rains all the trash just goes down the
storm drain. When large vehicles drive in the lane nearest to the RV's they have to drive partially in the lane
to the their left which is dangerous. Two people can't even pass each other on the sidewalk where they are
parked because some are parked ON the sidewalk.


Why are they allowed to park there, can something be done about it, are you doing anything to stop this
? Other cities, I believe Mountain View, limited the size of the vehicle which lessons the impact. We should
not allow ANY overnight camping/parking there. Please help to stop this epidemic so that hard working
residents, who pay taxes, aren't forced to deal with the issues outline above.

Look what happened to San Francisco, they let this type of thing get so far out of hand that their streets are
now toxic dump sites.

MM




                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 7/17/2018 7:42 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                             chuck jagoda <chuckjagoda1@gmail.com>
Sent:                             Tuesday, July 17, 2018 1:35 AM
To:                               WILPF Peninsula Palo Alto; M. Gallagher; Greg Schmid (external); Gregorio, Rose;
                                  greg@tanaka.org; Council, City; jihirschpa@earthlink.net; dprice@padailypost.com
Cc:                               Roberta Ahlquist; Ruth Chippendale; Stephanie Munoz
Subject:                          Re: A Letter to Our Palo Alto Neighbors



Dear PASZ Folks,

I support you and the opinions and values described herein.

You just need to emphasize starting at the bottom of the economic ladder so as to work as quickly on
equalizing the terribly disparate and destructive distance between those in the top one percent and
the rest of us.

Start with those who've suffered the most for the longest.

Start with those who have the fewest resources of power and wealth.

Does anyone seriously think the wealthy are in the most immediate need of help?

Chuck Jagoda


           Virus-free. www.avast.com


On Mon, Jul 16, 2018 at 6:54 PM, WILPF Peninsula Palo Alto <wilpf.peninsula.paloalto@gmail.com> wrote:
 I'm sure you've all seen this. I'll forward to the branch, and I hope you're all able to be at the EPA meeting
 tomorrow night. I can't go because I have an early a.m. flight Wed from SFO, but I'll be there in spirit. I've
 sent out the message about the meeting, however, to our full roster and to the names we have on the housing
 mailing list (which I sent to Roberta and Chuck to make more comprehensive than it is, and to correct those
 entries that are incorrect). Ruth and Stephanie, I've attached the list for you to review too, so that we have a
 better housing mailing list. Roberta/Chuck - someone needs to call Stephanie and Ruth to let them know about
 email msg. since George doesn't always print them out for Ruth, and Stephanie's email is unreliable.

 Judy
 ---------- Forwarded message ----------
 From: Palo Altans for Sensible Zoning <webmaster@sensiblezoning.org>
 Date: Sun, Jul 15, 2018 at 10:34 PM
 Subject: A Letter to Our Palo Alto Neighbors
 To: Judy Adams <wilpf.peninsula.paloalto@gmail.com>



                                   Display problems? Open this email in your web browser.


                                                            1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 7/17/2018 7:42 AM




                   A Letter to Our Palo Alto Neighbors

        Residents’ Reduced Office/R&D Development Cap Initiative
                         Qualifies for the November 6th Ballot

                                                                                              Greg Schmid
                                                                                                 Joe Hirsch
                                                                                            Mary Gallagher

                                                                                               July 3, 2018

   Dear Palo Alto Neighbor,

   Traffic and congestion just keep getting worse and worse. We feel it. We know you do, too, as
   the city’s recent annual Citizen Survey reports that two-thirds of residents cited these two issues
   as major problems, a percentage of residents that has been growing in recent years.

   So, on April 20th, and after considerable research, discussion, and legal advice, the three of us
   filed a formal notice of intent with the city clerk to circulate an initiative petition: The Palo Alto
   Reduced Office/R&D Development Cap Initiative. If enacted, it will amend Palo Alto’s 2030
   Comprehensive Plan and Municipal Code by reducing the recently adopted office and R&D
   development cap by 50% from an excessive 1.7 million square feet to 850,000 square feet, so
   as to maintain our long-term, historic growth rate and not increase it.

   In under five weeks, resident volunteers fanned out across the city with petition packets in hand.
   They collected more than 3,200 signatures that were submitted to the city clerk. After the


                                                      2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 7/17/2018 7:42 AM

   County Registrar of Voters confirmed that our effort exceeded the required number of valid
   signatures, the initiative petition was certified by the city clerk and thus qualifies for a simple
   “For” or “Against” vote on the ballot in the upcoming November 6th election.

   For those of you who contributed to this remarkable effort with your interest, support, and
   signature, we are ever so grateful and even more confident that the Reduced Development Cap
   Initiative is sound, much needed, eminently reasonable, and has widespread public support.

   The Initiative has passed a key milestone, however we are taking nothing for granted. Events
   since the certification and discussed below have confirmed why we cannot, and will not, rest
   until the Initiative becomes law.

   First a brief review of why the office/R&D cap is so important:

   To prevent the city from digging us into an even deeper hole.

   Palo Alto has more than three jobs for every employed resident. Among cities of 50,000 or
   more, we have the highest commuter ratio in the state and the fourth highest in the nation! That
   imbalance has been steadily rising since 1990, and there is nothing to indicate that it will decline
   in the future. For example, separate from our Initiative cap, which will be applicable citywide, the
   completion of Stanford’s approved projects at the Medical Center, and those that will be allowed
   under its current General Use Permit proposal under review by the County for the next phase of
   growth on the academic campus, will bring thousands of new workers and students to town.

   Mitigation will be difficult. Major thoroughfares and intersections are already jammed. Caltrain is
   running at capacity. Future electrification will enable additional trains to be run, however those
   additional trains will be at the expense of greater cross-town wait times at our four unseparated
   grade crossings with its impacts falling heavily on residents.

   The problems do not stop there. The growth of office/R&D space also impacts parking and the
   cost and availability of land, which adversely affects the ability to provide affordable housing.

   Office/R&D space growth impacts our innovative, hi-tech culture as well. A vehicle-choked city
   limits mobility, easy dissemination of ideas and workers across small and growing startups,
   replacing startups with larger companies, long-distance commutes, and a different way of
   working.




                                                     3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 7/17/2018 7:42 AM

   A reasonable cap on the growth of office/R&D space is the best thing we can do at this time to
   begin to deal with these impacts.

   Potential Roadblocks

   As reasonable and as needed as our Initiative is, commercial real estate interests (and people
   aligned with them) will try to defeat it, or water it down.

   Around 1 a.m. on the night of June 11th, the qualified Initiative petition came before the city
   council. By a 5-to-4 vote, the council approved a motion by Greg Scharff to direct Mayor Liz
   Kniss to create a two or three person council member ad hoc committee to develop a possible
   ballot measure to amend our Initiative and to direct staff to hire a consultant to conduct an
   economic and fiscal impact analysis and “to consider input from Stanford University, non-profits,
   and the business community” – but no input from residents.

   In its editorial the following week, the Palo Alto Weekly criticized the Council’s actions: “it was
   an obvious politically motivated effort, at taxpayer's expense, to use a consultant to develop
   the case against the initiative that could then be used to defeat it or win approval for an
   alternative measure....and even with a recently completed environmental impact report for the
   just-updated Comprehensive Plan that addressed most of the issues Scharff wants
   studied…the council approved the hiring of a consultant and the delay — until late July or early
   August — of council action on the citizens' initiative and a possible competing measure.” (Bold-
   faced emphasis is ours.)

   Neighbors, we need your help now and throughout the campaign to maintain the momentum
   and increase our outreach of this very important effort. Big money and, possibly, obfuscation will
   be on the other side. We have a worthy cause! If all of us are to be collectively successful we
   need an educated and engaged citizenry, feet on the street, and person to person contact. Also,
   we need your financial support to cover campaign expenses to ensure success of the Initiative
   in November.

   Visit our website at http://sensiblezoning.org to volunteer or donate in support of the Reduced
   Cap Initiative. Please feel free to contact one of us via email to discuss how you can best help.
   Thank you.

   Greg Schmid
   Palo Verde


                                                     4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 7/17/2018 7:42 AM

   gregschmid@sbcglobal.net

   Joe Hirsch
   Green Acres
   jihirschpa@earthlink.net

   Mary Gallagher
   Professorville
   marygallagher88@gmail.com

                      Paid for by Palo Altans for Sensible Zoning, FPPC #1359196




                                      Unsubscribe | Manage your subscription
                                          Palo Altans for Sensible Zoning
                                             http://sensiblezoning.org




--
Chuck




                                                       5
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 7/16/2018 10:29 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                       Keene, James
Sent:                                       Thursday, July 12, 2018 5:03 PM
To:                                         Richard Placone; Council, City
Subject:                                    Re: Ada's Cafe/Mitchel Park Library


Thanks Dick. I am working with Ada’s. we all agree, they are a key service at Mitchell and a non profit with a great
mission




James Keene | City Manager
250 Hamilton Avenue | Palo Alto, CA 94301
E: james.keene@cityofpaloalto.org

Sent from my Macbook

Please think of the environment before printing this email – Thank you




From: Richard Placone <rcplacone@sbcglobal.net>
Reply‐To: Richard Placone <rcplacone@sbcglobal.net>
Date: Thursday, July 12, 2018 at 11:30 AM
To: "Council, City" <city.council@cityofpaloalto.org>, James Keene <James.Keene@CityofPaloAlto.org>
Subject: Ada's Cafe/Mitchel Park Library

Council Members/ Mr. Keene

I trust you are all aware of the current plea by the operators of ADA's Cafe at the Mitchel Park Library, for
community donations. It appears that this cafe, which employees mostly handicapped individuals and high
schoolers, is having a hard time making ends meet. For details see the current Palo Alto Weekly Online.

As a user of this library, I frequently stop by the cafe for a snack and find this a valuable service. Here is a
suggested solution: Make the facility RENT FREE. This should go far in helping the cafe make ends meet. As
this is a direct service to the users of the city's library and nearby park, I can think of no reason the the city
cannot do this. I would be very surprised if the majority of residents wouldn't go along with this suggestion.

Thank you.

Richard Placone
Chimalus Drive
Barron Park/Palo Alto




                                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 7/16/2018 10:29 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                             chuck jagoda <chuckjagoda1@gmail.com>
Sent:                             Friday, July 13, 2018 2:08 AM
To:                               Aram James
Cc:                               WILPF Peninsula Palo Alto; Kniss, Liz (internal); Stop the Ban Google Discussion Group;
                                  stevendlee@alumni.duke.edu; HRC; Palo Alto Free Press; Keene, James; Council, City;
                                  citycouncil@menlopark.org; jrosen@da.sccgov.org; Roberta Ahlquist; Jonsen, Robert
Subject:                          Re: County makes 'significant' progress in homeless housing | News | Palo Alto Online |
                                  But see comments on the City of Palo Alto’s beyond dismal performance— in
                                  providing housing for low or very low income persons ........



I note today (July 12, 2018)'s headline in the POST that the landlord effort to head off the the rent
control that Los Altos passed two years ago failed. It couldn't get enough signatures. Almost like not
enough people supported it. And supported renters' rights. Sometimes the wealth of landlords gets
cut down a little to make way for paying for housing help for those who need it.

There is housing hope on the horizon.

The people are speaking. We're getting some traction! Build to rehouse those who've been forced out
of housing.


Build to keep the middle class from falling off the edge into homelessness. Build to stop the
skyrocketing rents.

Build to house your workers, children, poor, service workers, middle class workers.

Chuck Jagoda



           Virus-free. www.avast.com


On Wed, Jul 11, 2018 at 12:17 PM, Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com> wrote:

 https://www.paloaltoonline.com/news/2018/07/11/county-makes-significant-progress-in-homeless-housing


 County makes 'significant' progress in
 homeless housing
 New report claims more than one-third of goal has been
 realized or is in progress
                                                           1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 7/16/2018 10:29 AM
Sue DremannUploaded: Wed, Jul 11, 2018, 8:50 am

Menu




The cost of housing has f ... (More)

Santa Clara County has made considerable strides toward reaching its goal of creating
6,000 units of new, affordable housing for homeless individuals and families, according to a
report released Tuesday.

Since January 2015, the county added 1,449 new housing units for homeless persons. It has
another 840 in the pipeline, according to the Office of Supportive Housing's Ending
Homelessness: The State of the Supportive Housing System in Santa Clara County 2017
report. The study is the first in a series of 10 annual reports regarding homelessness and
focuses on supportive housing, the $950 million 2016 Measure A affordable-housing bond
and progress toward the county's 2015-2020 Community Plan to End Homelessness.

In 2017, the county had an estimated 7,394 recorded homeless persons. Of those, 74 percent
were unsheltered -- meaning they had no protection from the elements. But the problem is
much greater. A 2015 county study, Home Not Found, identified 46,225 residents in the
county who experienced homelessness at some point in 2012 alone and received some form
of county medical, behavioral health or other social service. Serving these individuals has
been costly. The county spends $520 million annually in support services for homeless
persons, according to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development's 2017
Annual Homeless Assessment Report.

The rental market and lack of income are the primary barriers to regaining housing,
according to the county's 2017 Homeless Census and Survey. Sixty-two percent said they
can't afford rent, 56 percent had no job or income and 23 percent had no money for moving
costs. Job loss and eviction were among the leading causes of homelessness. Evictions are

                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 7/16/2018 10:29 AM
the primary cause, rising by 11 percentage points from 2011 to 2017, according to the
survey.

The cost of housing has far outstripped wages in the county -- particularly for extremely
low- and low-income renters. According to the county report issued Tuesday, an affordable
unit for an extremely low-income renter (in which the household pays no more than 30
percent of their income for housing costs) would be $628 for an individual, $716 for a two-
person household and $885 for a four-person household.

The county 2017 fair market rent averages $1,773 monthly for a one-bedroom apartment
and $2,200 for a two-bedroom apartment, however. Housing costs in Palo Alto are far
worse. The average rent for a one-bedroom apartment is $2,620 and a two-bedroom unit is
$3,617, according to the online trend tracker RentCafe.

Voters approved the nearly $1 billion Measure A bond measure to help fill some of the
need by providing funding for approximately 4,800 affordable-housing units. So far, the
county has approved six developments with housing designated for persons leaving
homelessness, but none of them are in the northern section of county. The locations include
three developments in San Jose and one each in Cupertino, Gilroy and Morgan Hill, which
are scheduled to open between May 2019 and February 2021. Another 134-unit
development in San Jose, Second Street Studios, is expected to be completed by this
September.

The county plans to support a total 120 developments through the next decade, according to
the July report. Of the 1,449 housing units built as of Dec. 31, 2017, 946 are permanent
supportive housing -- housing that provides social, medical and other services -- and 503
are rapid rehousing, which gets people off the street quickly. Housing currently in the
pipeline will supply an additional 655 units of permanent supportive housing, 87 rapid-
rehousing units and 62 others of which use has not yet been determined.

But data in the county's July report supports a June 21 Santa Clara County Civil Grand Jury
finding that Santa Clara County cities are not supplying adequate housing -- particularly of
the type that helps keep people from homelessness.

Palo Alto ranked dismally when it came to meeting its 2007-2014 Regional Housing Need
Allocation, a state-mandated process Bay Area counties use to identify and project the
number of housing units needed to meet the needs of people of all income levels in each
county. Palo Alto issued building permits for just nine low-income units, or 2 percent, of its
543-unit allocation, and 156 permits, or 23 percent, of the 690 units for very low-income

                                                     3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 7/16/2018 10:29 AM
housing. For the 2015-2023 cycle through 2017, it has added 58 low-income units, or 13
percent, for low-income housing; and 20 units, or 3 percent, for very low-income residents,
according to the Association of Bay Area Governments.

A large part of the report is dedicated to support services that help keep people in housing
by providing case management, job assistance, medical and mental health services and
other needs. These programs are provided in both short-term and permanent housing. The
report points to the overall success of such programs. Since the county implemented the
2015-2020 Community Plan to End Homelessness, 5,154 people have found permanent
housing through various programs.

Of the clients in permanent supportive housing, 90 percent remained stably housed for at
least a year between July 2011 and the end of 2016. Only 6 percent of all clients who left
permanent supportive housing for other permanent housing in 2015 had returned to
homelessness within two years (four out of 65 persons). And 72 percent of clients who were
in short-term housing programs in 2017 went on to obtain permanent housing.

New programs aim to build on those numbers. In 2018, the Special Needs Direct Referral
program will work to house people with medical or behavioral needs who don't meet
federal standards for chronic homelessness. Santa Clara Valley Medical Center's Supportive
Housing Program also helps medically fragile persons who are identified as high users of
county emergency services. The program is a collaboration to provide housing, case
management and high-quality health care. Enrollment, which began in November, will
serve 70 clients.

Related content:

• Webcast: Grand jury's housing report

---

Follow the Palo Alto Weekly/Palo Alto Online on Twitter @PaloAltoWeekly and Facebook
for breaking news, local events, photos, videos and more.

Comments


Sent from my iPhone
--
Chuck

                                                     4
                                                                                Please Contact the Clerk’s Office
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 7/16/2018 10:29 AM                        to View Additional Pages,
                                                                                Attachments, or Images Related
                                                                                        to this Document
Carnahan, David

From:                         Roberta Ahlquist <roberta.ahlquist@sjsu.edu>
Sent:                         Thursday, July 12, 2018 9:49 PM
To:                           Aram James
Cc:                           WILPF Peninsula Palo Alto; Kniss, Liz (internal); chuck jagoda; Stop the Ban Discussion;
                              stevendlee@alumni.duke.edu; HRC; paloaltofreepress@gmail.com; Keene, James;
                              Council, City; citycouncil@menlopark.org; jrosen@da.sccgov.org; Jonsen, Robert
Subject:                      Re: County makes 'significant' progress in homeless housing | News | Palo Alto Online |
                              But see comments on the City of Palo Alto’s beyond dismal performance— in
                              providing housing for low or very low income persons ........



Ridiculous!

On Wed, Jul 11, 2018 at 12:17 PM, Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com> wrote:

 https://www.paloaltoonline.com/news/2018/07/11/county-makes-significant-progress-in-homeless-housing


 County makes 'significant' progress in
 homeless housing
 New report claims more than one-third of goal has been
 realized or is in progress
 Sue DremannUploaded: Wed, Jul 11, 2018, 8:50 am

 Menu




 The cost of housing has f ... (More)



                                                        6
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 7/16/2018 10:30 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                            JAH <jah.home@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Thursday, July 12, 2018 4:50 PM
To:                              Sarah.Ratliff@gcinc.com; Mello, Joshuah
Cc:                              Keene, James; Council, City
Subject:                         Re: Neighborhood Traffic Safety & Bicycle Boulevard Project
Attachments:                     Pages from Revised_Bulletin_8_-_Louis_Road_Redesign - markup.pdf



Hi, Sarah and Josh.

As I drove through the intersection of Amarillo and Louis this afternoon, I was disappointed to see that the stop
sign at Amarillo for eastbound traffic on Louis has been removed.

For the reasons I outlined in my email this morning, I ask that the City please replace the stop sign immediately
for the safety of pedestrians and bicyclists.

      First, the approved plans for the intersection show a stop sign for eastbound traffic on Louis at Amarillo,
       as I've highlighted on the attached plan sheet. That is what the public expected when the project was
       approved, and the City should keep its word.
      Second, if eastbound traffic on Louis does not stop at Amarillo, then it will be harder for bikes and cars
       to turn left onto Louis, particularly during the busy morning and evening peak hours. The numerous
       changes that the City has made to the intersection will already pose a challenge for parents who drive
       their kids to Ohlone Elementary in the morning (which unlike most other elementary schools in Palo
       Alto draws its students from throughout the district, not just those within walking or biking distance),
       and if it is difficult for cars to turn left from Amarillo onto eastbound Louis, then that intersection will
       be jammed every morning.
      Third, for pedestrians, part-way stop signs are not intuitive. Kids, for example, will reasonably assume
       that since there is a stop sign for westbound traffic at the intersection, then eastbound traffic must have a
       stop sign as well, and they'll risk stepping out into the crosswalk with the assumption that cars are about
       to stop. And as we all know, even though drivers are required to yield to pedestrians in crosswalks
       (marked or unmarked), many drivers don't.
      Fourth, many drivers do not know how to handle intersections like the one that the City has constructed
       at the Louis, Amarillo and Fielding. Sarah told me this morning that this is a combined intersection,
       which means that traffic at the two stop signs at Fielding and Louis is supposed to take turns with the
       traffic at the two stop signs at Amarillo and Louis. But Fielding and Amarillo are separated by more
       than 100 feet, and most drivers will assume that the intersections are separate and that drivers at Louis
       and Fielding do not need to watch or yield to drivers at Louis and Amarillo.

While I appreciate the City's effort to make the streets safer for bicyclists and pedestrians, the changes to the
intersection of Louis and Amarillo will only make it worse. Again, I ask that the City please replace the stop
sign for eastbound traffic on Louis at Amarillo.

Thanks.

John Hickey
650-303-0992
jah.home@gmail.com
                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 7/16/2018 10:30 AM

On Thu, Jul 12, 2018 at 11:32 AM JAH <jah.home@gmail.com> wrote:
 Hi, Sarah and Josh. I wanted to follow up on the quick conversation I had with Sarah this morning regarding
 the changes to the intersection of Amarillo and Louis. As I explained to Sarah, Granite has posted a "Cross
 Traffic Does Not Stop" sign for traffic entering the intersection southbound on Amarillo. However, the
 approved plans for the project (see, e.g., sheet CD-3) show that stop signs will continue to be in place for both
 eastbound and westbound traffic on Louis as traffic crosses Amarillo, which means that the "Cross Traffic"
 sign should not be necessary.

 It is essential for bike and vehicle safety that both eastbound and westbound traffic on Louis stop immediately
 before crossing Amarillo. The distance between the Fielding and Amarillo is too far for traffic turning left
 from southbound Amarillo onto eastbound Louis to be able to see whether traffic is approaching eastbound on
 Louis, particularly for bicyclists. Similarly, if the stop sign at Amarillo for eastbound traffic on Louis is
 eliminated, eastbound traffic on Louis that is stopped at Fielding will not be able to see southbound traffic on
 Amarillo and will not recognize or respect the right-of-way of the southbound Amarillo traffic. Again, this
 will be particularly dangerous for bicyclists turning left from southbound Amarillo onto eastbound Louis.

 I understand the desire to minimize the number of stop signs along this section of Louis, but the stop sign at
 Amarillo for eastbound traffic on Louis must remain, as shown on the approved plans. If the City would like
 to minimize the number of stop signs in this area, please consider eliminating the new stop sign at Fielding
 which provides minimal benefit, since few cars turn left onto southbound Fielding, and the stop sign provides
 no benefit for pedestrians crossing Louis at Fielding, since there is no traffic control for westbound Louis
 traffic at that location.

 I asked the City to provide copies of plans for the Neighborhood Traffic Safety & Bicycle Boulevard Project
 that are signed by a licensed traffic engineer and a copy of any report or memo from a showing that the plans
 have been reviewed and approved by a licensed traffic engineer, but the response I received from the City
 indicates that the plans were not prepared by or approved by a licensed traffic engineer. I have worked with
 Hexagon Transportation Consultants, one of Alta Planning + Design's subcontractors for the project, on a
 number of occasions and have generally been pleased with their work, but it appears that they might not have
 been sufficiently involved in this project.

 I'm hoping that you can confirm that the stop signs will remain in place for both westbound and eastbound
 traffic on Louis at Amarillo, as shown on the approved plans. If not, please would you schedule a time for the
 three of us and a representative from Hexagon to talk.

 Thanks very much.

 John Hickey
 650-303-0992
 jah.home@gmail.com




                                                         2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        City of Palo Alto
                                                                                                                                                                                                            MATCH LINE - STA "A" 37+00                                                                                                       1.    FOR NOTES, LEGEND AND ABBREVIATIONS SEE SHEETS GN-1 AND GN-2.                                                                                                        Planning & Community Development Dept.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Transportation Division




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           37+00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SEE BELOW                                                                                                                  2.    FOR DEMOLITION, GRADING, DRAINAGE & UTILITY, AND PLANTING DRAWING                                                                                                    250 Hamilton Avenue




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R/W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NUMBERS AT THIS LOCATION, SEE SHEET K-1, KEY MAP (SHEET NUMBER 2).                                                                                                   Palo Alto, CA 94301
                                                        NEW TREE (TYP)                                             Exist BUS STOP         DS 9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          O: (650) 329-2441
                                               (SEE LANDSCAPING PLANS)                                             SIGN AND BENCH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       F: (650) 329-2154




                                                                                                                                                                                                     R/W
                                                                                                                                               32
                                                                                                                   TO REMAIN                                                                                   5.0'                                                     CS 1         67                                                       CONSTRUCTION NOTES:
                                                                                 24                                                Exist STOP SIGN                                                                                                             57
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         29                                                                               DS 10
                                               NEW INLET (TYP)                                                         20          TO REMAIN                                                                                                                        Exist STOP                                                                CONSTRUCTION NOTES DO NOT NECESSARILY APPEAR ON EVERY
                                                (SEE DRAINAGE                                                                              19 LF 55                                                                                                                 SIGN TO                                 43 82 LF                          SHEET. FOR A FULL LIST OF CONSTRUCTION NOTES, SEE SHEET GN-2.
                                                       PLANS)                                                                                                                                                                                                       REMAIN
                                                                                                                                  CS 1                                                          3                                                                                          66                38
                                                                    11    19                                                                                                                                   10 LF 31                                 3                 2                                                                   1            CONSTRUCT CURB AND GUTTER PER COPA STD PLAN                         25                     CONSTRUCT CURB CUT PER DETAIL 25, SHEET D-4
                                                                                                                                             (TYP.) 26                                                                                                                                                                                                     NO. 133
                                           R/W                        1' GUTTER                                                                                                                                                                                                       R/W                         39 45 LF                                                                                                     26                     36" STEEL BOLLARD (URBAN ACCESSORIES OR APPROVED
                                                                                                                                                           .7 9
                                                                                                                                                       122                                                                                                                                                                                    2            CONSTRUCT CURB TRANSITION PER DETAIL 2, SHEET                                              EQUAL, CLASSIC BOLLARD MODEL #8-2C1, COLOR SILVER,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CONFORM
                                                                    14.0'




                                                                                  39




                                                                                                                                                                                   14.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           D-1                                                                                        SURFACE MOUNT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TO EXISTING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2.0'
                                                                                 48 LF
             MATCH LINE - STA "L1" 34+50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   STRIPING                   3            CONSTRUCT 4" PCC SIDEWALK PER COPA STD PLAN NO.                     28                     CONSTRUCT RETAINING CURB PER DETAIL 28, SHEET D-4




                                                                                                                                                                                   22.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                24.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           141
                                                            22.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               29                     CONSTRUCT ROLLED CURB AND GUTTER PER COPA STD                                                              100 Webster Street, Suite 300




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           36+30
                                                                                                  35+00                                S50° 39' 26"E      579.8792'                             36+00                                                                                     37+00                  37+25
                  SEE SHEET L-3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Oakland, CA 94607
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6            CONSTRUCT CURB RAMP PER CALTRANS STD PLAN RSP                                              PLAN NO. 134                                                                                               P: 510.540.5008
                                             LOUIS RD                                 3             8'                     LOUIS ROAD (L1 LINE)                                                                20                                                                                                                                          A88A, CASE F
                                                                                                   TYP                                                                                                                                                              2      20.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2                                                                                                                                                                             31                      INSTALL 12" LIMIT LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10           CONSTRUCT LANDSCAPED ISLAND PER DETAIL 10, SHEET




                                                                                                                                                                                   13.6'
                                                    13.6'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                11.6'
                                                                                                                                                                                                            N:1986226.29                                                                                                                                   D-2                                                                32                      INSTALL "STOP" PAVEMENT MARKING PER CALTRANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                            E:6089913.43                                                                                                                                                                                                                              STD PLAN A24D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   38
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              11           CONSTRUCT CONCRETE DRIVEWAY PER COPA STD PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                          150.02                                                                                                                                           N:1986166.01                    NO. 120                                                            33                      INSTALL BICYCLE BOULEVARD PAVEMENT MARKING PER
                                           R/W                                                                                                                                FIBER REINFORCED                                                                                  R/W                                        E:6089986.84                                                                                                               DETAIL 33, SHEET D-5
                                                                                                                                                                           24 CONCRETE - 3" MIN(SEE 2                                                   20                                                43 47 LF
                                                            20                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                13           CONSTRUCT MODIFIED ROLLED CURB AND GUTTER PER
                                                                                                                             FIELDING DR




                                                                                                                                                                              SHEET CD-2/CD-3A FOR                                                                                                                                                         DETAIL 13, SHEET D-3                                               38                      INSTALL BICYCLE LANE PAVEMENT MARKING PER DETAIL
                                                       19                                                                                                                     SECTIONS)                                                                   50                  32                                                                                                                                                                      38, SHEET D-5
                                                   1' GUTTER                                                       5.0'                            5.0'                Exist STOP SIGN                                                                  (TYP.)                                                                                15           CONSTRUCT MODIFIED CONCRETE DRIVEWAY PER
                                                                                                    3                                                                                                                                                                               4" WHITE
                                                           32                                                                                                          TO REMAIN Exist BUS STOP                                                                        31                                                                                  DETAIL 15, SHEET D-3                                               39                      INSTALL DOUBLE YELLOW CENTERLINE PER CALTRANS
                                                                                                                                                                                    SIGN AND BENCH                                                                                  DIAGONAL STRIPE
                                                                                                          R/W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DETAIL 22, STD PLAN A20A
                                                                                                                                                                R/W



                                                                    9 LF 31                                                                                                50       TO REMAIN                                                                         20 LF         AT 5' SPACING                                             18           CONSTRUCT MEDIAN CURB PER DETAIL 18, SHEET D-3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2
                                                                                                                                                                         (TYP.)                                                                                                    REMOVE                                                                                                                                      43                     INSTALL BIKE LANE LINE PER CALTRANS DETAIL 39, STD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              06/01/2018
                                                                                 60                              39




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               04/24/2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CONFLICTING                                                19           CONSTRUCT MODIFIED CURB AND GUTTER PER DETAIL                                              PLAN A20D
                                                                                                                                                                             3                             DECORATIVE TREATMENT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DATE
                                                                                                                48 LF                                                                                                                                                              STRIPING AND                                                            19, SHEET D-3
                                                                                 DS 8
                                                                                                                        32                                                                                 (PUBLIC ART) AT RAISED                                                                                                                                                                                              48                     INSTALL 4" WHITE STRIPE PER CALTRANS STD PLAN A20D
                                                                                                    29                                                                                                     INTERSECTION TO BE                                                      MARKINGS (TYP.)
                                                                                                                                  29                                                                                                                                               "L1" 36+88.04 0.00'                                        20           SAWCUT AND HMA PLUG PER DETAIL 20, SHEET D-3
                                                                                                                                                                           31 12 LF                        INSTALLED BY OTHERS.                                                                                                                                                                                               50                      INSTALL SPEED HUMP MARKING PER CA MUTCD FIGURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                           COLORED ASPHALT. SEE                                                NEW PAVEMENT LIMITS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              REVISED BULLETIN 8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              24           COLORED CONCRETE (DAVIS COLORS OR APPROVED                                                 3B-30, OPTION A
                                                                                                                                                                                                           SHEET CD-2 AND CD-3A FOR                           TRANSITION PROPOSED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         REVISIONS
                                                                                  FOR GRADING AND ADDITIONAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EQUAL, LIGHT BROOM FINISH, SEQUOIA SAND COLOR)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DESCRIPTION
                                                                                      INFORMATION AT THIS                                                         66                                       NEW PAVEMENT SECTION.                                    SIDEWALK OVER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              55                      PAINT CURB RED PER DETAIL 55, SHEET D-6
                                                                                 INTERSECTION, SEE SHEET CD-3                                                                                                                                                 EXISTING BOX CULVERT. 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SEE CD-3 FOR GRADING.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BULLETIN 8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              56                      INSTALL SHARED PATH CENTER LINE (4" BROKEN) PER CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MUTCD FIGURE 9C-2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              57                      INSTALL SHARED PATH MARKING PER DETAIL 57,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SHEET D-6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FOR GRADING AND ADDITIONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         INFORMATION AT THIS LOCATION,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           11        28                                        60                     INSTALL R1-1 (30 X 30) "STOP" SIGN PER CA MUTCD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NO.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SEE SHEET CD-4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          25   TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               66                     INSTALL W11-15 (30 X 30) "PEDESTRIAN AND BICYCLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3                                                                                                               WARNING" SIGN
                                                                                                                                                                               69 LF            48                                                                                                                                                                                                3
                                                                            66                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1' GUTTER 1                                                                                          67                     INSTALL R26 (S) (CA) (12 X 18) "NO STOPPING ANY TIME"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    33                                                                                                                                71                                              SIGN PER CALIFORNIA MUTCD
                                                                                                                                                                              69 LF             56                                                                            FOR GREEN INFRASTRUCTURE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           40+46
                                           37+08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               38+86




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DETAILS SEE SHEET D-7 (TYP.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2                  71                      INSTALL TYPE Q (CA) OBJECT MARKER PER CALTRANS
                                                                            33             13                                                                                                                                                                                  13                                                                                                                                                                     STD PLAN A73A
                               R/W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R/W
MATCH LINE - STA "A" 37+00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1 MOD (3" CURB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MATCH LINE - STA "A" 41+50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2.5' GUTTER)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AMBLUR BICYCLE BOULEVARDS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LAYOUT - MORENO-AMARILLO
                                                                                                                          60.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            11.5'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SEE SHEET L-5
                                                                                                                                                AMARILLO AVE
      SEE ABOVE




                                                                                                  (TYP.) 57
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               20                                                2
                                                                                          25.6'
                                                                                          28.6'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2
           37+00                                                                                                                           38+00          N39° 19' 55"E      2861.4280'                                                     39+00                       2' SAWCUT                                            40+00                                                        41+00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LEGEND:
                                                                                                                                                    AMARILLO AVENUE (A LINE)                                                                                                                                                     20                                                                                                               DS XX       DESTINATION SIGN (BIKE BOULEVARD WAYFINDING)
                                                     7.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PALO ALTO, CALIFORNIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SEE SIGN SCHEDULE ON SHEET SS-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CS XX       CONFIRMATION SIGN (BIKE BOULEVARD WAYFINDING)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SEE SIGN SCHEDULE ON SHEET SS-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R/W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PCC SIDEWALK / DRIVEWAY

                                                                                 R/W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LANDSCAPED AREA (SEE PLANTING PLANS)

                                                                                                                                              15                                                                      15                                                                                                                               18 6"                                                                                                  DETECTABLE WARNING SURFACE
                                                                                                           24                                                                                   24                                                                                                                                                                              33




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SHEET TITLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          JOB NAME




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LOCATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6                                                                                                      COLORED ASPHALT CONCRETE (SEE NOTE 23)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    67
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ON Exist SIGN POST                                                                                                  18    6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              COLORED CONCRETE (SEE NOTE 24)                   2
                                                                                                                                                                                           55       338 LF          REMOVE Exist NO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PROJECT NO.
                                                                                                            56 115 LF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2016-149
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PARKING SIGN PANEL                                                                                           20                                                                                                                          INSTALL 6" AC/10" AB ROADWAY SECTION (SEE
                                                                                                                                              67                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GRIND AND OVERLAY PER DETAIL 17, SHEET D-3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    67                                                                                                                                       SHEETS CD-2, CD-3 AND CD-3A                                SCALE:
                                                                                                            48 115 LF                                                              "A" 37+93.93 10.00' R                                                                                             24                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1" = 20'
                                                                                                                                                                                          DRIVEWAY CL                                                                                                              ON Exist LIGHT POLE                                                                                                                        COBBLE STONE MEDIAN PAVING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                56    52 LF        REMOVE Exist NO                                                                                                                                                                                      DRAWN BY:
                                                                                                      FOR GRADING AND ADDITIONAL                                                                                                                                                                                   PARKING SIGN PANEL                                                                                                                         RED PAINTED CURB                                                                                                                  CV
                                                                                                     INFORMATION AT THIS LOCATION,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                48       52 LF                                                                                                                                                                                                          SHEET NO.                                                                                                   29 OF 184
                                                                                                            SEE SHEET CD-4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SAWCUT LINE (SEE NOTE 20)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         "A" 38+98.70 10.00' R                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DRAWING NUMBER:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DRIVEWAY CL                                                                                                                                                                                    20         0    10   20             40

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SCALE     PLAN SCALE          FEET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   L-4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 7/16/2018 10:32 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                               Carol Kibler <cjkib@sbcglobal.net>
Sent:                               Sunday, July 15, 2018 8:25 AM
To:                                 Council, City
Subject:                            Re: Your e-mail to City Council was received


Hi. I am again writing to voice my opinion about the construction on arastadero

Friday the outline of the new areas that will be cement barriers was placed. I urge you to come out and drive this, make
the turns etc.
you have created areas that are impossible to drive in without crossing over into other traffic. Example. If you are
making a right hand turn on Coulombe from Arastadero in a car that is long or a moving truck or for truck you will either
have to swing into oncoming traffic or you will have to swing into the the other lane of cars on Coulombe waiting at the
light. We sat and watched cars Saturday try and make this turn.

Another problem you have created is no one will be able to make a right hand turn now onto arastadero except during
the green light. Traffic already backs up 4 houses down on Coulombe in the mornings now if you can only get out at a
light this will back up more. In the plans you now have made 2 crossings at this intersection so now cars will not be able
to make left hand turns until the people that have crossed have gone. I have expressed my opinion that this should be
left one crosswalk for this reason. We should keep people safe and keep traffic flowing. What you are creating here is
going to push more peephole onto maybell which is crowded with bicycles acting crazy not stopping at stop signs and all
over the road.

I really feel like you should implement this on embarcadero first. And have to live with your traffic nightmares you are
creating
For us who live around arastadero each time you mess around with this street we pay the consequences on sitting at
traffic lights hoping they will turn. Sitting on arastadero waiting in traffic to get to your street.
Now I’m hoping that I can make the tight turn you are developing and pray no one needs an ambulance or fire truck
during morning or evening commutes

It’s not to late to rethink this....,, come take a look at this. Drive it. Make the turns. Imagine traffic in the am and then
double it when school is in.

Thanks for listening
Carol kibler

Sent from my iPhone

On Mar 30, 2018, at 2:59 PM, Council, City <city.council@cityofpaloalto.org> wrote:

        Thank you for your comments to the City Council. Your e‐mail will be forwarded to all nine Council
        Members and a printout of your correspondence will also be included in the next available Council
        packet.

        If your comments are about an item that is already scheduled for a City Council agenda, you can call
        329‐2571 to confirm that the item is still on the agenda for the next meeting.



                                                               1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 7/16/2018 10:32 AM
       If your letter mentions a specific complaint or a request for service, we'll either reply with an
       explanation or else send it on to the appropriate department for clarification.

       We appreciate hearing from you.




                                                             2
RETURN ADDRESS:

                  Stephanie La~~l~n~fJA'fMCJSC                      .CA~
              35 Woodview Lane
              Woodside, CA 940~l.l       .JL:M.. :20la .P.ti!.~ .!
                                                                                                                                   POSTCA~D   I US/I.


I support Castilleja's proposal to                                                                                       n£?
increase enrollment and modernize its                                                                           CD       --1
                                                                                                                <-       ~-<
campus because ...
                                                                                                                ;;=      nO

                                                                                                                w
                                                                                                                         •"'"
                                                                                                                         ~~
                                                                                                                         :::r;;•
                                                                                                                :za      u)O
                                                                                                                :x       ol>
                                                                                                             0           "'Tl!:i
                                                                          Office of the Clerk ~                   ~p
                                                                          Please distribute to all          G*V Co~embers
                                                                          250 Hamilton Avenue, 7th Floor
                                                                          Palo Alto, CA, 94301




                                                                                          0           GO TE .~
                                                                                           St,N FR ANC I ;c.-.-
                                                                                                            ,
                                                                                                   ·=--s                    n~

                                                                                                                        £?·~ "     "--
                                                                                                             <-         ~-<
                                                                                                 , . .. r-
                                                                                                        <::             no
                                                                                                                        ,.,,
campus because ...                                                                                                      f'T'l-0
                                                                                                            w           :;::Jl>

~\f~ et\~'~'<\oY\
                                                                                                                        :::x:r
                                                                                                         ,~ :la         u)Cl
                                                                                                            :JC         cl>
                                                                                                            5••         "Tl!:;
\ ~ \-r\1ort A~'t.                                                        Office of the Clerk
                                                                                                            N
                                                                                                            r
                                                                                                                        ~o
                                                                                                                        n·
                                                                                                                        ,,.,n
                                                                                                                           l>
                                                                          Please distribute to all City Council Members
                                                                          250 Hamilton Avenue, 7th Floor
                                                                          Palo Alto, CA, 94301




                            11 I• 'I' 1',,I 1 1 I11 1 II, , , , , II I1111111I1 1 I1 Il /I,,,,,, 1, •, 111 1 1111 III
Office of the Clerk
Please distribute to all City Council Members
250 Hamilton Avenue, 7th Floor
Palo Alto, CA, 94301
