                    City of Palo Alto                                                    (ID # 9891)
                    City Council Staff Report

Report Type: Action Items                            Meeting Date: 12/17/2018

Summary Title: Project Update and Possible Action on Rail Grade Separation
Alternatives

Title: Project Update on Connecting Palo Alto and Consider the Following
Actions: a) Separate From Study all Alternatives for the Palo Alto Avenue
Crossing (Closure and Hybrid) and Include Palo Alto Avenue in a Separate
Comprehensive Planning Effort; b) Separate From Study the Bicycle and
Pedestrian Crossing of the Caltrain Corridor in the Vicinity of Loma Verde
Avenue and Assess Feasibility in a Future Study; c) Address the Rail
Committee’s Recommendation Regarding a Deep Bore Tunnel by Modifying
the Alternative to be South of California Avenue Only and Further Explore
the Scope and Budget for an Alternative With Freight Trains on the Surface
and Passenger Trains Underground for the Meadow and Charleston Crossings;
and d) Adopt a Modified List of Grade Separation Alternatives.

From: City Manager

Lead Department: City Manager

Recommendation
Staff recommends that Council receive a project update on Connecting Palo Alto and consider the
following actions:

    a) Separate from study all alternatives for the Palo Alto Avenue crossing (closure and hybrid) and
       include Palo Alto Avenue in a separate comprehensive planning effort;

    b) Separate from study the bicycle and pedestrian crossing of the Caltrain corridor in the vicinity of
       Loma Verde Avenue and assess feasibility in a future study;

    c) Address the Rail Committee’s recommendation regarding a deep bore tunnel by modifying the
       alternative to be South of California Avenue only and further explore [the Scope and Budget] for
       an alternative with freight trains on the surface and passenger trains underground [for the
       Meadow and Charleston crossings].

    d) Adopt         a      Modified        List      of      Grade        Separation        Alternatives:


City of Palo Alto                                                                                  Page 1
         -    SOUTH PALO ALTO | Deep-Bore Rail Tunnel
         -    CHURCHILL AVE. | Full or Partial Closure & Add Improvements (CAX)
         -    MEADOW DR. & CHARLESTON RD. | Hybrid (MCL)
         -    MEADOW DR. & CHARLESTON RD. | Rail Trench or Tunnel (MCT)
         -    MEADOW DR. & CHARLESTON RD. | Viaduct (MCV)


Executive Summary
Connecting Palo Alto, the City’s rail corridor grade separation planning effort, is approaching the goal of
selecting a preferred solution by February 2019. The current stage of the process focuses on narrowing
the remaining grade separation alternatives based on Rail Committee recommendations, Community
Advisory Panel (CAP) suggestions, public feedback, technical design development, and ultimately City
Council direction.

For the City’s four at-grade crossings, the City Council voted and gave staff direction at the May 29, 2018
City Council meeting to narrow the alternatives down to ten grade separation alternatives. The ten
alternatives were further narrowed to eight at the June 19, 2018 City Council meeting, due to the
elimination and modification of alternatives at Churchill Avenue. At the December 17, 2018 meeting, the
City Council has an opportunity to further narrow the list of remaining alternatives before the February
City Council meeting which, based on the current schedule, is the target meeting for selecting a
preferred solution. The current alternatives still in consideration based on the City Council direction in
June 2018 are listed here. In addition to these alternatives, at the November 27th Rail Committee
meeting, the Committee recommended that staff and the consultant further explore [the scope and
budget for] an alternative with freight trains on the surface and passenger trains underground.
Members of the public advocated for this additional alternative with the intention for it to be specific to
the Meadow and Charleston crossings as opposed to citywide though that specificity was not provided
in the Rail Committee’s recommended motion.


Rail Alternatives Still in Consideration as of June 19, 2019 Council Action:

    a. WBP          CITYWIDE | Deep-Bore Rail Tunnel
                    City-wide deep-bore railroad under roadway tunnel within Palo Alto city limits with two
                    new underground rail stations;

    b. PAH          PALO ALTO AVE. | Hybrid
                    Continue proposed Menlo Park railroad over roadway hybrid and/or viaduct across San
                    Francisquito Creek and Palo Alto Avenue;

    c. PCX          PALO ALTO AVE. | Full Closure
                    Palo Alto Avenue Crossing Closed; improvement options include: build an Everett
                    Avenue bike/pedestrian undercrossing and widen University Avenue;

    d. CAX          CHURCHILL AVE. | Full or Partial Closure & Add Improvements




City of Palo Alto                                                                                    Page 2
                    Study additional options for addressing traffic in the Embarcadero Road underpass area
                    including actions to minimize redirected traffic onto residential streets in adjacent
                    neighborhoods and commit to adopting appropriate mitigations to address the impacts;

    c. MCL          MEADOW DR. & CHARLESTON RD. | Hybrid
                    Meadow Drive and Charleston Road railroad over roadway hybrid and build Loma Verde
                    Avenue bike/pedestrian crossing to connect to Margarita Avenue bicycle boulevard;

    d. MCT          MEADOW DR. & CHARLESTON RD. | Rail Trench or Tunnel
                    Meadow Drive and Charleston Road roadway over railroad trench or tunnel Alma street
                    would not be within trench or tunnel (maintains Alma Street connections to Meadow
                    Drive and Charleston Road) with Alma Street in its existing alignment or a new
                    alignment;

    e. MCV          MEADOW DR. & CHARLESTON RD. | Viaduct
                    Meadow Drive and Charleston Road railroad over roadway viaduct.

    f.   MCR        MEADOW DR. & CHARLESTON RD. | Reverse Hybrid
                    Meadow Drive & Charleston Road roadway over railroad reverse hybrid and build Loma
                    Verde Avenue bike/pedestrian crossing to connect to Margarita Avenue bicycle
                    boulevard. On August 15, 2018 Rail Committee recommended merging this alternative
                    with MCT.

Since the June 19, 2018 City Council meeting, the Rail Committee and CAP discussed potential
policy considerations for the Palo Alto Avenue crossing given its unique context near Downtown and the
Transit Center, and potential land use coordination opportunities. Staff recommends that the City
Council at the December 17, 2018 meeting consider putting the Palo Alto Ave grade crossing
alternatives analysis on a separate but parallel planning track as part of a Downtown Coordinated Area
Planning effort. If Council agrees, this would remove the PAH and PCX alternatives above from study.

In addition to the action related to the Palo Alto Avenue crossing, staff is also recommending that the
City Council at the December 17, 2018 meeting consider removing from study the bicycle and pedestrian
crossing of the Caltrain corridor in the vicinity of Loma Verde Avenue and assess feasibility in a future
study. This study was included in the June 19, 2018 City Council motion for the Meadow Drive and
Charleston Road hybrid alternative (MCL). Due to the need to coordinate bicycle access with crosstown
circulation, staff recommends that this be removed from study with the grade separation alternatives.

Further technical analysis, conceptual engineering, and interagency communication related to the
Meadow Drive and Charleston Road alternatives illuminated key differences between the three options
for these two crossings. In addition to the greatest construction cost and disruption, the trench option
(MCT) has substantial engineering and regulatory challenges related to drainage, groundwater, and
creek diversion. The viaduct (MCV) and hybrid (MCL) are expected to have relatively lower capital
construction cost but would introduce visual changes along the affected areas of the corridor and
potentially new noise impacts. A detailed comparison of the alternatives is presented in the Discussion
section of this report.

Background and Project Update


City of Palo Alto                                                                                   Page 3
The following is a summary of the eight grade separation design alternatives presently under
consideration as part of Connecting Palo Alto, and direction received at two City Council meetings which
informed the scope and extent of these alternatives. While Council has discussed grade separation at
many past City Council meetings, this report highlights Council decisions which concern selection of the
narrowed ten design alternatives and subsequent action to narrow the range of alternatives in pursuit of
a preferred solution by February 2019. This section of the report will primarily summarize City Council
action, key Rail Committee recommendations, CAP suggestions, and interagency feedback as it relates
to the remaining alternatives. Full summaries and minutes of CAP and Rail Committee meetings are
available via the project website: connectingpaloalto.org. Attachment A also contains a list of meetings
held related to this project.

City Council Action on Grade Separation Alternatives
Initially narrowed by City Council:             May 29, 2018
Revised by City Council:                        June 19, 2018

MAY 29, 2018 CITY COUNCIL MEETING – TEN ALTERNATIVES
City Council selected ten discrete grade separation alternatives for further study at the May 29, 2018
Council meeting, representing a significant milestone in the Connecting Palo Alto planning process. In
project nomenclature, this decision constituted a transition from a vast constellation of design “ideas,”
to ten design “alternatives.” Design “ideas” are general in nature and “alternatives” are more distinctly
defined to allow for more detailed study and community discussion. This action initiated the current
stage of the Connecting Palo Alto planning process, which involves continual refinement and narrowing
of alternatives until a preferred solution is reached.

JUNE 19, 2018 CITY COUNCIL MEETING – CHURCHILL AVENUE
To date since the May 29, 2018 Council meeting, City Council met once to discuss and act upon rail
design alternatives (on June 19, 2018). As a result of City Council direction received at this
meeting, the Churchill Avenue Hybrid and Reverse Hybrid were removed from further consideration and
the Churchill Avenue closure alternative was modified to remove the widening of the Embarcadero Road
underpass from the description of the closure option. Instead, traffic impacts of the closure would be
evaluated through a comprehensive traffic study. Finally, a “partial closure” alternative at Churchill
Avenue was added as part of the closure option. Following City Council’s direction at this meeting,
the number of alternatives under study reduced from ten to eight and one alternative was modified.
The outcome of this decision is reflected in the list of alternatives shown in the Executive Summary. .

Summer & Fall Developments
In the months following the June 19, 2018 Council meeting, several Rail Committee and CAP meetings
centered on technical issues related to the Meadow Drive and Charleston Road crossings. Also discussed
were the policy, planning, and coordination opportunities around the Palo Alto Avenue crossing and its
relationship to Downtown and the Transit Center and land use issues. City staff and the consultant team
conducted interagency meetings with Caltrain and the Santa Clara Valley Water District (SCVWD) to
augment project design criteria and identify areas of risk or where deviation from standard practices
would be necessary.

AUGUST 15, 2018 RAIL COMMITTEE – MEADOW DR & CHARLESTON RD. REVERSE HYBRID MERGER

City of Palo Alto                                                                                 Page 4
As a result of the property impacts projected as part of the Churchill Avenue hybrid alternative, staff and
the consultant team accelerated design development of the four alternatives at Meadow Drive and
Charleston Road to ascertain the degree of potential property impacts. The design progression revealed
two key findings for Meadow Drive and Charleston Road: no full property acquisition was required and
few geometric differences existed between the reverse hybrid and full trench alternatives to warrant
further study as separate alternatives.

Based on conceptual designs, permanent property impacts for the Meadow and Charleston hybrid
consisted of modifications to existing driveways. The trench alternative was found to require minimal
property acquisition above ground (Note: analysis conducted later in the fall revealed a need for
underground easements for a structural anchor system to support the trench). The viaduct requires no
property acquisition. The second outcome of this process revealed the design of the reverse hybrid
(Alternative MCR) had few benefits as a discrete alternative relative to the full trench alternative
(Alternative MCT). Accordingly, the Rail Committee recommended that variations in the vertical
alignment of the rail trench be considered as part of Alternative MCT, the full trench alternative. Due to
this recommendation, staff focused analysis effort on Alternative MCT and presented results to the CAP,
Rail Committee, and at the November 28 Community Meeting.
OCTOBER 2018 – CALTRAIN & SANTA CLARA VALLEY WATER DISTRICT INTERAGENCY MEETINGS
During October, City staff and the AECOM consultant team met with counterparts at Caltrain and the
Santa Clara Valley Water District (SCVWD) to discuss technical engineering issues related to the grade
separation design alternatives.

Discussion topics included approval processes and criteria for designs with railroad grades steeper than
one percent; maintenance responsibilities for grade separation structures during their lifespan; and
drainage design criteria related to below-grade alternatives. Caltrain engineering indicated that grades
steeper than one percent were permitted at the recently-completed San Bruno grade separation
project, but that such exceptions are granted on a case-by-case basis. The City sent a letter to Caltrain
seeking additional clarity on these matters and are awaiting a response. A copy of the letter is attached
to this report as Attachment B.

One meeting and subsequent correspondence with SCVWD concentrated on issues related to the four
locations where creeks cross the rail corridor within the city. Of concern were scenarios where below-
grade alternatives obstruct existing creek beds, necessitating an engineering method to divert creek
outflow around the below-ground rail structures. Comments from SCVWD staff (Attachment C)
regarding the design alternatives and their relationship to waterways are discussed in greater detail in
following sections.

NOVEMBER 27, 2018 RAIL COMMITTEE – MODIFIED TUNNEL WITH FREIGHT ON SURFACE
At the November 27, 2018 Rail Committee meeting they recommended the City Council direct staff and
the consultant team to further explore [the scope and budget for] an alternative with freight trains on
the surface and passenger trains underground. Members of the public advocated for this additional
alternative with the intention for it to be specific to the Meadow and Charleston crossings as opposed to
citywide though that specificity was not provided in the Rail Committee’s recommended motion.

Based on very preliminary estimates, the technical analysis, 3-D rendering, conceptual schematics and
costing for the tunnel alternative currently assumes that both the passenger and freight trains are in the
deep bore tunnel for the citywide tunnel. To conduct the same level of study for a passenger train only


City of Palo Alto                                                                                   Page 5
in the tunnel and freight train on the surface for the Meadow and Charleston crossings, additional
budget and time will be needed. Depending on the analysis scope, the increased costs to conduct the
analysis is expected to be at least $100,000. Beyond the cost and schedule needed, the AECOM
consultants have indicated that the construction cost savings for a passenger only tunnel are unlikely to
yield significant savings compared to a tunnel that includes freight. In addition, the land value capture of
a tunnel is lost if freight remains on the surface, which is also something to consider. However, the
issues raised could be evaluated by refocusing the current citywide tunnel to South Palo Alto only. If the
City Council directs staff to proceed with the additional study, staff will return to the City Council with a
budget change order request.

NOVEMBER 28, 2018 COMMUNITY MEETING – MEADOW DR. & CHARLESTON RD. FOCUS
A summary of the main feedback received at the community meeting will be provided at the City Council
meeting. A meeting summary will also be available online on the connectingpaloalto project website.

Discussion and Key Findings
As noted above, the focus of staff and the consultant team centered on the three active grade
separation alternatives at Meadow Drive and Charleston Road. The Citywide Rail Tunnel and Churchill
Avenue alternatives are under development with results scheduled for distribution and feedback at the
CAP, City Council, and public in early 2019. The following section highlights key aspects of the Meadow
Drive and Charleston Road alternatives based on the City Council adopted screening criteria;
recommendations regarding Palo Alto Avenue alternatives; and developing information around creeks,
groundwater, and drainage.

Drainage, Creek Crossings, & Groundwater
Presently, conceptual designs for the two below-ground alternatives, the Citywide Deep-Bore Rail
Tunnel (WBP) and the Meadow Drive and Charleston Road trench (MCT), obstruct existing creek
corridors, are within areas of shallow groundwater, and would require extensive stormwater drainage
systems. Groundwater and stormwater can be managed with pump systems, but the creek crossings are
of greatest concern from an engineering feasibility, regulatory, and maintenance cost standpoint.
Presently, staff is not recommending the below-grade options be removed from consideration as further
engineering analysis is required and underway. However, staff wanted to share the following
preliminary findings as they will figure prominently in forthcoming feasibility evaluations.

Alternative WBP would obstruct Adobe Creek and Alternative MCT would obstruct Adobe and Barron
Creeks. This occurs due to the physical geometry requirements and project limits defined in the
alternative descriptions. Based on preliminary analysis, a pump system, known as a lift station, appears
to be the only solution potentially capable of managing the water flow rates within the affected creeks,
but further engineering feasibility of this pump system is necessary and is underway. Should an
engineering solution be technically possible, the City would need to obtain approval from various state,
regional, and federal agencies with regulatory authority and meet strict environmental regulations. The
following are a summary of preliminary standards and criteria from the Santa Clara Valley Water District
(SCVWD) for engineering solutions to the creek obstructions introduced by the below-ground
alternatives:

    •    Provide the same conveyance capacity as existing conditions;
    •    Provide equivalent SCVWD maintenance requirements as the existing condition and not

City of Palo Alto                                                                                     Page 6
         increase District maintenance costs;
    •    Be functional during all flow events with sediment and debris loading;
    •    Allow fish passage;
    •    Be designed to not increase the potential for flooding or adversely impact existing flooding
         conditions;
    •    Be permitted by various regulatory agencies, potentially including but not limited to: California
         State Department of Fish and Wildlife, San Francisco Bay Regional Water Quality Control Board,
         and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers; and
    •    Waterways within or related to a FEMA floodplain must also be examined by the City’s
         Floodplain administrator to demonstrate the project will not adversely affect the risk of flooding
         or follow the process to modify floodplain boundaries.

If all engineering and environmental criteria are satisfied, the pump and lift stations will require ongoing
maintenance to ensure reliable operation during storms.


Meadow Drive & Charleston Road
Exclusive of the citywide tunnel, three grade separation options for the Meadow Drive and Charleston
Road crossings have been analyzed and developed to a greater degree: MCT, MCL, and MCV. This
approach was based on a CAP suggestion that it would be beneficial to center on Meadow Drive and
Charleston Road at the November 28 Community Meeting, culminating with the citywide tunnel,
Churchill Avenue, and Palo Alto Avenue at the January 23 Community Meeting.

Development of the reverse hybrid alternative (MCR), and an ancillary feature of the hybrid alternative,
the Loma Verde bicycle and pedestrian undercrossing, was not advanced. The former was not advanced
based on Rail Committee recommendations and staff finding there were few practical differences
between the reverse hybrid (MCR) and trench (MCT) as discrete alternatives. Staff is recommending City
Council merge MCR with MCT due to the previous findings and Rail Committee recommendation.

The general location of the Loma Verde bicycle and pedestrian undercrossing, which is presently
included as part of the hybrid (Alternative MCL), was ultimately found to be outside the construction
limits for Alternative MCL and introduces design challenges which would benefit from analysis in a
future study. This finding was based on a preliminary feasibility analysis of the crossing, conducted as
part of the City’s 2016 Midtown Connector Feasibility Study. Challenges noted in the study include
obtaining right-of-way to complete the connection on the west side of the rail corridor to Park
Boulevard. On the east side of Alma, utility relocation would be necessary to construct the
undercrossing tunnel portal. Accordingly, staff is recommending City Council remove the Loma Verde
bicycle and pedestrian crossing from further study within Connecting Palo Alto and resume detailed
analysis in a future effort.

For the remaining three alternatives, as described in the Attachment D engineering memos, the Council-
adopted screening criteria are a critical tool for evaluating the differences between the three
alternatives at Meadow Drive and Charleston Road. The consultant team, in collaboration with staff and
the CAP worked to assign values on an “impact-improvement” scale for each criterion. Of the ten
screening criteria, the discussion will focus on the six where key differences exist between the design
options. Criteria A, B, C, and H will not be further discussed at this time since each option offers a similar


City of Palo Alto                                                                                      Page 7
degree of improvement toward meeting that goal. While the Council Criteria were initially broken down
into Tier 1 and Tier 2 criteria, staff is working under the assumption that there is less need for the tiers
and instead only the need to use one set of criteria to be more consistent with Council direction. The
chart below is the matrix which applies the Council Criteria to the Meadow and Charleston alternatives.

Council Adopted Evaluation Criteria Applied to the Meadow and Charleston Alternatives:
Criteria                                                     Trench      Hybrid      Viaduct
                                                             (MCT)       (MCL)       (MCV)
A     Improve east-west connectivity
B     Reduce traffic congestion and delays
C     Provide clear, safe routes for pedestrians and bikes
D     Support continued rail operations

E     Finance with feasible funding sources

F     Minimize right-of-way acquisition

G     Reduce rail noise and vibration

H     Maintain or improve local access

I     Minimize visual changes along the corridor
J     Minimize disruption and duration of construction                 5 years        4 years        2 years

K     Order of magnitude cost                                          $600M-         $200M-         $400M-
                                                                       $800M*         $250M*         $450M*

                Impact-Improvement
                        Scale

                                                             *Total preliminary construction costs in 2018 dollars
                                                             (subject to change)
      Improvement                    Impact


CRITERIA D | SUPPORT CONTINUED RAIL OPERATIONS
The viaduct was ranked with the highest color tile since it has the least impact to rail operations both
during and after construction. During construction, both the hybrid and trench alternatives require
temporary railroad detour tracks, known as a “shoofly,” whereas the viaduct can be constructed without
the shoofly track. Following completion, the trench option will have greater maintenance costs due to
the required pump systems for groundwater storm water, and at the Barron and Adobe Creek crossings.

CRITERIA E | FINANCE WITH FEASIBLE FUNDING SOURCES
Further financial analysis is underway. More detailed analysis will be presented in February. The current
information is available on the connectingpaloalto website in the Community Meeting Presentation
materials.

CRITERIA F | MINIMIZE RIGHT OF WAY ACQUISITON
Based on results from this stage of the design process, full property acquisition is not necessary for any

City of Palo Alto                                                                                                Page 8
of the three alternatives. The trench alternative requires the most property acquisition, but primarily in
the form of underground easements to permit construction and protection of a permanent structural
anchor system. These anchors would radiate horizontally away from the trench walls and function as
structural support to the wall system. Building and landscaping would be restricted within the
easements to protect the integrity of the anchor system. The extent of the easement is contingent on
the number of anchors required based on soil conditions and the project team are presently conducting
further analysis on this factor. A secondary potential property need for the trench is for the pump
stations which are necessary at the creek crossings and at one or more locations along the trench to
remove stormwater and groundwater.

The hybrid will require some modifications to existing driveways where the roadways approaching the
undercrossing are lowered from their existing height to go beneath the railroad. The viaduct is currently
shown to require no property acquisition.

CRITERIA G | REDUCE RAIL NOISE AND VIBRATION
All alternatives eliminate train horn noise and warning bells and have some degree of noise impact or
improvement. In a trench, noise could reflect off walls and impact properties farther away, but noise
levels adjacent to the rail corridor could be reduced. The viaduct and hybrid alternatives could elevate
wheel noise levels. In all cases, mitigation is possible, but would require further analysis.

CRITERIA I | MINIMIZE VISUAL CHANGES ALONG THE CORRIDOR
The trench has train below grade with landscaping option limited to bushes or plants with shallow root
systems; the hybrid has train approximately 15 feet above grade with feasible landscaping with trees for
screening. Attachment E identifies how to access the visuals for each of these alternatives.

CRITERIA J | MINIMIZE DISRUPTION AND DURATION OF CONSTRUCTION
The trench has extended road closures at Meadow and Charleston during construction; hybrid has
extended road reductions at Alma, Meadow, and Charleston during construction; viaduct has minimal
road closures (weekend/ nights only).

Among the MCT, MCL, and MCV options each one has benefits and tradeoffs based on the screening
criteria, but the trench appears to have the greatest degree of impact with the exception of noise and
potential visual changes. Furthermore, substantial engineering challenges around drainage,
groundwater, and creek diversion.

Palo Alto Avenue
The Palo Alto Avenue crossing is characterized by its unique setting. Situated in the shadow of the El
Palo Alto tree, adjacent to the historic rail bridge spanning San Francisquito Creek, and at the edge of
Downtown and Downtown North, and the transit center, the crossing is worthy of its “Primary Gateway”
designation in the Comprehensive Plan 2030. These characteristics, among other factors, are the primary
reasons for staff recommending separating the Palo Alto Avenue crossing from the current Connecting
Palo Alto analysis and completing separate parallel planning effort as part of a Downtown Coordinated
Area Plan. See Attachment F for a defined problem statement and recommendation for Council.

The two alternatives under consideration for Palo Alto Avenue, the closure (PCX) and hybrid (PAH)
would benefit from the holistic analysis of the coordinated area plan process, as recommended in the


City of Palo Alto                                                                                  Page 9
Comprehensive Plan 2030. Impacts of the closure option would benefit from a circulation analysis that
accounts for potential land use changes and projects such as the pedestrianization of University Avenue,
which is identified in the comprehensive plan as a vision to consider.

Modified Deep Bore Tunnel
The AECOM team had begun initial evaluations of the citywide deep bore tunnel concept before being
redirected to prioritize the development of alternatives for Meadow Avenue and Charleston Road
crossings. By that time, however, they had identified a number of key constraints, such as the cost and
physical limitations of station impacts at the Caltrain Palo Alto (University Avenue) and California
Avenue stations, the location and property impacts of bore pits in north and south Palo Alto, and
property impacts for shoofly construction-period rail realignments.

As noted above, the Rail Committee directed staff to bring back information to further evaluate an
alternative involving a south Palo Alto deep bore tunnel for passenger rail only with freight trains at
surface level. This variation raises some of the same issues as a deep bore tunnel for both passenger and
freight rail, while potentially avoiding station impacts. While recognizing significant issues with either
concept, staff notes that City Council direction on December 17, 2018 to modify the deep bore tunnel to
South Palo Alto only (south of California Avenue) would facilitate this evaluation.

All letters to Council about rail grade separation received between late September and early December
2018 are included with this report in Attachment G.

Policy Implications
Connecting Palo Alto is consistent with the following Comprehensive Plan 2030 goals, policies, and
programs:

         Policy L-1.7: Use coordinated area plans to guide development, such as to create or enhance
         cohesive neighborhoods in areas of Palo Alto where significant change is foreseeable. Address
         both land use and transportation, define the desired character and urban design traits of the
         areas, identify opportunities for public open space, parks and recreational opportunities,
         address connectivity to and compatibility with adjacent residential areas; and include broad
         community involvement in the planning process.

         Program L4.8.1: Prepare a Coordinated Area Plan for Downtown.

         Policy L-9.7 Strengthen the identity of important community-wide gateways, including the
         entrances to the City at Highway 101, El Camino Real and Middlefield Road; the Caltrain
         stations; entries to commercial districts; Embarcadero Road at El Camino Real and between Palo
         Alto and Stanford.

         Program T1.11.1: Collaborate with Stanford University, VTA, Caltrain and other agencies to
         pursue improvements to the Palo Alto Transit Center area aimed at enhancing the pedestrian
         experience and improving circulation and access for all modes, including direct access to El
         Camino Real for transit vehicles.




City of Palo Alto                                                                                 Page 10
         Policy T-1.25: Pursue transportation funding opportunities for ongoing transportation
         improvements that will help mitigate the impacts of future development and protect residents’
         quality of life. When other sources are unavailable, continue to fund improvements, operations
         and maintenance through the general fund.

         Policy T-1.26: Collaborate with adjacent communities to ensure that Palo Alto and its immediate
         neighbors receive their fair share of regional transportation funds, proportional to the need and
         demand for transportation improvements within these communities to address region-wide
         transportation issues.

         Program T1.26.1: In collaboration with regional agencies and neighboring jurisdictions, identify
         and pursue funding for rail corridor improvements and grade separation.

         Policy T-3.15: Pursue grade separation of rail crossings along the rail corridor as a City priority.

         Program T3.15.1: Undertake studies and outreach necessary to advance grade separation of
         Caltrain to become a “shovel ready” project and strongly advocate for adequate State, regional
         and federal funding for design and construction of railroad grade separations.

         Program T3.15.2: Conduct a study to evaluate the implications of grade separation on bicycle
         and pedestrian circulation.

         Policy T-3.18: Improve safety and minimize adverse noise, vibrations and visual impacts of
         operations in the Caltrain rail corridor on adjoining districts, public facilities, schools and
         neighborhoods with or without the addition of High-Speed Rail.

Resource Impact
Funding for grade separation alternatives evaluation is included in the Fiscal Year 2019 Adopted Capital
Budget in CIP PL-17001, Railroad Grade Separation.

Environmental Review
The proposed action is part of a planning study for a possible future action, which has not been
approved, adopted, or funded and is therefore exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act
(CEQA) in accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15262. The future decision to approve construction
of any one of the identified potential alternatives would be subject to CEQA and require preparation of
an environmental analysis.
Attachments:
   • Attachment A-List of Meetings Held
   • Attachment B-Palo Alto Letter to Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board (Caltrain)
   • Attachment C-Water District Letter to Palo Alto
   • Attachment D-AECOM Meadow and Charleston Alternatives Memos
   • Attachment E-Project Plans
   • Attachment F-Palo Alto Ave University Problem Statement 121018
   • Attachment G- Letters to Council Regarding Rail Grade Separation- Sept-Dec. 2018



City of Palo Alto                                                                                      Page 11
Attachment A: Summary of Key Meetings Held Related to Grade Separation Project

List of Engagement Meetings: In addition to all of the meetings mentioned in the staff report,
the following meetings have occurred related to Palo Alto’s Rail Grade Separation:

Community Meetings
   • August 23, 2018 – focused on getting feedback on progress to date.
   • November 28, 2018 – focused on the Meadow and Charleston alternatives with 3D visuals
     of each; early conversation about traffic study and financing options.
   • Upcoming: January 23, 2019 – will focus on Palo Alto Ave., Churchill Ave., and the citywide
     Tunnel alternatives with 3D visuals and follow up traffic and financing information.

Rail Committee Meetings
    • April 18, 2018
    • June 13, 2018
    • August 15, 2018
    • September 26, 2018
    • October 17, 2018
    • November 14, 2018
    • November 27, 2018

Community Advisory Panel (CAP) Meetings
   • August 15, 2018
   • September 17, 2018
   • October 10, 2018
   • November 7, 2018
   • December 12, 2018
   • Upcoming: January 9, 2019

Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) Meetings
   • November 5, 2018
   • December 10, 2018

Stakeholder Meetings
   • Santa Clara Valley Water District
   • Caltrain
   • Safe Routes to School (community partners and City staff)

Upcoming City Council Meetings
   • December 17, 2018
   • February 2019


Screening Criteria & CAP review
   • CAP input to focus each community meeting by location
Attachment B-Letter to Caltrain
Attachment C - Santa Clara Valley Water District Letter to Palo Alto
ENCLOSURE




Connecting Palo Alto
Follow-Up questionnaire to SCVWD & Hyperlinks to Grade Separation Design Options

    1. What are the key regulations that apply to lowering or covering an existing creek corridor?

There are four creeks that are crossed by the Caltrain corridor (owned in fee title by the Peninsula
Corridor Joint Powers Board) being analyzed for grade separation. The District has no right of way at the
San Francisquito Creek crossing. The District has easement at the Matadero Creek, Barron Creek, and
Adobe Creek crossings. Modifications to creeks where the District has easement will require a District
Water Resources Protection Ordinance encroachment permit. Prior to issuance of a District
encroachment permit to lower or cover an existing creek, the District must make the findings defined in
Section 2.3.3A of the Water Resources Protection Ordinance, which may be found here:
https://www.valleywater.org/sites/default/files/WRPO.pdf

    2. What other regulatory agencies have oversight of creeks, such as the RWQCB and Army Corps of
       Engineers?

Lowering or covering any of the four creeks will require regulatory approval from other agencies,
including but not limited to California State Department of Fish and Wildlife, San Francisco Bay Regional
Water Quality Control Board and the US Army Corps of Engineers. Additionally, in areas within a FEMA
floodplain, the City’s floodplain administrator must follow National Flood Insurance Program regulations
to demonstrate the project will not adversely affect the risk of flooding or follow the process to modify
the floodplain limits.

    3. Have syphons or other engineering solutions been used to redirect creek corridors for projects
       of similar magnitude?

District staff does not recall an instance where a creek corridor has been placed in siphons to
accommodate an infrastructure crossing (i.e. highway, road, utility, rail, etc.) or for any other reason.
The infrastructure crossings of creeks in Santa Clara County involve crossings over the top of the creek
via a bridge or culvert structure. Any creek modification will need to provide the same conveyance
capacity as existing conditions, provide equivalent District maintenance requirements as the existing
condition and not increase District maintenance costs, be functional during all flow events with
sediment and debris loading, allow fish passage, be designed to not increase the potential for flooding
or adversely impact existing flooding conditions, and be permitted by various regulatory agencies
(depending on the proposed creek modification). Additionally, a siphon design will need to address
flooding impacts which may result from sediment, debris loads, and blockages at or in the siphon during
high flow events.

    4. Can SCVWD remove sediment in the creek?
          • Does SCVWD have an existing permit for this type of maintenance? If yes, are there
              restrictions?




                                               Page 1 of 3
The District has several permits to remove sediment from creeks in accordance with our Stream
Maintenance Program (SMP). Information on our SMP, including our permits to conduct the program,
can be found on our website at: https://www.valleywater.org/flooding-safety/stream-maintenance-
program The SMP and our regulatory permits have several limitations, including how much sediment
can be removed, where it can be removed, when it can be removed, mitigation requirements, etc. A
siphon design will have to consider equipment access and address working in confined spaces in order
to remove sediment.

    5. What are the historic flows within Matadero, Barron, and Adobe creeks?
         • Has there been historic flooding in these creeks? If so, when?
         • What are the ordinary high water elevations at Alma Street?

Please see attached exhibit for recorded historic flooding limits (excluding the flooding limits from the
Christmas flood of 1955 prior to District flood protection improvements on each channel) on Matadero,
Barron, and Adobe creeks. Also, on the exhibit is a table of flows and corresponding water surface
elevations on each creek at a point just upstream of the Caltrain crossing for the 100-year flow and
“ordinary flow” or 2.33-year event. The District has completed improvements on each of the three
creeks to provide 100-year flood protection in areas that include the Caltrain crossing.

    6. Who owns the Matadero, Barron, Adobe, and San Francisquito creek right-of-way?
         • Is flood control also in the SCVWD jurisdiction?

See answer to Question 1 on District right of way at the crossings owned in fee title by the Peninsula
Corridor Joint Powers Board. In accordance with the District Act
(https://www.valleywater.org/sites/default/files/Santa%20Clara%20Valley%20Water%20District%20-
%20District%20Act.pdf ), the District provides flood protection to Santa Clara County, in addition to
providing wholesale water supply and advancing stream stewardship.

Hyperlinks to Remaining Design Options
   1. Citywide Tunnel: https://pagradesep.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/08/Citywide-Tunnel-WBP-
        Profile.pdf
   2. Meadow Drive & Charleston Road Hybrid: https://pagradesep.com/wp-
        content/uploads/2018/08/Meadow-Dr-Charleston-Rd-Hybrid-MCL.pdf
   3. Meadow Drive & Charleston Road Viaduct & Full Trench: https://pagradesep.com/wp-
        content/uploads/2018/08/Meadow-Dr-Charleston-Rd-Viaduct-Full-Trench-MCV-MCT.pdf
   4. Palo Alto Avenue Hybrid: https://pagradesep.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/08/Palo-Alto-Ave-
        Hybrid-PAH.pdf




                                               Page 2 of 3
    Recorded Historical Flooding on Adobe, Matadero, & Barron Creeks




                                                                                                                                       k
                                                                                                                                    ee
                                                                                                                                  Cr
                                                                                                                             on




                                                                                  k
                                                                                ee
                                                                                                                           rr
                                                                                                                         Ba




                                                                           Cr
                                                                            o
                                                                         er
                                                                      ad
                                                                    at
                                                                   M
                                                                                                                                                         k
                                                                                                                                                      ree
                                                                                                                                                 eC
                                                                                                                                               ob
                                                                                                                                             Ad




             St
                                                           l
                                                         ne




               an
                  fo
                                                       an




                       rd
                                                     Ch




                          Ch
                            an
                                                  ss




                              ne
                                l
                                                pa
                                              By
                                               o
                                            er
                                        tad
                                     Ma


                                                   Barr
                                                    on D
                                                      ivers
                                                          ion
                                                              C
                                                            han
                                                               n
                                                              el
            ek
    Deer Cre




                                                                                                                                                         Legend
                                                                                                                                                                                 Hale Creek




                                                                                                                                                               Creek Route
                                                                                                                                                               1982 Flooding
                                                                                                                                                               1983 Flooding
0        1,150               2,300    4,600                                                                                                                    1995 Flooding
                                         Feet

                                                                                                             k
                                                                                                      a CreeDeLorme, Intermap, increment P Corp., GEBCO, USGS, FAO, NPS, NRCAN,
                                                                                     Sources:Purissim
                                                                                              Esri, HERE,
                                                                                     GeoBase, IGN, Kadaster NL, Ordnance Survey, Esri Japan, METI, Esri China (Hong Kong), swisstopo,
                                                                                     MapmyIndia, © OpenStreetMap contributors, and the GIS User Community
                                                                                Page 3 of 3
Attachment D - Memos from AECOM Regarding Meadow and Charleston Crossings

                                                                                        AECOM
                                                                                        300 Lakeside Drive
                                                                                        Suite 400
                                                                                        Oakland
                                                                                        CA 94612
                                                                                        aecom.com

                                                                                        Project name:
                                                                                        Palo Alto Rail Program Management Services

                                                                                        Project ref:
 To:                                                                                    60577356
 Robert De Geus
 City of Palo Alto                                                                      From:
 City Manager’s Office                                                                  Etty Mercurio
 250 Hamilton Avenue
 Palo Alto, CA 94301                                                                    Date:
                                                                                        December 13, 2018

 CC:
 Millette Litzinger, AECOM
 John Maher, AECOM




 Memo
 Subject: Narrative Description for the Meadow Drive and Charleston Road Trench (MCT) Alternative

 The following is based on a conceptual engineering evaluation and is intended for discussion purposes only.



 Meadow Drive and Charleston Road Trench (MCT)
 This narrative describes the railroad and roadway geometry required to lower the railroad tracks in a trench under Meadow
 Drive and Charleston Road. At the end of the narrative is a listing of an initial assessment of potential impacts associated
 with this alternative.

 Railroad Description during Construction Phase: Temporary tracks (also referred to as a shoofly) are required to bypass
 the existing/permanent tracks and structures in order to maintain rail service during construction. The temporary tracks will be
 constructed on the east side of the existing tracks. Starting at the north end and travelling south, the tracks will swing
 eastward starting around Loma Verde Avenue, run parallel to the existing tracks and Alma Street and then swing back
 westward into the existing tracks near Ferne Avenue about 600 feet before the north end of the San Antonio Caltrain Station
 platform. An existing track crossover located within this 600 feet (before San Antonio Station) would need to be relocated.
 The shoofly will be constructed to the same elevation (grade) as the existing track for the entire length between Loma Verde
 Avenue and Ferne Avenue. The temporary tracks will not encroach onto Alma Street between intersections, but they will
 encroach approximately 20 feet into Alma Street at its intersections with Meadow Drive and Charleston Road with the
 southbound right turning lanes eliminated during construction; however, the turning movements will still be allowed.

 The total length of temporary track is approximately 8,400 feet. The temporary track would also have an overhead catenary
 system for train electrification. The temporary tracks are designed with the required safety and construction clearances and
 for a maximum speed of 75 mph. Railroad protection devices would be provided at the temporary track grade crossings at
 Meadow and Charleston and would include standard vehicle and pedestrian/bicycle gates, flashing warning lights, and bells.

 Railroad Description Post-Construction: The proposed mainline vertical alignments (profiles) are controlled by the
 required length of vertical curves, length of tangents between curves and the overall length of new track that can be built
 once the temporary track is offset 25 feet from the new track. The permanent horizontal alignment will match the existing
 track. At Meadow and Charleston crossings, the trench will be a minimum depth of 29.5 feet from the top-of-rail elevation to
 the roadway surface. This assumes a 24.5-foot clearance to the bottom surface of the bridge and an assumed 5-foot bridge
 structure depth. A 2% grade will be required to achieve the 29.5-foot depth (it should be noted that Caltrain design criteria
 specifies a 1% maximum grade and that grades exceeding 1% would require a design exception approval from Caltrain on a
 case-by-case basis for new construction). The permanent tracks would begin descending into a trench 900 feet south of
 Loma Verde Ave and continue at a depth of approximately 30 feet crossing under Meadow and Charleston and then rising at




                                                                                                                                1 of 3
Memo – Narrative Description for Meadow Drive and Charleston Road Trench (MCT) Alternative



2% to meet the existing Caltrain tracks 1,200 feet north of the San Antonio Station. The total length of mainline construction
is 6,300 feet.

Roadway Description: The roadways at Meadow Drive and Charleston Road would have the same configuration that exists
today once construction is completed with some minor adjustments. However, during construction of the roadway bridges
over the proposed trench, Meadow Drive would be closed to all traffic (vehicles, pedestrian and bicycles) while the roadway
structure is constructed over the trench at Charleston Road. Once the Meadow structure is completed, Charleston Road
would be closed to all traffic and the Charleston structure would be completed.

Class II Buffered Bike Lanes will be provided on Charleston Road, which is consistent with the Charleston-Arastradero
Corridor Project.
Drainage Description: The preliminary trench alignment and elevations would obstruct the passage of Adobe Creek and
Barron Creek. In order to maintain the existing drainage pattern of the creeks a culvert that consists of an inverted siphon
and a pump/lift station would be required at both crossings. The inverted siphon would conceptually consist of a drop
structure at the upstream end of the creek that would capture the flow from the creek and would drop to an elevation that is
under the proposed trench elevation plus the required cover depth. The culvert would then convey the flow to the
downstream end of the creek at a minimal slope. Once the trench section has been cleared, an additional drop structure
would be constructed at the downstream end of the culvert. The downstream drop structure would discharge into the existing
creek. A significant amount of flow could pass through the inverted siphon through the pressure of the hydraulic grade.
However, for large storm events and for maintenance purposes, a pump/lift station would be required on the downstream end
of the inverted siphon to increase capacity and to remove standing water from the siphon low point. The location of the
pump/lift stations has not yet been determined.

A pump/lift station that would convey the necessary flow rates to mitigate any increases in water surface elevation upstream
during large storm events would be significant and would require continuous maintenance and a reliable energy source. A
major risk would be potential upstream flooding if the pump/lift station were to fail during a large storm event. Similar designs
have been implemented before, but not on the scale that would be required for this project, which would require a full creek
diversion with 100-year flow rates greater than 2,500 cubic feet per second (cfs). Due to this, the regulatory risks and
challenges are difficult to estimate. There are several regulatory authorities that would need to review and approve the
proposed design including FEMA, Santa Clara Valley Water District, United States Army Corps of Engineers, and California
Fish and Wildlife.

In addition, a pump station for groundwater seepage and for stormwater removal within the trench will be required at Meadow
Drive and Charleston Road. Properties will need to be identified and acquired to accommodate a pumping plant for each
location.
Initial Assessment of Potential Impacts:

•    Removal of all existing trees in the buffer between Alma Street and the mainline tracks (east side) to construct the
     temporary double tracks and maintain the Caltrain revenue service.

•    To accommodate the temporary tracks, the width of Alma Street will be temporarily reduced approximately 20 feet at the
     intersections of Meadow Drive and Charleston Road where there are turning lanes – there would be no dedicated right-
     turning lanes from Alma Street during construction.

•    Easements will be required for a ground anchor system to support deep trench retaining walls. The ground anchor
     system will encroach below Alma Street and below backyards west of the Caltrain right-of-way. Buildings and
     landscaping will be restricted within easements. Plants with large root systems such as trees will not be permitted as
     they can impact the structural integrity of the ground anchor systems.

•    Utility relocations are required at the Meadow Drive and Charleston Road roadway crossings.

•    Construction will close Meadow Drive and Charleston Road when erecting bridge structures over the trench impacting
     automobile, pedestrian and bicycle traffic. At least one crossing will remain open during construction.

•    Fire protection measures will be required in the trench that will require standpipes and fire department hose
     connections.




AECOM
                                                                                                                            2 of 3
Memo – Narrative Description for Meadow Drive and Charleston Road Trench (MCT) Alternative



•    Emergency egress locations, from inside the trench, will be required that may require additional right-of-way.

•    High fencing will be required along trench walls for safety to protect high-voltage lines.

•    The trench will obstruct Adobe Creek and Barron Creek, requiring inverted siphons to pass the stormwater under the
     trench. There are no inverted syphons within Santa Clara Valley Water District’s system. These types of systems have
     high maintenance issues/costs and can be prone to blockage with sediment with potential to cause upstream flooding.

•    Modification to Adobe and Barron Creeks will require approval from regulatory agencies including FEMA, the Santa
     Clara Valley Water District, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and California Fish and Wildlife.

•    The trench will require a pump station for groundwater seepage and for stormwater removal. Property will need to be
     identified and acquired for pumping plant.

•    Design exception approval required from Caltrain for 2% grade.

•    Train horn noise and warning bells will be eliminated with the replacement of the at-grade crossings with grade
     separations. In the trench, noise could reflect off the walls and impact properties further away; however, this can be
     mitigated.




AECOM
                                                                                                                              3 of 3
                                                                                        AECOM
                                                                                        300 Lakeside Drive, Suite 400
                                                                                        Oakland, CA 94612
                                                                                        aecom.com

To:                                                                                     Project name:
Robert De Geus                                                                          Palo Alto Rail Program Management Services
City of Palo Alto
City Manager’s Office                                                                   Project ref:
                                                                                        60577356
250 Hamilton Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94301
                                                                                        From:
                                                                                        Etty Mercurio
CC:
                                                                                        Date:
Millette Litzinger, AECOM
                                                                                        December 13, 2018
John Maher, AECOM




Memorandum
Subject: Narrative Description for the Meadow Drive and Charleston Road Viaduct (MCV) Alternative

The following is based on a conceptual engineering evaluation and is intended for discussion purposes only.



Meadow Drive and Charleston Road Viaduct (MCV)
This narrative describes the railroad and roadway geometry required to raise the railroad tracks in a viaduct over Meadow
Drive and Charleston Road. At the end of the narrative is a listing of an initial assessment of potential impacts associated
with this alternative.

Railroad Description during Construction Phase: The existing tracks will remain in service during construction. New
tracks, the viaduct and an overhead catenary system for train electrification, will be constructed between the existing tracks
and Alma Street. An existing track crossover located north of the San Antonio Caltrain Station will be relocated. Upon
completion of the new tracks and viaduct, the existing tracks and the railroad crossing gates and warning lights at Meadow
Drive and Charleston Road will be removed.

Railroad Description Post-Construction: The new tracks and viaduct will be located between the existing tracks and Alma
Street. Starting at the north end and travelling south, the tracks would swing eastward beginning at a point 400 feet north of
Loma Verde Avenue, run parallel to the existing tracks and Alma Street and then swing back westward into the existing tracks
500 feet south of Ferne Avenue. The tracks will encroach into Alma Street approximately two feet for the portions north of
Meadow Drive and south of Charleston Road, resulting in reduced lane widths on Alma Street. There will be no
encroachment between Meadow Drive and Charleston Road. The total length of the new track is 8,400 feet and is designed
for 110 mph.

The proposed mainline vertical alignments (profiles) are controlled by the required length of vertical curves, length of
tangents between curves and the overall length of new track that can be built once the temporary track is offset 25 feet from
the new track. At the Meadow Drive and Charleston Road crossings, the viaduct top-of-rail elevation will be a minimum of
20.5 feet above the existing roadway. This assumes a 15.5-foot vertical clearance from the roadway surface to the underside
of a bridge structure and an assumed 5-foot bridge structure depth. The new tracks will begin rising 700 feet south of Loma
Verde Avenue at a 1.0% grade. They will be on retained fill for approximately 700 feet and then continue on the viaduct
structure over Meadow Drive, stay on an elevated viaduct structure over Charleston Road, and then descend at 1.4% (it
should be noted that Caltrain design criteria specifies a 1% maximum grade and that grades exceeding 1% would require a
design exception approval from Caltrain on a case-by-case basis for new construction). The viaduct will end at a point 600
feet south of Charleston where the tracks will again be on retained fill for approximately 500 feet. The total length of retained
fill is 1,200 feet. The total length of viaduct is 4,200 feet.




                                                                                                                                1 of 2
Memo – Narrative Description - Grade Separate Meadow Drive and Charleston Road Viaduct (MCV) Alternative



Roadway Description: The roadways at Meadow Drive and Charleston Road will have the same configuration that exists
today or match what is proposed/under construction for these roadways currently. During construction, falsework (scaffolding)
will be constructed above Meadow Drive and Charleston Road to allow motor vehicles, pedestrians and bicyclists to continue
to use these roads without disruption during weekdays. Falsework construction will require either weekend or night-time
closures to erect (assemble) and to take down (disassemble) the falsework.

Class II Buffered Bike Lanes will be provided on Charleston Road, which is consistent with the Charleston-Arastradero
Corridor Project. This will require expanding the width of the road to maintain bike lanes through the underpass of the railroad
to accommodate the new column to supporting the railroad structure. There appears to be sufficient space to accommodate
this width and, ideally this could be provided as a Class IV separated bikeway given the change in vehicle lanes at the
column location.

Initial Assessment of Potential Impacts:

•    Removal of all existing landscaping, including trees, in the buffer area between Alma Street and the existing tracks in
     order to construct the new tracks.

•    To accommodate the new tracks, the width of Alma Street will be reduced approximately two feet for the portions north
     of Meadow Drive and south of Charleston Road, resulting in reduced lane widths on Alma Street. There will be no
     encroachment between Meadow and Charleston.

•    The tracks will encroach into Alma Street approximately two feet for the portions north of Meadow Drive and south of
     Charleston Road, resulting in reduced lanes on Alma Street. There will be no encroachment between Meadow Drive
     and Charleston Road.

•    No private property impacts.

•    No impacts to existing creeks.

•    Minor utility impacts.

•    Visual impacts with the elevated structure.

•    Train horn noise and warning bells will be eliminated with the replacement of the at-grade crossings with grade
     separations. With the elevated track, train wheel noise could radiate out, however, this can be mitigated.

•    Construction will require falsework over roadways at Meadow Drive and Charleston Road, but access for all modes will
     be maintained at most times.

•    Design exception approval required from Caltrain for 1.4% grade.

•    Opportunity for landscaping upon construction completion between new tracks and properties to the west.




AECOM
                                                                                                                          2 of 2
                                                                                        AECOM
                                                                                        300 Lakeside Drive, Suite 400
                                                                                        Oakland, CA 94612
                                                                                        aecom.com

To:                                                                                     Project name:
Robert De Geus                                                                          Palo Alto Rail Program Management Services
City of Palo Alto
City Manager’s Office                                                                   Project ref:
                                                                                        60577356
250 Hamilton Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94301
                                                                                        From:
                                                                                        Etty Mercurio
CC:
                                                                                        Date:
Millette Litzinger, AECOM
                                                                                        December 13, 2018
John Maher, AECOM




Memorandum
Subject: Narrative Description for the Meadow Drive and Charleston Road Hybrid (MCL) Alternative

The following is based on a conceptual engineering evaluation and is intended for discussion purposes only.



Meadow Drive and Charleston Road Hybrid (MCL)
This narrative describes the railroad and roadway geometry required to raise the railroad tracks and lower the roadways at
Meadow Drive and Charleston Road. At the end of the narrative is a listing of an initial assessment of potential impacts
associated with this alternative.

Railroad Description during Construction Phase: Temporary railroad tracks (also referred to as a shoofly) are required to
bypass the existing/permanent tracks and structures in order to maintain rail service during construction. The temporary
tracks will be constructed on the east side of the existing tracks. Starting at the north end and traveling south, the tracks will
swing eastward starting 350 feet south of Loma Verde Avenue, run parallel to the existing tracks and Alma Street and then
swing back westward into the existing tracks 250 feet north of Ferne Avenue. The shoofly will be constructed to the same
elevation (grade) as the existing track for the entire length between Loma Verde and Ferne Avenue. The temporary tracks will
not encroach onto Alma Street between intersections, but they will encroach approximately 20 feet onto Alma Street at its
intersections with Meadow Drive and Charleston Road with southbound right turning lanes eliminated during construction;
however, the turning movements will still be allowed. Vertical clearance under Meadow Drive and Charleston Road would be
temporarily limited to 12 feet during construction, which will require a design exception from Caltrain.
The total length of temporary track is approximately 6,400 feet. The temporary track would also have an overhead catenary
system for train electrification. The temporary tracks are designed with the required safety and construction clearances and
for a maximum speed of 75 mph. Standard railroad protection devices would be provided at the temporary track grade
crossings, including vehicle and pedestrian gates, warning lights, and bells.

Railroad Description Post-Construction: The proposed mainline vertical alignments (profiles) are controlled by the
required length of vertical curves, length of tangents between curves and the overall length of new track that can be built
once the temporary track is offset 25 feet from the new track. The permanent horizontal railroad alignment will match the
existing track. The permanent track will rise near El Verano Avenue at a grade of 1.0% on retained fill into a 350-foot long
vertical curve over Meadow Drive. This places the top-of-rail 14 feet above the existing Meadow Drive roadway elevation. It
continues at a slope of 0.4% into a 760-foot long vertical curve over Charleston Road. This places the top-of-rail 14 feet
above the existing Charleston Road roadway elevation. The track then descends at a 1% grade on retained fill to meet the
existing mainline track 1,150 feet north of Ferne Avenue. The Meadow Drive and Charleston Road roadways will be lowered
to provide a minimum 15.5-foot vertical clearance between the road surface and the bottom of the rail bridge structure. The
total length of mainline construction is 5,000 feet.




                                                                                                                                1 of 2
Memo – Narrative Description for the Meadow Drive and Charleston Road Hybrid (MCL) Alternative



Roadway Description: Between Park Boulevard and Alma Street, Meadow Drive will be lowered at a maximum grade of
5%. Beginning at Park Boulevard to the west, it will be lowered a maximum of seven feet from existing grade below the
railroad tracks and then it will rise to meet the existing grade approximately 170 feet east of Alma Street. The total length of
roadway impacted on Meadow Drive is 460 feet. The total length of roadway impacted on Alma Street 680 feet, 280 feet to
the north and 400 feet to the south of Meadow Drive. Alma Street will be lowered a maximum of four feet from the existing
grade to maintain the existing intersection with Meadow Drive. The maximum grade on Alma Street will be 1.5%. The design
speed for Meadow Drive is 25 MPH and 35 MPH for Alma Street.

Between Park Boulevard and Alma Street, Charleston Road will be lowered at a maximum grade of 5%. Beginning at Park
Boulevard to the west, it will be lowered a maximum of seven feet from the existing grade below the railroad tracks and then
it will rise to meet the existing grade approximately 190 feet east of Alma Street. The total length of roadway impacted on
Charleston Road is 530 feet. The total length of roadway impacted on Alma Street is 540 feet, 270 feet to the north and 270
feet to the south of Charleston Road. Alma Street will be lowered a maximum of 4 feet from the existing grade to maintain the
existing intersection with Charleston Road. The maximum grade on Alma Street will be 2.0%. The design speed on
Charleston Road is 25 MPH and 35 MPH on Alma Street.

Class II Buffered Bike Lanes will be provided on Charleston Road, which is consistent with the Charleston-Arastradero
Corridor Project. This will require expanding the width of the road to maintain bike lanes through the underpass of the railroad
to accommodate the new column to support the railroad structure. There appears to be sufficient space to accommodate this
width and, ideally this could be provided as a Class IV separated bikeway given the shift in vehicle lanes at the column
location.
Drainage Description: A pump station for groundwater seepage and for stormwater removal may be required between
Meadow Drive and Charleston Road. Properties will need to be identified and acquired to accommodate a pumping plant at
each location.

Initial Assessment of Potential Impacts:

•    Removal of the existing trees in the buffer area between Alma Street and the existing tracks to construct the temporary
     tracks (shoofly) in order to maintain Caltrain service during construction.

•    During construction the width of Alma Street will be temporarily reduced approximately 20 feet at the intersections of
     Meadow Drive and Charleston Road to accommodate the temporary tracks. There would be no dedicated right-turn
     lanes from Alma Street, but all turns would be permitted.

•    Property impacts are relatively minor (driveway modifications only).

•    Major utility relocations for utilities located in Alma Street, Meadow Drive and Charleston Road are required to
     accommodate the excavation for the lowered roadways.

•    A pump station may be required for each of the lowered roadways (to pump surface runoff from lowered roadways).
     Properties will need to be identified and acquired to accommodate a pumping plant at each location.

•    Visual impacts with elevated railroad embankment.

•    Train horn noise and warning bells will be eliminated with the replacement of the at-grade crossings with grade
     separations. With the elevated track, train wheel noise could radiate out, however, this can be mitigated. During
     construction, one lane in each direction would be closed on portions of Alma Street, Meadow Drive, and Charleston
     Road to permit excavation at the undercrossings.

•    Grade changes on Charleston Road will increase challenges for bicyclists, especially less confident bicyclists, and may
     create challenges for passing.

•    Design exception approval required from Caltrain for temporary roadway vertical clearance of 12 feet during
     construction for both Meadow and Charleston.




AECOM
                                                                                                                            2 of 2
                                       Attachment E


Conceptual Project Plans & 3D Animations for Meadow Drive & Charleston Road Alternatives

Conceptual plans are available to the public online and by visiting the Planning and Community
      Environmental Department on the 5th floor of City Hall at 250 Hamilton Avenue.
                          Directions to review Project plans online:

              1. Go to: https://pagradesep.com/community-engagement/
              2. Scroll to the bottom of the page and locate the section entitled: “Community
                 Meeting, November 28, 2018”
              3. Click on the desired document

                            Direct Link to Plans & 3D Animations:

MCL   MEADOW DR. & CHARLESTON RD. | Hybrid
      Meadow Drive and Charleston Road railroad over roadway hybrid and build Loma Verde Avenue
      bike/pedestrian crossing to connect to Margarita Avenue bicycle boulevard

                               3D Animation | Conceptual Plans

MCT   MEADOW DR. & CHARLESTON RD. | Rail Trench or Tunnel
      Meadow Drive and Charleston Road roadway over railroad trench or tunnel Alma street would
      not be within trench or tunnel (maintains Alma Street connections to Meadow Drive and
      Charleston Road) with Alma Street in its existing alignment or a new alignment;

                               3D Animation | Conceptual Plans

MCV   MEADOW DR. & CHARLESTON RD. | Viaduct
      Meadow Drive and Charleston Road railroad over roadway viaduct.

                               3D Animation | Conceptual Plans
Attachment F: Palo Alto Avenue Problem Statement


                     Palo Alto Avenue/University Avenue/Palo Alto Caltrain Station

                          Transportation/Land Use Planning Problem Statement



As part of its citywide Connecting Palo Alto effort to ensure safety and community compatibility of the
Caltrain corridor, the City of Palo Alto is evaluating a range of options for improving the existing rail/street
crossing at Palo Alto Avenue. Based on the analysis completed to date, it has become increasingly clear
that factors, such as engineering constraints, land use plans and urban design, and access needs, affecting
design options as part of the Downtown University Avenue vicinity require a more comprehensive
planning effort. Such an effort for this location needs to be separated from the current citywide grade
separation planning project.

Location

The existing crossing of the Caltrain tracks at Palo Alto Avenue is one of the four at-grade crossings being
evaluated for possible grade separation. This crossing is also referred to by various landmarks, including
the Palo Alto/Menlo Park city limit, Palo Alto Avenue, El Camino Real, San Francisquito Creek, and historic
landmarks of the El Palo Alto namesake tree and trestle bridge. The evaluation of grade separation
alternatives and potential property impacts highlighted the interdependency of options at this location
and University Avenue (located less than 2,000 feet from Palo Alto Avenue). University Avenue is grade
separated from Caltrain and is the location of Caltrain’s “Palo Alto” Station (which is the second-busiest
Caltrain station after San Francisco’s Fourth and King Station).



Transportation Context

Major arterial streets in the area reflect the high activity level of the Downtown Palo Alto/Stanford
University interface, with Alma Street (south of the Caltrain Station) carrying 29,000 vehicles per day,
University Avenue carrying 12,000
vehicles per day, Lytton Avenue
carrying 11,000 vehicles per day,
Hamilton Avenue carrying 8,000
vehicles per day, Palo Alto Avenue
(west of Alma Street) carrying
13,000 vehicles per day, and El
Camino Real carrying 36,000
vehicles per day. Palo Alto Avenue
is a key connection between El
Camino Real and Downtown Palo
Alto given the concentration of
multimodal activity at University
Avenue.

The Palo Alto Caltrain Station
services the second highest volume
of riders on system, following the San Francisco Station and roughly 50% higher than the San Jose Diridon
Station. The University Avenue transit station also serves VTA, SamTrans, AC Transit, and Stanford
Marguerite buses. Pedestrian and bicycle access to the Caltrain station as well as between Downtown
and Stanford is highly constrained.



Land use Context

The Palo Alto Avenue and University Avenue vicinity (downtown area) is distinct from the other existing
Palo Alto at-grade crossings given the activity level as a bustling downtown area and the interface
between Downtown Palo Alto and Stanford University. The County of Santa Clara is currently considering
an application for proposed development (General Use Permit, or “GUP”) from Stanford University for up
to 2.275 million square feet of academic and support facilities and 3,150 net new housing units/beds. This
GUP application is currently undergoing environmental review.

Narrow parcels located between Alma Street and the Caltrain tracks are currently developed with surface
parking. Larger parcels located between Caltrain and El Camino Real are currently developed with the
transit center north of University Avenue and a Sheraton Hotel south of University Avenue.



Recommended Planning Approach

The complexity of transportation and land use interfaces suggest that planning for this vicinity requires
evaluation of issues beyond the scope of “simple” grade separation alternatives analysis. In order to
continue progress on the evaluation of grade crossing options at Churchill, Meadow, and Charleston, the
City would remove Palo Alto Avenue from the ongoing “Connecting Palo Alto” work effort and begin
scoping an independent planning effort to address Downtown issues.

The City of Palo Alto uses a planning process known as a Coordinated Area Plan to guide land use and
transportation alternatives evaluation, as well as community and stakeholder engagement. Planning for
this vicinity would presumably also need to address forecasted ridership increases at the Caltrain Palo
Alto Station. This is especially important given growth at Stanford University, as well as potential
development of properties located between Alma Street and El Camino Real.

This recommendation is in alignment with the Palo Alto Comprehensive Plan regarding University Avenue
and Downtown. The specific policy areas include:

Policy L-4.7 Maintain and enhance the University Avenue/Downtown area as a major commercial center
of the City, with a mix of commercial, civic, cultural, recreational and residential uses. Promote quality
design that recognizes the regional and historical importance of the area and reinforces its pedestrian
character.

Policy L-4.8 Ensure that University Avenue/Downtown is pedestrian-friendly and supports bicycle use. Use
public art, trees, bicycle racks and other amenities to create an environment that is inviting to pedestrians
and bicyclists.

Program L4.8.1 Prepare a Coordinated Area Plan for Downtown.


                                                                                                           2
Program L4.8.2 Study the feasibility of converting parts of University Avenue to a pedestrian zone.



Financial Considerations

There are two current issues related to funding. The first is the availability and application Santa Clara
County Measure B funds. The Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority (VTA) recently began discussion
of their approach to implementation of voter-approved funding for Caltrain grade separations in Palo Alto,
Mountain View, and Sunnyvale. While this program approach is not yet active given pending Measure B
litigation, VTA staff has suggested an approach that emphasizes the need to set priorities among
prospective grade separation projects, potentially setting up a competition among the cities for funding.
This reinforces the importance of Palo Alto positioning projects as “ready to go” as quickly as possible.
The greatest opportunities to finalize locally preferred alternatives are at the Churchill, Meadow, and
Charleston crossings. The costs for these crossings alone will likely exceed funding available through
Measure B and ensure Palo Alto remains in position for use of Measure B funds.

The second issue is funding of the anticipated planning effort and ultimately construction of any
recommendations developed for improving Downtown circulation. Upon approval of the recommended
approach, staff will pursue external funding for a coordinated area planning effort. As the interface
between transportation and land use is a regional and statewide priority with implications for national
economic and urban planning significance, we anticipate that several federal, state, and private funding
sources can be sought for the work required. Similarly, the outcomes of this planning effort may involve
land use and multimodal improvements such that staff anticipates separate (non-Measure B) funding will
be sought.



Next Steps

Based on the expanded scope involved with a Coordinated Area Plan or similar planning effort, staff will
seek city council approval to remove the Palo Alto Avenue crossing from the ongoing evaluation of
citywide grade separation alternatives. The Connecting Palo Alto evaluation will then focus on the other
existing at-grade crossings at Churchill Avenue, Charleston Road, and Meadow Drive crossings.

Initiation of a Coordinated Area Plan for Downtown circulation will depend on scoping, identification of
funding, and staff capacity to support plan development. At this time, we anticipate that planning work
could begin in late 2019.




                                                                                                        3
Attachment G – Letters to Council About Rail Grade Separation

This document contains the following:

   1.   Letters to Council about Rail Grade Separation Received in the Month of December to Date
   2.   Presentations Shared by CAP Members at the December 12th CAP Meeting
   3.   The Townsend Legislative Letter Presented to the Rail Committee on November 27, 2018
   4.   Letters to Council about Rail Grade Separation Received in the Month of November 2018
   5.   Letters to Council about Rail Grade Separation Received in the Month of October 2018
   6.   Letters to Council about Rail Grade Separation Received in the Month of September 2018
Carnahan, David

From:               martin@sommer.net
Sent:               Thursday, December 6, 2018 4:58 PM
To:                 Council, City
Cc:                 arobeso@menlopark.org
Subject:            Attn: Rail Committee, Palo Alto


Email sent to Angela Obeso, City of Menlo Park:

Please address the issue of: a) closing the Palo Alto Ave rail crossing, in conjunction with b) taking Alma
directly across the creek between Menlo Park and Palo Alto.

Thank you!

Martin



--
Martin Sommer
650-346-5307
martin@sommer.net
http://www.linkedin.com/in/martinsommer

"Turn technical vision into reality."




-------- Original Message --------

Subject:Great meeting you last night
  Date:2018‐12‐06 10:24
  From:martin@sommer.net
     To:arobeso@menlopark.org



Good morning Angela,

It was great meeting you last night at the Menlo Park Caltrain meeting. I had proposed the idea of closing
the Palo Alto Ave rail crossing in Palo Alto, and taking Alma directly across the creek between Menlo Park
and Palo Alto. I had also suggested moving the small El Palo Alto Park to the other side of the tracks, and
extend the El Camino Park.

This idea would: a) eliminate the cost of another grade separation, b) eliminate train noise wrt to current
crossing, and c) lower the number of track crossings, between Menlo Park and Palo Alto.

Please let me know, if I can help you explain this idea to Menlo Park and/or Palo Alto stake holders.

Thanks again,

Martin
                                                         1
--
Martin Sommer
650-346-5307
martin@sommer.net
http://www.linkedin.com/in/martinsommer

"Turn technical vision into reality."




                                          2
Carnahan, David

From:               Wolfgang Dueregger <wolfgang.dueregger@alumni.stanford.edu>
Sent:               Monday, December 3, 2018 6:45 PM
To:                 Council, City; Keene, James; Shikada, Ed
Cc:                 Neilson Buchanan; John Guislin; Paul & Karen Machado; Carol Scott; Christian Pease; evergreen-park-
                    discuss@yahoogroups. com Use THis One
Subject:            Fwd: No teamwork for train


Dear City Council and city managers,

it seems Palo Alto has not gotten in touch with its neighbors reg/ a common approach to build a tunnel underneath the
majority of our cities along the Peninsula.

Would you think now is maybe the right time to start this work?

thank you

Wolfgang


‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
From: Wolfgang Dueregger <wolfgang.dueregger@alumni.stanford.edu>
Date: Mon, Dec 3, 2018 at 6:23 PM
Subject: No teamwork for train
To: Wolfgang Dueregger <wolfgang.dueregger@alumni.stanford.edu>




                                                           1
..


      f\11d f\'lllll~Uld r1tk'S
     t,11,lrlt, d1tf{'lt'lll !\)Utt"~




                                        \ll\ lfl1•   h 1l'h   lh1'\ Ill\' 111'1 1111\'l\'\I\'\\ 111

                                        "'"1t1l•111111 • ·"" "'""'''. '"" "'"'' 1h,•
                                        '""II   h l\ 1•lh1 l l'lll111h\'\, II\\ \\l\hlljl      I\\
                                        •'I\ l'''' C11•1111 '"""'
                                        11 1 ' " "11" ' '·'"' ·""' 11•11111;1111 ' l l'\\ " ' ' ' "
                                          ' ' " ' "''""' "'         1'"'"""11 ''"'      l\\' 111
                                        ill \lllllli't i>pll"ll '" t'<l\h I II\\'\ h11\1•
                                                                                                 h
                                        ''"'till ,1,., 1111',I \\ h.11 II• 111,     '"'" 111\'ll
                                        1111    '"''"" ''          lt.•11,•11•1,    "''"""""'




                                        2
Ideas from December 12 CAP Meeting




                        Embarcadero and
                      Palo Alto Ave Concepts
                                     David Shen, Tony Carrasco, Jason Matlof
                                                   V5 12-10-18
Embarcadero Ave
Why talk about Embarcadero?
• 1930s structure overdue for upgrade.
   • Alma on bridge necks down from 4 to 3 lanes.
   • Embarcadero underneath necks down from 4 to 3 lanes.
• Traffic flow between two arterials, Alma and Embarcadero, is not
  optimal
   • Not enough protected access ramps to/from each road and in all directions.
   • Traffic flows through neighborhood streets to make transition
• Traffic lights at Town and Country and El Camino do not encourage
  good flow
Goals
• Upgrade/update old 1930s structure.
• Reduce traffic flow in neighborhood streets.
• Increase safety and access for pedestrians and cyclists.
   • Preserve/enhance pedestrian and cyclist access under Alma with rebuild.
   • Improve Paly student pedestrian light with another option, ie. Ped/bike underpass.
• Fix traffic lights between Alma and El Camino.
   • Remove a light or two if possible.
   • Coordinate lights to improve traffic flow.
• Do all this without property takings
   • “Minimize eminent domain”
Concept Goals
• STIMULATE THINKING AND POSSIBILITIES
  • NOT ACTUAL SOLUTIONS TO BE DEBATED
  • NEED FURTHER DESIGN AND STUDY
• TREAT TRAFFIC SOLUTIONS IN PALO ALTO AS A SYSTEM
  • NOT AS INDIVIDUAL INTERSECTIONS
Concept 1: Josh Mello – Curve Embarcadero to the south,
add exit loop onto Embarcadero West.                      Orange= original
                                                          path of Embarcadero




                                            Exit loop
                            Traffic light




                                                          Traffic light
Concept 2: Josh Mello – Curve Embarcadero to the south,
add left exit lane from Alma North onto Embarcadero West.    Orange= original
                                                             path of Embarcadero




                                            Left exit lane
                            Traffic light




                                                             Traffic light
Concept 3: Exit ramp from Alma North onto Embarcadero
                                                                       Orange= original
West. Curve Embarcadero to south                                       path of Embarcadero



                                          Exit ramp from Kingsley to
                                          Embarcadero West
                          Traffic light




                                                                       Traffic light
Concept 4: Tony Carrasco – Create traffic circle between
Alma and Embarcadero
Palo Alto Ave
Goals
• Maintain access from Alma to El Camino into Menlo Park.
   • Improve traffic flow
• Maintain pedestrian/cyclist access
   • Create separated ped/bike access path alongside roadway
• Protect historic bridge and El Palo Alto tree.
• Do all this without property takings
   • “Minimize eminent domain”
Concept Goals
• STIMULATE THINKING AND POSSIBILITIES
  • NOT ACTUAL SOLUTIONS TO BE DEBATED
  • NEED FURTHER DESIGN AND STUDY
• TREAT TRAFFIC SOLUTIONS IN PALO ALTO AS A SYSTEM
  • NOT AS INDIVIDUAL INTERSECTIONS
Concept 1: Shift new road to El Camino to the south, take over park area of El
Camino Park. Add sloping down road alongside Alma to drop down to
underpass. If 2% grade, slope down begins at Everett.

                   2 lanes slope up to meet El Camino, approx.
                   2-4% grade




                                                                     Adjacent drop down
                                                                     2 lanes, approx. 2-3%
                                                                     grade



                                        Train tracks remain                Traffic light
                                        at same level                      governs flow
Concept 1a: Shift new road to El Camino to the south, take over park area of
El Camino Park. Add sloping down road alongside Alma to drop down to
underpass. If 5% grade, slope can start in/around Hawthorne.
                    2 lanes slope up to meet El Camino, approx.
                    5% grade




                                                                    Adjacent drop down
                                                                    2 lanes, approx. 5%
                                                                    grade



                                       Train tracks remain               Traffic light
                                       at same level                     governs flow
Concept 2: Tony Carrasco – Create rail viaduct from Menlo Park through Palo
Alto downtown, change path of train tracks around historic bridge
FINAL WORD
• AGAIN: CONCEPTS TO STIMULATE THINKING AND CREATIVITY
• ADVOCATE FOR EMBARCADERO TO BE INSERTED INTO THE WORK
  PLAN NOW
  • FURTHER WORK AND STUDY IS NEEDED
• ADVOCATE FOR MORE STUDY ON PALO ALTO AVE
• GOALS:
  • MAKE PALO ALTO OVERALL A BETTER ENVIRONMENT FOR CARS, BIKES, AND
    PEDESTRIANS
  • PRESERVE *ALL* NEIGHBORHOODS’ INTEGRITY
  • DO IT ALL WITHOUT PROPERTY TAKINGS
APPENDIX
About Grade and
Grade Standards
Megan Kanne


Downtown Neighborhoods       Professorville
                             Downtown North
& Palo Alto Rail Crossings   University South
            Embarcadero Underpass


❖   Thank you to David, Jason,
    and Tony
❖   Interesting ideas worthy of
    study
                         Embarcadero Underpass

❖     Removed from the scope of work in June1
❖     Measure B funds can’t be used
❖     Limited resources are available, both with respect to
      funding and in manpower, to study additional
      alternatives at this time


1 See City Council Action Minutes June 19, 2018 https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/blobdload.aspx?t=83343.25&BlobID=65728
                        Traffic Study
❖   Comprehensive and
    multimodal
❖   Account for GUP/Stanford’s
    growth (3k new units)
❖   Make the raw traffic study data
    public
❖   Implement test closures of the
    Churchill Ave. and Palo Alto
    Ave. crossings, both separately
    and potentially together
                  “No Build” Options


❖   Include the “No Build” options
    in the options matrix
    ❖   Including a ped/bike tunnel
        or Homer-style underpass
❖   Determine the economic
    impact of “No Build” options
                         Process

❖   Improved outreach using City resources (email, Twitter,
    etc)
❖   Signage at the crossings themselves announcing the
    project to the public
❖   Take the time to gather data and feedback before
    decisions are made to close these vital east/west traffic
    arteries
Thanks!
                                  Design Alternative for
                               ONLY Meadow and Charleston

                                          Nadia Naik
                                          December 17th, 2018
                                          Palo Alto City Council




                                            info@calhsr.com
                                            www.calhsr.com


Presenter version 2018.09.01
Problem

l   PA residents prefer an underground solution.

l   Tunnels at stations are costly (high cost of burying station)

l   Trench under Meadow and Charleston may be fatally flawed
     because of the creeks

l   Hybrid and Viaduct options are not well liked

Goal of this concept:
l Creative solution
l Addresses community preference for underground solution
l Increases design alternatives
l Minimize costs and impacts
    Design Challenges:

    l   Caltrain and Freight must maintain operations during
         construction

    l   Temporary “Passing Tracks” during construction are highly
         disruptive and expensive

    l   Underground utility relocation is complicated and costly

    l   Matadero, Barron and Adobe Creeks create obstacles to
         underground alternatives

    l   Freight trains can’t handle steeper grades and constrain
         design alternatives

    l   Diesel freight tunnels require extra ventilation that electric
3        trains don’t need (>$).
Existing Opportunities?

l   Only 3 freight trains per day in PA – all at night and
     don’t impact circulation

l   Freight makes up less than 5% of operations on the
     corridor

l   Without freight, we have more design flexibility

l   Future Dumbarton Rail Corridor improvements could
     reduce or eliminate freight trains

l   Future freight could be electrified
     New Design Alternative:

              A short, electric train only tunnel
           under Meadow and Charleston ONLY
        with a single track of freight on the surface.
                 Requires two twin bore tunnels (TBM)

            We are NOT advocating this as a SOLUTION
    Only that it be included as an ALTERNATIVE for further study

       This is a NEW idea that developed based on the early issues
    identified by preliminary AECOM engineering – it was NOT part of
                    the original Master List of Alternatives
5
Electric train tunnel with 1 track of freight on surface




               Single track Freight At-grade



                   Caltrain/HSR Tunnel
Conceptual example

         Alameda Trench Corridor
         (E. Compton Blvd and
         Alameda Street, Compton )


     •    NOTE: This shows a TRENCH –
          we are proposing TUNNEL

     • Right of Way (ROW) is 100 feet
       (same as South Palo Alto)

     • This ROW fits 4 tracks – PA would
       have 2 Caltrain (in tunnel) and
       one freight track (at grade)

     • A simple curve is needed to
       separate the single freight track

     • 3 tracks enter a trench in Alameda
       instead of a tunnel – but similar
       concept
 7
 Considerations:

l   Electric only tunnel can be >2% grade (design
     flexibility)
l   Goes under creeks (avoiding potential fatal flaw)
l   Tunnel goes under the utilities, reducing the cost.
l   Can maintain Caltrain/Freight operations during
     construction
l   Tunnels without a station are much cheaper
l   Tunnels are faster to build.
l   Construction time is much shorter - less work window
     issues and little to no road disruption.
 Additional Considerations:

l   Temporary passing tracks (shoo-fly tracks) only at tunnel
     portal entrance & exit vs entire right-of-way (saves money)
l   With careful planning, TBM’s can be reused by other cities

l   Some or all future freight may be re-routed over Dumbarton
     Rail route (currently being studied) leaving space for other
     land use options.
l   Needs further study: Temporary space for the tunnel portal
     may be necessary and could require minimal commercial or
     residential eminent domain that could be returned to the
     commercial/housing stock on completion of the project

 Source on TBM Reuse: https://www.herrenknecht.com/en/services/global-services/tbm-
 refurbishment.html
       Comparative Project:
                Central Subway Tunnel in SF
     l   Built in 2014 in downtown San Francisco
     l   Two twin bore machines (TBM) with 20.7 ft diameter for 1.7 miles
     l   $234 million dollars (2014 dollars)
     l   Built under an active BART line
     l   Went through various soils: soft to thinly bedded siltstone, shale
          and sandstone bedrock
     l   Some soil even deemed “Potentially Gassy with Special
          Conditions” by Cal/OSHA.
     l   Navigated steep, turning alignment
     l   Worked with low cover, urban utilities, and sensitive structures
          requiring precautions to limit settlement impact and ensure the
          structures in downtown SF were safe.
10 Source: http://www.therobbinscompany.com/project-category/epb-tbm/
View of Central Subway Twin Bore Tunnels




      View of TBM Extraction Point


                                           (above) View of Low
                                           Clearance under which
                                           Central Subway was built
                                           (and under ACTIVE BART
                                           line!)


11
     Cost Comparisons

     In 2014, Hatch Mott MacDonald estimated a trench under
     Meadow and Charleston (2% grade) would be $480 M. (Source: HMM
     Study 2014)

     In 2018, AECOM estimated same trench would be $800 - $950 M
     – so costs have almost doubled since 2014. (Source: PA Community
     Meeting 11/14/18 slide 41)

                         Hybrid       Viaduct          Trench         Short Tunnel
                                                                       (no freight)
     Estimated       $200M - $250M $400M - $500M $800M – 950M        $400M - $550M*
     Cost 2018 $

     *CARRD estimated the Short Tunnel (No freight) alternative based on 2x
     price of similar 2014 SF Central Subway tunnel project in downtown SF

     Note: Costs could potentially be reduced further (next slide)
12
         Reducing Tunnel Cost further

        l   Reducing the tunnel diameter helps lower costs
        l   2014 – HSR White paper on Tunneling - significant cost
             reductions by reducing max operating speeds assumptions
             from 220 to 200 mph thus reducing tunnel diameters from 29.5’
             to 28’ ID (Inside Diameter).*
        l   AECOM studying City Wide tunnel with freight used 28’ Inside
             Diameter (assumes 200 mph)
        l   Tunnel diameter can be reduced since Caltrain/HSR will only
             operate max 125 mph on Peninsula
        l   Caltrain Electrification EIR shows that San Francisquito Creek
             bridge will have a maximum clearance of just 19ft. (See CARRD’s
             previous public comments re: Vertical Clearance assumptions)


 13
*Source: California High-Speed Rail Program Whitepaper On Cost Reduction Strategies, 7/25/14
       Direct Comparison of Tunnels
                          Central Subway                      PA Short Tunnel
                            No freight                           No freight
     Length:                 1.7 miles                           1.6 miles
Tunnel Diameter:               20.7 ft                   28ft* (could be reduced)

  Constraint:         Built under active BART              Under active Caltrain

   Soil types:     5 various soil types including     Unknown but PA Tunnel White
                          hazardous soils            Paper says suitable for tunneling
     Setting:          Dense urban setting                Empty suburban ROW
  Conditions:      Steep, turning alignment with     Relatively flat, straight alignment
                     vertical clearance issues       with no vertical clearance issues

    Special         Required special planning to       No buildings in ROW and no
Circumstances:     support adjacent tall buildings        adjacent skyscrapers


14
Final Thoughts

l   CARRD is NOT advocating that this is THE
     alternative – only that it be given further analysis

l   Further preliminary analysis and study is needed
     and warranted for this alternative given strong
     community preference for underground solution.

l   Too early to evaluate is this is the right solution
     vs. other design alternatives – need more info
     Appendix




16
 Palo Alto Right Of Way Widths




                                                               96 ft
                                                               85 ft
                                                               79 ft




*Approximate – not perfectly to scale. Not official diagram.
                                                                                                     RAIL         MEETING
                                                                                                           11/27/18
                                                                                                 ✔
                                                                                                     Received Before Meeting




                                           MEMO
To:           James Keene, City Manager
              Ed Shikada Assistant City Manager
              Rob de Geus, Deputy City Manager
              Heather Dauler, Intergovernmental Affairs Officer

From:         Christopher Townsend, President, Townsend Public Affairs, Inc.
              Niccolo De Luca, Senior Director
              Alex Gibbs, Senior Associate

Date:         November 26, 2018

Subject: Suggested strategy regarding grade separation funding and opportunities

SUMMARY
Townsend Public Affairs, Inc. (TPA) has prepared this memo for the City of Palo Alto outlining
potential opportunities to secure grade separation funding, the various aspects to consider,
proposed next steps, and other items.

This memo is intended to provide background, identify some of the challenges we would face, and
make recommendations for the City to consider. TPA has secured grade separation funds over
the years and we have first hand knowledge on what it takes to be successful.

    1. Overview
Successfully securing grade separation funding takes time, patience, and persistence. The top
priorities for these competitive funds are to support goods movement and address safety and
mobility issues. TPA will tell our Palo Alto-specific story, help build up a regional coalition, work
with our legislative delegation and others to first educate and then work on funding opportunities.

    2. Recommended strategy Phase 1
Due to the competitive nature of these funds, and the large price tag involved, we recommend
education as the first phase of advocacy. We need to create briefing materials that explain the
problem, what we are doing to address it locally, and why additional outside funding is needed for
project completion.

We need to be able to clearly articulate what problem we are trying to solve and provide data to
back it up such as estimated design and construction costs, future traffic counts, future bicycle
and pedestrian counts, negative air quality from cars idling, the benefits of commuting, as well as
any potential negative impact of electrification on neighborhoods.

     3. Recommended strategy Phase 2
Once our materials are complete, we recommend multiple advocacy trips to Sacramento to meet
with decision makers, legislators, and members of the new Administration. It would be very helpful
if this delegation would include the Mayor or others on the Council.



       State Capitol Office ▪ 925 L Street • Suite 1404 • Sacramento, CA 95814 • Phone (916) 447-4086 • Fax (916) 444-0383
      Federal Office ▪ 600 Pennsylvania SE • Suite 207 • Washington, DC 20003 • Phone (202) 546-8696 • Fax (202) 546-4555
Southern California Office ▪ 1401 Dove Street • Suite 330 • Newport Beach, CA 92660 • Phone (949) 399-9050 • Fax (949) 476-8215
Central California Office ▪ 744 P Street • Suite 308 • Fresno, CA 93721 • Phone (949) 399-9050 • Fax (949) 476-8215
Northern California Office ▪ 300 Frank Ogawa Plaza • Suite 204 • Oakland, CA 94612 • Phone (510) 835-9050 • Fax (510) 835-9030
Meetings targets would include, but not be limited to:
  • The State Transportation Secretary
           a. More than likely Governor-Elect Newsom will appoint his own Secretary
  • The Executive Director of the California Transportation Commission (CTC) and her top
       staff
  • Caltrans executives who oversee rail
  • Palo Alto’s legislative delegation Senator Jerry Hill and Assembly Member Marc Berman
  • Neighboring members such as Senator Wiener, Assembly Members Mullin and Ting
  • Senate Transportation and Housing Chair Jim Beall and his committee staff
  • Assembly Transportation Chair Jim Frazier and his committee staff
  • Vice Chair of the Senate Transportation and Housing Committee
  • Vice Chair of the Assembly Transportation Committee

After our advocacy trips, we will have briefed many stakeholders and decision makers. From our
experience, its prudent to keep them continuously updated and in the loop so they become vested
in our efforts. The form of these updates can be in person briefings, email updates, or written
updates.

   4. Multiple funding sources
We recommend identifying multiple funding sources as the final price tag of the overall grade
separation needs in the City could be high. This includes federal, state, regional and local funding
sources.

Funding opportunities including the following existing programs, and, fortunately, with the SB1
funds withstanding a recall, there are other options available, such as:

California Public Utilities Commission:
    • The Section 130 Grade Crossing Hazard Elimination Program provides federal funds to
        local agencies (cities and counties) and railroads to eliminate hazards at existing at-grade
        public highway-rail crossings.
    • The Section 190 Grade Separation Program provides state funds to local agencies to
        grade-separate at-grade crossings (crossings), or to improve grade-separated crossings.

California Transportation Commission:
    • Solutions for Congested Corridors Program (SCCP). The purpose of the Solutions for
        Congested Corridors Program is to provide funding to achieve a balanced set of
        transportation, environmental, and community access improvements to reduce congestion
        throughout the state.
    • Local Partnership Program (LPP). The Road Repair and Accountability Act of 2017
        (Senate Bill 1) created the Local Partnership Program, which is modeled closely after the
        Proposition 1B State Local Partnership Program. The purpose of this program is to provide
        local and regional transportation agencies that have passed sales tax measures,
        developer fees, or other imposed transportation fees with a continuous appropriation of
        $200 million annually from the Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Account to fund road
        maintenance and rehabilitation, sound walls, and other transportation improvement
        projects.




                                                 2
    5. Opportunities for partnerships
The electrification of Caltrain will have an impact on Palo Alto and other cities throughout the
Peninsula. This works to our advantage for two reasons. The first is it helps us build a coalition of
municipalities and other organizations to frame this as a regional matter. The second is by growing
our coalition we can increase the likelihood of securing funding or better yet creating a specific
funding source for cities to access for grade separation projects.

    6. Potential barriers
As highlighted in the overview section, it could take multiple years to secure all the funds needed
to fully address grade separation locations throughout the City. Other potential barriers could
include requests for design exemptions, state wide demand for these funds, and regional needs.

    7. Next steps
Depending on the feedback and discussion to the points above impacts our next steps. However,
we recommend the creation of briefing documents as soon as possible so we can then shift to
briefing and educating decisions makers in Sacramento.




                                                 3
   NOVEMBER 2018 EMAILS TO CITY.COUNCIL ABOUT
     CONNECTING PALO ALTO GRADE SEPARATION
From:          Sumita Debata
To:            Council, City
Subject:       [Request] Underground the Train option
Date:          Wednesday, November 14, 2018 8:25:44 AM
Attachments:   IMG_20161228_102715.jpg
               IMG_20161228_103701.jpg


Subject: Intent to voice vote for underground the train option.

Hi Team,

In 2016 December there was a CALTRAIN accident near Charleston. The train and
car crash rolled into my backyard in Park Blvd. Almost 10-15ft inside my backyard
breaking the fence. I live with my family and kids and it's was very scary seeing the
train car crash inside my backyard.

Train above the ground is very dangerous option having been through personally. My
vote is to underground the train.

Train accident after crash picture attached for reference.



Thanks,
Sumita
From:         Larry and April Alton
To:           Council, City
Subject:      Alma street train crossing
Date:         Wednesday, November 14, 2018 6:13:09 PM


Dear Council Members,
I believe the best train crossing for Alma would be tracks under the road
and creek. Alma is one of the main entrances to Palo Alto and we want it
to be beautiful and representative of our high class city! This is certainly
possible from an engineering standpoint and the additional cost would not
be that great considering the overall cost of the train route thru Palo Alto.

Thanks,
Larry Alton
From:           Florence LaRiviere
To:             Council, City
Subject:        Caltrain Electrification
Date:           Tuesday, November 13, 2018 4:46:01 PM


Dear Rail Committee and City Council members,

I ask you to please add Charleston/Meadow tunnel (passenger train tunneled, freight at grade)
to the AECOM work plan for further detailed review. Some have suggested that moving the
tunnel eastward towards Alma would be a less impactful location. Please spend the time and
resources to seriously study the underground options in this part of town. It seems like it is
time to eliminate or merge the raised options.

Rail Committee members, we respectfully request that at your meeting tomorrow the above
issues be added to the City Council agenda so that AECOM can proceed.

Thank you for the work done so far in this complex and far reaching project.

Yours sincerely, Florence and Virginia LaRiviere
From:               Florence Keller
To:                 Council, City; cory.wolbach@gmail.com; adrianfine@gmail.com; Filseth, Eric (external); kou.pacc@gmail.com;
                    tomforcouncil@gmail.com; greg@gregtanaka.org; Scharff, Greg; electcormack@gmail.com
Cc:                 Palo Alto Citizens
Subject:            Charleston/Meadow Rail Crossings
Date:               Tuesday, November 13, 2018 3:58:40 PM




Dear Board Members.

First, thank you for all you do.

Thank you also for responding to the sensitivities of Palo Alto
Residents by assiduously avoiding invoking eminent domain in your
consideration of how best to address the issues posed by the enhanced
numbers of trains projected to travel though our intersections. The
truth is, however, that for the neighbors most immediately affected by
Caltrain (I do not count myself among these), the notion of having a 14
foot (or 40 foot when there is a train passing),berm or a Viaduct in
their backyard--eliminating even the pretense of pleasure or privacy in
one's backyard, may be worse than eminent domain. (I choose not to
dwell on the horrors of living in these houses during the construction
period of whatever choice you make,) And economically speaking, those
folks whose properties immediately abut the railroad, are about to be
slammed. I noticed this weekend that the sales prices of two houses
that are for sale and situated immediately adjacent to the rails between
Charleston and Meadow have been reduced . I do not believe either of
them have yet been sold. You worry about what citizens of Palo Alto
will have to pay for a trench or a tunnel, but those living in the
neighboring residences will, I expect, end up paying substantially more,
financially, acoustically, and visually, if a berm or viaduct is the
solution selected by you.

Palo Alto is too important, and frankly too rich, to make major
decisions based primarily on economics.   And, in considering the
various solutions to problems posed by the increased numbers of trains,
I hope you will not, as Boards in the past have so frequently done, put
the greatest burden on South Palo Alto residents. A tunnel, or at least
a trench, is the only humane approach to this problem.

Sincerely,

Florence Keller

4124 Wilkie Way
From:            Phil Burton
To:              De Geus, Robert
Cc:              Council, City; "Chris Logan"; Carrasco, Tony; "Dave Shen"; "Greg Brail"; "Inyoung Cho"; "Megan Kanne"; "Kari Hodgson"; "Mandar Borkar"; "Parag Patkar"; "Patricia Lau"; "Nadia Naik"
Subject:         Concern and frustration about lack of effective communications
Date:            Thursday, November 15, 2018 5:41:37 PM
Attachments:     image002.jpg


Rob,

At the most recent City Council Rail Committee meeting, the third of three handouts was a June 28, 2017 letter from then mayor Scharff to Francisco
Castillo, Director of Public Affairs, Union Pacific Railroad. I was surprised to read the following:

“The electrification of Caltrain will allow for higher grades, as electric service can easily deal with up to a two percent grade.” [my italics] The maximum
grade has been a central point of both Rail Committee and CAP meeting discussions, because of the impact on construction costs as well as feasibility of
certain alternatives. To the best of my knowledge, no one on staff ever stated that the elected officials or staff already understood this point. When
several speakers, including me, made this point at various meetings, there was no staff response in the spirit of, “We already understand this point, and
are prepared to raise it with Caltrain and/or UPRR.”

I find it surprising and a bit frustrating that CAP members and members of the general public (speaking at Rail Committee meetings) aren’t aware of the
full history of this key issue. With full awareness of the history, CAP members can be more effective as intermediaries between project staff and
residents of our respective neighborhoods.

The online search “Union Pacific RR shortline RFP process” yields a link http://www.caltrain.com/Assets/_Public+Affairs/pdf/UP+Agreement+FAQs.pdf, a
March 1, 2017 Caltrain / UP Agreement. The FAQ contains this question and answer:

However, the link in the answer is no longer valid.




Thus we have no way to know if and how the UP responded to Mayor Scharff’s letter, yet an understanding of their response, if any, might have a vital
bearing on current discussions of this issue. Is there any way for staff to provide CAP members, or the general public, with copies of the relevant
documents?

The other key issue involving UP is vertical clearance above top of rail. Has there been any correspondence with UP on this issue?

I would like to point out that electric multiple-unit trains can easily climb a grade of well over 2%. I am personally familiar with grades on the New York
City Transit System, which also uses electric MU trains. You can read here that there are several locations on this system with grades over 4%.
https://www.nyctransitforums.com/topic/39935-what-is-the-steepest-grade-that-subway-cars-can-handle/

Respectfully,

Phil Burton
From:           Rachel Kellerman
To:             Council, City; Shikada, Ed; De Geus, Robert; Gaines, Chantal
Cc:             Tom Kellerman; Megan Kanne; Barbara Ann Hazlett; YORIKO KISHIMOTO
Subject:        Connecting Palo Alto Mailer - Neighborhood Traffic Impacts Decision Criteria Not Included
Date:           Thursday, November 8, 2018 12:26:14 PM
Attachments:    IMG_8200.JPG


Dear Honorable City Council Members, Mr Shikada, Mr de Geus, Ms Gains,

I attended the CAP meeting yesterday and was dismayed that the decision making criteria
concerning the local traffic impacts of all rail grade crossing options was omitted from the
Connecting Palo Alto mailer that is being sent to all Palo Alto addresses. Criteria bullet point
8 on the mailer reads: Maintain or improve local access while on the Connecting Palo Alto
Fact Sheet posted on the Connecting Palo Alto webpage it reads: Maintain or improve local
access while reducing regional traffic on neighborhood streets. (References:
https://pagradesep.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/08/City_of_Palo_Alto_FactsheetV2.pdf   I
have also attached my copy of the mailer-apologies for the scribbles.)

Why is this important? Council has instructed staff to consider neighborhood traffic impacts
when weighing all rail grade crossing options. Neighborhood traffic impacts should not be an
afterthought, but an integral part of the consideration process. I don’t have enough
neighborhood input to speak authoritatively on a number of issues related to rail grade
crossings, but I know without a doubt that neighborhood traffic is a huge concern for
Professorville neighbors if Churchill and Palo Alto Avenue are closed to East/West traffic.
Neighborhood traffic reduction criteria also did not appear on the “decision matrix” slides that
were presented yesterday.

We are not asking for the mailer to be reprinted but we are asking that all future
communication, especially the decision making matrices that are presented at community
meetings, include the entire criteria as agreed upon by the Council and posted on the CAP
webpage: Maintain or improve local access while reducing regional traffic on neighborhood
streets.

As always, we greatly appreciate all your hard work on this difficult and complicated matter.

Regards,
Tom and Rachel Kellerman
From:           Marilyn Bauriedel
To:             Council, City
Subject:        Further concerns about Rail Crossings in Palo Alto
Date:           Monday, November 12, 2018 9:27:24 PM


Dear Mayor Kniss and City Council Members:

As you continue to work on the options and plans for the Palo Alto rail crossings I would urge
you to do the following:
Add Charleston/Meadow tunnel to the AECOM work plan for next level detail;
Have AECOM explore moving the trench towards Alma (Eastward) to further reduce the
impact on residential properties, and
Eliminate or merge the raised options; eliminate Viaduct and/or merge with Hybrid; spend
more time and resources on studying underground options.

I live in the Fairmeadow Eichler neighborhood and will be very much affected by how these
new crossings are handled.

Thank you.

Marilyn Bauriedel
3673 South Ct
Palo Alto


Marilyn U. Bauriedel
mbauriedel@ursu.com
From:           Tracy Mallory
To:             Council, City
Subject:        grade separation of rail crossings
Date:           Monday, November 19, 2018 10:03:34 AM


As one of many residents commenting on the project, I’d like to ask if the project evaluation
criteria ever included loss of property value with the various options, and also ask again why
the reversed hybrid option has been dismissed?

If an above gade-level option for the train of any kind is selected the increase in noise,
especially at night and the visual blight (especially during the day;-) will obviously have a
dramatic effect on the value of properties on either side of the tracks, with greater reductions
closer to the rail line.

It should not be hard to get some “real” estimates, but the following is more likely to be low
than high.

Conservatively:
   1 mile of significanlty impacted housing, call it 50 lot lengths along the route, but could be
twice this
   5 lots deep on each side seriously affected - lose 10% property value
   10 lots further on each sidely moderately affected - lose 5% property value
   10 lots further mildly affected - lose 2.5% property value

On east side average property value is ?? 2.5M
On west side average property value is ?? 2M

((250 * 2M) + (250 * 2.5M)) * 0.1 +
((500 * 2M) + (500 * 2.5M)) * 0.05 +
((500 * 2M) + (500 * 2.5M)) * 0.025

= $281,250

It’s pretty clear why a lot of residents are very upset about the direct cost to them of a cheap
solution. It is not acceptable to compare this to existing raised track solutions farther north.
Once you get to Redwood city there are relatively few houses along the route, but south Palo
Alto is all single-family housing.

I’m surprised that the “other” hybrid option of raising the roads an lowering the rail line has
been dismissed. I would be very distressed by having my house taken as a result of eminent
domain needs, but losing ten houses, perhaps paying the owners twice what they are worth,
would be much, much cheaper than impacting thousands of homeowners for the rest of their
lives and dividing the south end of the city permanently with visual as well as a physical wall.
We don’t need massive structures of the magnitude of San Antonio Road. Although fairly
wide, the roadway could have quite a low load limit, requiring trucks to use San Antonio or
Oregon as today. Sink the train 15 feet(not 30) which would put it 17 feet below where it is
today(it’s above grade now) and raise the road 10 feet and everyone except for a few well-
compensated home-owners will be much happier than with any of the current plans.

Sincerely,
Tracy Mallory
650-279-0037

PS: Here’s the math:

>>> expr \( \( \( 500 \* 2000000 \) + \( 500 \* 2500000 \) \) \* 5 \/ 100 \) \+ \( \( \( 500 \* 2000000 \) + \( 500 \* 2500000 \) \) \* 25 \/
1000 \) \+ \( \( \( 250 \* 2000000 \) + \( 250 \* 2500000 \) \) \* 10 \/ 100 \)
281250000
From:          Nadia Naik
To:            Council, City
Cc:            De Geus, Robert; Shikada, Ed; Elizabeth Alexis; Megan Kanne; Parag Patkar; Mandar Borkar; Goodwin Eileen;
               Keene, James; Chris Logan; Dave Shen; Philip Burton; Carrasco, Tony; Inyoung Cho; Greg Brail; Levin, Adina;
               etty.mercurio@aecom.com; millette.litzinger@aecom.com; Kari Hodgson; Patricia Lau; Penny Ellson
Subject:       Grade Separation Suggestion: Alternate Viaduct Design
Date:          Thursday, November 29, 2018 4:04:41 PM


Dear City Council,

As we consider viaduct alternatives, I wanted to send along another idea for a
viaduct that has a lower profile - a "U-shaped grade separation."

The full details are available here:

https://caltrain-hsr.blogspot.com/2015/11/the-u-shaped-grade-separation.html

Nadia Naik
From:           Roland Lebrun
To:             Council, City
Cc:             Nadia Naik; Keene, James; Shikada, Ed; De Geus, Robert; apexstr@pacbell.net; etty.mercurio@aecom.com;
                millette.litzinger@aecom.com
Subject:        London"s high speed tunnel diameters and costs
Date:           Wednesday, November 28, 2018 1:25:12 AM
Attachments:    HS1 Tunnel diameters.bmp
                Slide1.GIF
                Slide1.GIF



Dear Council members,

Further to Nadia Naik's comments about reduced tunnel costs achieved through context-
sensitive tunnel design, London's high-speed tunnels were designed with a 23.5-foot internal
diameter and were tested at 160 MPH: https://youtu.be/Uv14ylJjqvM

Please refer to the attached file for the cost of the tunnels, portals (including a freight
connection), vent shafts and the 1/4 mile open trench station 25 seconds into the video


                                                   Eurostar test train running at
                                                   255 kmh in London Tunnels
                                                   This is the only footage available of a Eurostar
                                                   test train running at Maximum Test Speed + 10%
                                                   (255 km) on the Section 2 of the London Tunnels
                                                   on the Channe...

                                                   youtu.be




Sincerely,

Roland Lebrun
From:              The Cowies
To:                Keene, James; Shikada, Ed; De Geus, Robert; Council, City; cory.wolbach@gmail.com; adrianfine@gmail.com;
                   Filseth, Eric (external); kou.pacc@gmail.com; tomforcouncil@gmail.com; greg@gregtanaka.org; Scharff, Greg;
                   electcormack@gmail.com
Subject:           Please tunnel the train at Meadow and Charleston
Date:              Monday, November 12, 2018 10:48:50 PM




Hi Folks,

Please keep working on getting the train tunneled at Meadow and Charleston. It’s super important in so many ways.
Thanks for all you are doing!!

Liz Cowie
El Dorado Ave
Palo Alto
From:           Nadia Naik
To:             Council, City
Cc:             Keene, James; Shikada, Ed; De Geus, Robert; Goodwin Eileen; etty.mercurio@aecom.com;
                millette.litzinger@aecom.com; Elizabeth Alexis
Subject:        Public Comment: Request to add an alternative for study for the Meadow/Charleston Grade separations
Date:           Monday, November 12, 2018 9:11:22 PM
Attachments:    CARRD Comment - Short Electric tunnel only recommendation.pdf




Dear City Council Members,

We support the Staff Report recommendation to not eliminate any grade separation
alternatives at this time. While the Viaduct is the least favored alternative, it remains worthy
of further analysis because it is the lowest cost and allows more connectivity than a Hybrid
(which functions effectively as a wall).

In addition, we would like to propose an alternative that was mentioned previously: a
short tunnel for electrified trains, with freight remaining at the surface.

Please see the attached letter for further details.

If you have any questions, please let me know.

Nadia Naik
Co-founder, CARRD
                                                       	  
	  
November	  12,	  2018	  
	  
	  
Subject:	  Recommendation	  of	  adding	  alternative	  of	  short	  tunnel	  for	  electrified	  trains	  only	  with	  
freight	  at	  the	  surface	  for	  Meadow	  and	  Charleston	  alternatives.	  	  
	  
	  
Dear	  City	  Council	  Members,	  	  
	  
We	  support	  the	  Staff	  Report	  recommendation	  to	  not	  eliminate	  any	  grade	  separation	  
alternatives	  at	  this	  time.	  While	  the	  Viaduct	  is	  the	  least	  favored	  alternative,	  it	  remains	  worthy	  of	  
further	  analysis	  because	  it	  is	  the	  lowest	  cost	  and	  allows	  more	  connectivity	  than	  a	  Hybrid	  (which	  
functions	  effectively	  as	  a	  wall).	  	  
	  
In	  addition,	  we	  would	  like	  to	  propose	  an	  alternative	  that	  was	  mentioned	  previously:	  a	  short	  
tunnel	  for	  electrified	  trains,	  with	  freight	  remaining	  at	  the	  surface.	  The	  slope,	  clearance,	  
ventilation	  and	  Fire	  Life	  Safety	  requirements	  driven	  by	  freight	  and	  other	  diesel	  trains	  in	  the	  
tunnels	  add	  significant	  costs	  to	  the	  tunnel	  proposal	  currently	  under	  consideration.	  	  Freight	  
tentatively	  remaining	  at	  the	  surface	  for	  the	  present	  would	  not	  liberate	  all	  of	  the	  ROW	  land	  for	  
other	  uses,	  but	  the	  vehicular	  crossing	  capacity	  issue	  would	  be	  addressed.	  	  	  
	  
A	  key	  condition	  has	  recently	  changed	  along	  the	  corridor	  making	  this	  a	  feasible	  alternative;	  
Caltrain	  is	  no	  longer	  considering	  running	  both	  diesel	  and	  electric	  trains	  and	  will	  now	  have	  a	  fully	  
electric	  fleet.	  In	  addition,	  the	  Dumbarton	  Rail	  project	  recently	  received	  approval	  to	  begin	  its	  
investigation	  of	  whether	  to	  rebuild	  the	  old	  rail	  bridge	  that	  formerly	  carried	  freight	  across	  the	  
Bay.	  	  If	  this	  came	  to	  fruition,	  freight	  might	  be	  partially	  or	  fully	  diverted	  to	  a	  Dumbarton	  route	  
and	  no	  longer	  pass	  through	  Palo	  Alto,	  leaving	  the	  right-­‐of-­‐way	  above	  the	  tunnel	  free	  for	  other	  
uses.	  	  	  
	  
We	  have	  identified	  a	  similar	  tunneling	  project,	  the	  San	  Francisco	  Central	  Subway	  Tunnel,	  
which	  seems	  to	  indicate	  that	  tunneling	  may	  even	  be	  much	  cheaper	  than	  a	  trench.	  	  
	  
HMM	  Trench	  Study:	  
	  
As	  you	  may	  recall,	  in	  2014,	  HMM	  gave	  a	  rough	  estimated	  cost	  for	  a	  trench	  below	  Meadow	  and	  
Charleston	  at	  $488	  Million	  (in	  2014	  dollars).	  	  
	  
Here	  was	  the	  breakdown:	  	  
	                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2	  


	  




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           	  
	  
	  
Central	  Subway	  Tunnel	  Without	  Freight	  
	  
Also	  in	  2014,	  the	  Central	  Subway	  project	  in	  San	  Francisco	  completed	  a	  1.7	  mile	  dual	  subway	  
tunnel	  using	  two	  20.7	  ft	  diameter	  tunnel	  boring	  machines	  (TBM).	  While	  the	  overall	  cost	  of	  the	  
project	  is	  very	  high,	  the	  vast	  majority	  of	  the	  cost	  is	  related	  to	  several	  very	  deep	  and	  complex	  
stations.	  The	  cost	  to	  complete	  the	  tunnel	  portion	  of	  the	  project:	  $234	  million	  dollars	  (2014	  
dollars).	  For	  reference,	  the	  distance	  from	  Loma	  Verde	  Ave	  to	  San	  Antonio	  Road	  in	  Palo	  Alto	  is	  
1.6	  miles.	  Palo	  Alto	  would	  likely	  have	  a	  additional	  costs	  beyond	  what	  was	  needed	  on	  the	  
subway	  project	  (signaling,	  larger	  diameter	  bore,	  etc.)	  but	  the	  price	  difference	  is	  worth	  
investigating	  and	  maybe	  minimal	  with	  the	  use	  of	  a	  single	  bore	  tunnel.	  
	  
Unlike	  Palo	  Alto’s	  right	  of	  way,	  these	  tunnels	  were	  built	  in	  densely	  urban	  San	  Francisco	  and	  
under	  an	  active	  BART	  line1.	  The	  TBMs	  went	  through	  various	  soils	  ranging	  from	  soft	  soils	  to	  
thinly	  bedded	  siltstone,	  shale	  and	  sandstone	  bedrock	  -­‐	  with	  some	  area	  designated	  as	  
“Potentially	  Gassy	  with	  Special	  Conditions”	  by	  Cal/OSHA2.	  The	  TBMs	  also	  had	  to	  navigate	  the	  
	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  
1	   http://www.therobbinscompany.com/project-category/epb-tbm/	  

	  
2	   http://www.therobbinscompany.com/project-category/epb-tbm/	  
	                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3	  


steep	  and	  turning	  alignment	  in	  an	  area	  where	  they	  dealt	  with	  low	  cover,	  nearby	  utilities,	  and	  
sensitive	  structures	  requiring	  analyses	  and	  precautions	  to	  limit	  settlement	  impact	  and	  ensure	  
the	  structures	  in	  downtown	  SF	  were	  safe.	  	  Given	  Palo	  Alto	  is	  in	  a	  suburban	  area	  with	  less	  
constraints,	  it	  seems	  reasonable	  to	  consider	  this	  alternative	  closely.	  	  
	  
Palo	  Alto	  Short	  Tunnel	  
	  
Another	  way	  to	  reduce	  the	  cost	  of	  a	  tunnel	  is	  to	  reduce	  the	  diameter.	  In	  2014,	  the	  High	  Speed	  
Rail	  Authority’s	  White	  Paper	  on	  Tunneling	  describes	  how	  they	  achieved	  significant	  cost	  
reductions	  by	  reducing	  maximum	  operating	  speeds	  assumptions	  in	  the	  tunnels	  from	  220	  mph	  
to	  200	  mph,	  thereby	  allowing	  them	  to	  reduce	  tunnel	  diameters	  from	  29.5’	  to	  28’	  ID	  (Inside	  
Diameter).	  3	  
	  
CARRD	  requested	  from	  AECOM	  information	  on	  the	  tunnel	  assumptions	  being	  used	  for	  the	  City	  
wide	  tunnel	  (which	  include	  freight)	  and	  they	  responded	  that	  they	  are	  using	  a	  “28	  ft	  Inside	  
Diameter	  Tunnel”	  which	  would	  large	  enough	  to	  allow	  200	  mph	  speeds.	  A	  significantly	  smaller	  
diameter	  would	  be	  required	  to	  accommodate	  planned	  speeds	  of	  110	  mph.	  And,	  as	  noted	  in	  our	  
previous	  public	  comment	  on	  height	  clearances,	  the	  Caltrain	  Electrification	  EIR	  specifically	  notes	  
that	  the	  clearance	  levels	  at	  the	  San	  Francisquito	  creek	  bridge	  (where	  freight	  passes	  today)	  is	  
actually	  19ft.	  It	  is	  therefore	  worth	  investigating	  whether	  the	  tunnel	  dimensions	  for	  a	  short,	  
electrified	  train	  only	  tunnel	  in	  Palo	  Alto	  where	  maximum	  speed	  for	  both	  Caltrain	  and	  HSR	  is	  110	  
miles	  per	  hour	  would	  allow	  us	  to	  have	  a	  tunnel	  diameter	  that	  is	  less	  than	  28’.	  	  
	  
Other	  key	  things	  to	  consider	  for	  the	  short	  tunnel	  with	  freight	  on	  the	  surface	  (EOT)	  option:	  	  
	  
       • Without	  freight,	  the	  1%	  grade	  requirement	  could	  more	  readily	  change	  to	  2%	  or	  even	  3%	  
             grade,	  which	  would	  allow	  for	  more	  design	  flexibility.	  
       • Caltrain	  and	  freight	  could	  continue	  operations	  during	  construction	  with	  minimal	  
             disruption	  except	  at	  the	  site	  of	  tunnel	  boring	  machine	  entrance	  and	  exit.	  
       • Traffic	  during	  construction	  would	  be	  minimally	  disrupted	  
       • Tunnels	  in	  stations	  are	  expensive,	  but	  this	  option	  would	  not	  impact	  stations	  
       • Tunnels	  are	  faster	  to	  build.	  Construction	  time	  is	  dramatically	  reduced	  because	  the	  work	  
             window	  issues	  and	  the	  phasing	  required	  on	  the	  road	  side	  are	  much	  less.	  	  
       • It	  would	  go	  under	  the	  utilities,	  reducing	  the	  cost.	  	  
       • It	  could	  go	  under	  the	  creeks.	  	  
       • It	  does	  not	  impact	  the	  streets.	  	  
       • The	  equivalent	  of	  shoofly	  tracks	  are	  needed	  near	  the	  portal,	  but	  not	  along	  the	  entire	  
             right-­‐of-­‐way.	  	  



	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  
	  
3	  California High-Speed Rail Program Whitepaper On Cost Reduction Strategies, July 25, 2014

	  
	                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4	  


          •          With	  careful	  planning	  and	  analysis,	  TBM’s	  can	  be	  reused	  -­‐	  perhaps	  by	  other	  cities	  along	  
                     the	  corridor.	  4	  
          •          In	  the	  future,	  some	  or	  all	  freight	  could	  be	  re-­‐routed	  over	  the	  Dumbarton	  Rail	  route	  
                     (currently	  being	  studied)	  thus	  freeing	  up	  space	  along	  the	  right-­‐of-­‐way	  for	  other	  potential	  
                     land	  use	  options.	  
          •          Temporary	  space	  for	  the	  tunnel	  portal	  may	  be	  necessary	  and	  could	  require	  minimal	  
                     eminent	  domain	  that	  could	  be	  returned	  to	  the	  housing	  stock	  on	  completion	  of	  the	  
                     project.	  	  
          •          The	  ROW	  closer	  to	  San	  Antonio	  road	  is	  much	  wider	  than	  other	  parts	  of	  the	  City	  (150	  ft	  
                     wide).	  If	  the	  TBM	  was	  launched	  from	  that	  end,	  then	  the	  removal	  requires	  less	  space.	  	  
	  
To	  see	  the	  space	  required	  for	  extracting	  a	  TBM,	  see	  this	  video	  showing	  the	  removal	  of	  the	  TBMs	  
used	  on	  the	  Central	  Subway	  project	  in	  SF.	  https://bit.ly/2PpntNC	  	  Note	  the	  size	  of	  the	  
extraction	  point	  is	  quite	  small.	  	  
	  
Summary:	  	  
	  
Preliminary	  design	  of	  grade	  separations	  are	  vague	  and	  costs	  climb	  when	  one	  considers	  the	  
issues	  of	  staging,	  prolonged	  construction,	  utility	  relocation,	  ground	  water	  issues,	  and	  
maintaining	  operations	  on	  a	  heavily	  trafficked	  railway	  during	  construction.	  What	  initially	  seems	  
like	  a	  cheaper	  solution,	  can	  become	  expensive	  quickly	  when	  these	  costs	  are	  all	  tallied	  up.	  For	  
this	  reason,	  we	  support	  the	  inclusion	  of	  a	  short	  electric	  train	  only	  tunnel	  with	  freight	  on	  the	  
surface.	  	  
	  
If	  you	  would	  like	  any	  additional	  information	  or	  have	  any	  additional	  questions,	  please	  let	  us	  
know.	  	  
	  
	  
Sincerely,	  	  
	  
Nadia	  Naik	  and	  Elizabeth	  Alexis	  
Co-­‐founders	  
CARRD	  
	  




	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  
4	   https://www.herrenknecht.com/en/services/global-services/tbm-refurbishment.html

	  
From:           Gregory Brail
To:             Council, City
Subject:        Public comment: Request to stop removing grade separation options
Date:           Monday, November 12, 2018 10:31:29 PM


Dear City Council Members:

In advance of Wednesday's Rail Committee meeting, I am writing to request that the Council
hold off on eliminating any more grade separation options for South Palo Alto until the
Council and staff are able to gather more information and hear more public input.

At the previous Rail Committee meeting, a proposal was made to eliminate the viaduct option
from consideration. I urge the Council and Committee to wait until we all have more
information before making this decision.

As a member of the Community Advisory Panel on Grade Separation, I am concerned that the
Council is moving quickly to limit our choices without giving the staff and the CAP enough
time to understand the options and share them with the entire city.  

When all is said and done, I believe that the viaduct may not be as obvious a non-starter as
many believe. For example:

       Without detailed engineering drawings and 3D graphics, it is premature to make
       assumptions about the visual impact of a 20' viaduct versus a 15' embankment.
       Similarly, without a thorough understanding of the impact of a 30' deep trench on our
       creeks and on the surrounding community, it is premature to move this solution closer to
       reality by eliminating an alternative.

I hope that the Council can instead continue to carefully study the matter, reach out to the
community, staff, and the CAP. We will all be able to make a considered decision together in
a few months.

    Gregory Brail
    2046 Edgewood Drive
    greg@brail.org
From:           Laurie Winslow
To:             Council, City
Subject:        Put the train Underground
Date:           Friday, November 9, 2018 11:03:41 AM


Dear City Council,
On the subject of what to do with Caltrain through the City of Palo Alto, my vote is to put the
train Underground or at the very least in a trench. Underground would have the added
advantage that we could have bike paths and walking paths and a linear park on the top. It also
doesn't divide the city the way the current proposal to close roads would.
Laurie Winslow
From:            Lindsay Joye
To:              Council, City
Cc:              Keene, James; Shikada, Ed; De Geus, Robert; "Mandar Borkar"
Subject:         Rail Committee Motion Request
Date:            Tuesday, November 13, 2018 2:03:50 PM


As a 25 year resident of Palo Alto with a home on Park Blvd. adjacent to the Caltrain Right of Way, I
am requesting that the Rail Committee motion to place the following items on the next City Council
meeting agenda for approval:

1. Add the Charleston/Meadow tunnel (passenger train in tunnel and freight at grade) to
AECOM’s work plan for further detailed analysis.  

2. Direct AECOM to explore moving the Trench towards Alma (Eastward) so that it further
reduces impact to residential properties. This will mitigate visual, noise, and vibration impacts as
well as the requirement to ban trees and possibly ADU construction in adjacent Park Blvd. backyards
to install trench wall anchors.

3. Eliminate or merge raised options; Eliminate Viaduct and/or merge with Hybrid; Spend more
time and resource on studying underground options;

Thank you!

- Lindsay Joye
From:           Ben Tarbell
To:             Council, City; cory.wolbach@gmail.com; adrianfine@gmail.com; Filseth, Eric (external); kou.pacc@gmail.com;
                tomforcouncil@gmail.com; greg@gregtanaka.org; Scharff, Greg; electcormack@gmail.com; Keene, James;
                Shikada, Ed; De Geus, Robert
Subject:        Rail Committee Request
Date:           Tuesday, November 13, 2018 10:20:07 AM


Dear City Council members and city staff,

Thank you for your service to our city.

I am a 12 year resident of South Palo Alto (off E. Meadow) and writing to request further
consideration of tunnel or trench train track options at Charleston/Meadow. Please add these
options to the AECOM work plan so we can investigate them further. If required to do so,
please eliminate the viaduct option or merge it with the hybrid option to allow for more time
and resources to continue investigation of the underground options.

Rail committee, please make a motion to add this to the next city council meeting agenda for
their approval.

Thank you for your consideration,

Ben Tarbell
From:            Lindsay Joye
To:              Council, City
Cc:              Keene, James; Shikada, Ed; De Geus, Robert; Mandar Borkar
Subject:         Rail Grade Separation
Date:            Tuesday, November 13, 2018 2:03:04 PM


I am a 25 year resident of Palo Alto with a home on Park Blvd. adjacent to the Caltrain Right
of Way.

I am requesting that the Rail Committee motion to place the following items on the next City
Council meeting agenda for approval:


1. Add Charleston/Meadow tunnel(passenger train in tunnel and freight at grade) to
AECOM work plan for next level detail.  

2. Suggest AECOM to explore moving the Trench towards Alma (Eastward) so that it
further reduces impact to residential properties; (This will mitigate visual, noise, and
vibration impacts as well as the requirement to ban trees and possibly ADU construction in
adjacent Park Blvd. backyards to install trench wall anchors.)


3. Eliminate or merge raised options; Eliminate Viaduct and/or merge with Hybrid;
Spend more time and resource on studying underground options;

Thank you!

- Lindsay Joye
From:           James Taylor
To:             Council, City
Subject:        Rail options in Palo Alto
Date:           Sunday, November 18, 2018 2:35:31 PM


Hi

A quick bit of feedback from someone currently living in Greenmeadow who grew up in
England living near electrified trains (at grade in one case, elevated on an embankment in the
other case - both within 2 house widths, one MUCH more frequent than caltrain dreams of).

It seems to me that the only realistic option is to run the trains at grade level and close
Charleston, Churchill and Meadow. The track could be raised a little to allow a pedestrian /
cycle path such as the one at N. California to pass under (allowing the majority of Gunn, Paly
and Fletcher students to make the crossing). San Antonio/Oregon/University/Embarcadero are
surely enough crossings for what is, at the end of the day, a small city. Once they were closed
traffic would sort itself out and the city could then invest in improving the new hotspots
created.

All the other options are either prohibitively expensive (tunnels), thoroughly unpleasant for
those living nearby (viaduct) or just utterly impractical given the water table (trench and
probably tunnel too).

As a city we need and should want a regular electric rail service. This means the at-grade
crossings have to go. Closing them is the only option as no matter what people say, they won't
be will be willing to pay the taxes necessary for anything else.

I appreciate you listening to the local population but you should be realistic about what can be
done. And a tunnel is too expense, the trench seems unlikely and the viaduct will never make
it past the voters.

Thanks for listening
James
From:           Laurie Winslow
To:             Council, City
Subject:        Rail UNDERGROUND
Date:           Monday, November 12, 2018 3:47:16 PM


The rail UNDERGROUND isn't a rock band! It's me voting as a citizen to ask that you
consider more strongly the idea of putting the train in a tunnel preferably or a trench. That
introduces some problems but it solves more long-standing problems and some of the new
ones that extra trains will create.
Laurie Winslow
From:             Michal Sadoff
To:               Council, City; Keene, James; Shikada, Ed; robert.deGeus@cityofpalotalto.org
Subject:          Request for Rail Committee and City Council regarding items for AECOM work plan
Date:             Tuesday, November 13, 2018 9:52:01 AM


 Hello to the Rail Committee, City Council members, and City staff. I am a resident in Greenmeadow.
The matter of our future rail design matters greatly to me. For reasons of aesthetics, preservation of the
character of our city, and noise, I am NOT in favor of a viaduct or hybrid. I DO want the city to put more
resources into exploring a tunnel, as I do not think that has gotten sufficient exploration. I understand that
now is the time to ask that the Rail Committee members place onto the City Council agenda a
recommendation that the council approve that AECOM work on the below items, and that the Council
approve these:

1. MOST IMPORTANT: Add Charleston/Meadow tunnel (passenger train in tunnel and freight at
grade) to AECOM work plan for next level detail.  

2. Suggest that AECOM explore moving the Trench towards Alma (Eastward) so that it further reduces
impact to residential properties;

3. Eliminate or merge raised options; Eliminate Viaduct and/or merge with Hybrid; Spend more time
and resource on studying underground options;

Thank you for taking the time to read and consider my request.

Sincerely,
Michal Ruth Sadoff
431 Adobe Place
From:           Miriam Madigan Brown
To:             Shikada, Ed; Robert.DeGeus@cityofpaloalto.o; adrianfine@gmail.com; Filseth, Eric (external);
                kou.pacc@gmail.com; tomforcouncil@gmail.com; greg@gregtanaka.org; Scharff, Greg;
                electcormack@gmail.com; Keene, James; Council, City
Cc:             Mandar Borkar
Subject:        REQUEST: Add further rail options to AECOM Work Plan
Date:           Monday, November 12, 2018 8:59:04 PM


Greetings City Council and City Staff:

My family and I are residents of the Ventura neighborhood in Palo Alto, we bought a home
here 15 years ago. We have two children in the neighborhood public schools, and my husband
and I are active members of the community - volunteering in youth sports leagues, in the
schools, and with local organizations such as PACCC.

We care a great deal about the community and are deeply invested in ensuring that Palo Alto
remains a community that prioritizes quality of life for residents.

With this in mind, I ask that you please help us guide toward wise long-term decisions in the
railway planning that is currently taking place. What is under consideration right now will be
with our community for a long, long time - decades (centuries?) into the future. It is critical
that we not take short-sighted approaches, but rather look at this work through a truly big-
picture lens - asking "how might we" work toward a plan that meets both the needs for more
transportation, AND increases livability rather than eroding it further.

More specifically, I ask that the rail committee make a motion on Wednesday to add to the
next City Council agenda approval to have AECOM work on the following:


1. TOP PRIORITY: Add Charleston/Meadow tunnel (passenger train in tunnel
and freight at grade) to AECOM work plan for next level detail.

2. Direct AECOM to explore moving the Trench towards Alma (Eastward) so
that it further reduces impact to residential properties;

3. Eliminate or merge raised options; Eliminate Viaduct and/or merge with
Hybrid; Spend more time and resource on studying underground options

Adding these options to the work plan will ensure that we are able to fully consider
and weigh the tradeoffs of a range of options as we make this critical decision for our
community.  

Please support this full consideration by adding these items to the AECOM workplan.

Thank You,
Miriam Brown
Fernando Ave.
From:             Deborah Waxman
To:               Council, City; cory.wolbach@gmail.com; adrianfine@gmail.com; Filseth, Eric (external); kou.pacc@gmail.com;
                  tomforcouncil@gmail.com; greg@gregtanaka.org; Scharff, Greg
Subject:          Support for under grounding the train
Date:             Friday, November 9, 2018 3:16:50 PM



        Dear City Council Members,
        I live in Palo Alto near the Charleston/Alma intersection. I’ve lived here for more than a
        decade, through the many suicides at the Charleston and the West Meadow
        intersections and through the increasingly dense noise and traffic. The current trains
        already pose a significant hazard and a cost to our quality of life. Adding above grade
        options will greatly exacerbate these issues.
        I strongly oppose an above-grade rail design as unsafe, unsightly, and a huge
        contributor to the already severe traffic congestion at this intersection.
        I understand your concern about costs, but I also know the cost to safety, property
        values, and quality of life that will endure for decades. We have already lost two
        families, who have moved away because they can’t endure the options that have been
        proposed. I urge you to consider the long-term impacts of this project rather than
        succumbing to short-term cost concerns. Underground tracks will minimize train noise
        and safety issues, and free up land for better, more neighborhood friendly uses. It
        would also save many families from the loss of their homes through eminent domain.
        I can only hope that you will consider a tunnel option and allow the communities to
        find ways to fund a tunnel rather than peremptorily deciding against an option that will
        do so much good for the community.
        Thank you for your consideration,
        Deborah Waxman
        4166 Park Blvd
        Palo Alto, CA 94306
From:           Amie Neff
To:             Keene, James; Shikada, Ed; De Geus, Robert; Council, City; cory.wolbach@gmail.com; Adrian Fine; Filseth, Eric
                (external); kou.pacc@gmail.com; tomforcouncil@gmail.com; greg@gregtanaka.org; Scharff, Greg;
                electcormack@gmail.com
Subject:        Train Committee Meeting Feedback Nov 14
Date:           Wednesday, November 14, 2018 1:16:40 PM
Attachments:    image.png
                image.png


Hi All,

I'm sorry we were forced to an early conclusion, I was looking forward to hearing more about
the passenger tunnel, freight above option. I have 2 thoughts to share:

1) Given the constraints currently making the City Wide Tunnel and even shallow trench
options difficult (drainage, subsurface right-of-way claims, maintenance, costs, venting, train
recovery, etc.), we may be at a better advantage if we can eliminate the freight and put Cal-
Train below grade. I am in favor of investigating this option. While it doesn't eliminate the
tracks running through the city, it does give us an opportunity to decouple the issue of freight
from our city-wide response to increased Cal-Train frequency and ridership, and this is smart.
I would like to Echo Nadia Niak's request that AECom remain impartial in presenting each
option with an equal amount of enthusiasm and skepticism. It is not in our best interest to
follow the desires of our consultant. That I am now painfully aware of the 1st choice of our
consultants makes this process feel like lip-service.

2) Eddie briefly mentioned her team was looking at relocating the viaduct to the shoefly
location, but declined to go into further detail. It seemed as if Lydia Kou, another speaking
member of the community (whose name I forget) and myself all had the impression that
pushing the viaduct into the shoefly, might mean that Alma street, (when the viaduct was
completed) would be bifurcated by the viaduct overhead. This isn't a bad idea. If we could
push the viaduct over far enough into our current existing traffic lane, then we would stack
transportation vertically, instead of taking up valuable land required to put the train adjacent to
Alma.
The viaduct doesn't demand the same width as an at-grade train, and the space below is freed
up for alternate uses. Putting a park beneath isn't realistic, but putting cars beneath? Why not?
Shifting the viaduct away from people's back yards is a nice idea. Plus, you'll be able to leave
the train in place during the bulk of construction. Of course, the train will have to shift back to
the original track, and Alma will have to be adjusted to accommodate that shift, but if you did
it away from the existing crossings, near, for example, Bruce Bauer lumber on the South end,
and near El Dorado on the North end, you could avoid impacting any roadway crossings. The
bike lane could then roughly link San Antonio Station with the new development at Fry's.
Here are a couple of imperfect images to sample:
image.png




image.png




I'd love to see details on AECom's suggestion, and investigate how far over we could push the
train viaduct into Alma.

Thanks All.
--
Amie Neff
M.Arch, LEED® AP
--
cell: 650/ 396/ 9146
amie.neff@gmail.com
www.capabledesign.com
From:           Wolfgang Dueregger
To:             Council, City
Cc:             Neilson Buchanan; Paul & Karen Machado; Carol Scott; Christian Pease; David Schrom; John Guislin
Subject:        tunnel
Date:           Tuesday, November 27, 2018 9:06:57 PM


Dear City Council,

here is an update about what the Boring Company is doing in LA.

Did you receive a bid in the meantime for our tunnel?

https://la.curbed.com/2017/12/4/16734696/elon-musk-tunnels-boring-company-map

Wolfgang Dueregger
From:         gmahany@aol.com
To:           Shikada, Ed; De Geus, Robert; Council, City; cory.wolbach@gmail.com; adrianfine@gmail.com; Filseth, Eric
              (external); kou.pacc@gmail.com; tomforcouncil@gmail.com; greg@gregtanaka.org; Scharff, Greg;
              electcormack@gmail.com
Subject:      Viaduct noise cansulation at grade railcrossings
Date:         Tuesday, November 27, 2018 12:08:38 PM



hello all
I know that there is a reflex to say that a viaduct is just an eye sore but for
affordability we may have to accept an eye sore. However, when I am not
looking at the viaduct, I do not want to hear it.
Noise cancellation features to the viaduct design are a must have.
AECOM consultants show sound walls for noise cancellation, this is a good
design feature.
Other noise cancellation features like resilient material to isolate the rails from
rail platform should also be used especially on the bridges over Charleston Rd
and Meadow Ave.

Gary Mahany
Carnahan, David

From:                Phil Burton <philip-b@comcast.net>
Sent:                Thursday, November 15, 2018 5:41 PM
To:                  De Geus, Robert
Cc:                  Council, City; 'Chris Logan'; Carrasco, Tony; 'Dave Shen'; 'Greg Brail'; 'Inyoung Cho'; 'Megan Kanne';
                     'Kari Hodgson'; 'Mandar Borkar'; 'Parag Patkar'; 'Patricia Lau'; 'Nadia Naik'
Subject:             Concern and frustration about lack of effective communications


Rob,

At the most recent City Council Rail Committee meeting, the third of three handouts was a June 28, 2017 letter from
then mayor Scharff to Francisco Castillo, Director of Public Affairs, Union Pacific Railroad. I was surprised to read the
following:

“The electrification of Caltrain will allow for higher grades, as electric service can easily deal with up to a two percent
grade.” [my italics] The maximum grade has been a central point of both Rail Committee and CAP meeting discussions,
because of the impact on construction costs as well as feasibility of certain alternatives. To the best of my knowledge,
no one on staff ever stated that the elected officials or staff already understood this point. When several speakers,
including me, made this point at various meetings, there was no staff response in the spirit of, “We already understand
this point, and are prepared to raise it with Caltrain and/or UPRR.”

I find it surprising and a bit frustrating that CAP members and members of the general public (speaking at Rail
Committee meetings) aren’t aware of the full history of this key issue. With full awareness of the history, CAP members
can be more effective as intermediaries between project staff and residents of our respective neighborhoods.

The online search “Union Pacific RR shortline RFP process” yields a link
http://www.caltrain.com/Assets/_Public+Affairs/pdf/UP+Agreement+FAQs.pdf, a March 1, 2017 Caltrain / UP
Agreement. The FAQ contains this question and answer:

However, the link in the answer is no longer valid.




Thus we have no way to know if and how the UP responded to Mayor Scharff’s letter, yet an understanding of their
response, if any, might have a vital bearing on current discussions of this issue. Is there any way for staff to provide CAP
members, or the general public, with copies of the relevant documents?

The other key issue involving UP is vertical clearance above top of rail. Has there been any correspondence with UP on
this issue?

I would like to point out that electric multiple‐unit trains can easily climb a grade of well over 2%. I am personally
familiar with grades on the New York City Transit System, which also uses electric MU trains. You can read here that
there are several locations on this system with grades over 4%. https://www.nyctransitforums.com/topic/39935‐what‐
is‐the‐steepest‐grade‐that‐subway‐cars‐can‐handle/

Respectfully,

Phil Burton
                                                              1
Carnahan, David

From:                    Tracy Mallory <tracylists1@gmail.com>
Sent:                    Monday, November 19, 2018 10:03 AM
To:                      Council, City
Subject:                 grade separation of rail crossings


As one of many residents commenting on the project, I’d like to ask if the project evaluation criteria ever included loss of
property value with the various options, and also ask again why the reversed hybrid option has been dismissed?

If an above gade‐level option for the train of any kind is selected the increase in noise, especially at night and the visual
blight (especially during the day;‐) will obviously have a dramatic effect on the value of properties on either side of the
tracks, with greater reductions closer to the rail line.

It should not be hard to get some “real” estimates, but the following is more likely to be low than high.

Conservatively:
  1 mile of significanlty impacted housing, call it 50 lot lengths along the route, but could be twice this
  5 lots deep on each side seriously affected ‐ lose 10% property value
  10 lots further on each sidely moderately affected ‐ lose 5% property value
  10 lots further mildly affected ‐ lose 2.5% property value

On east side average property value is ?? 2.5M
On west side average property value is ?? 2M

((250 * 2M) + (250 * 2.5M)) * 0.1 +
((500 * 2M) + (500 * 2.5M)) * 0.05 +
((500 * 2M) + (500 * 2.5M)) * 0.025

= $281,250

It’s pretty clear why a lot of residents are very upset about the direct cost to them of a cheap solution. It is not
acceptable to compare this to existing raised track solutions farther north. Once you get to Redwood city there are
relatively few houses along the route, but south Palo Alto is all single‐family housing.

I’m surprised that the “other” hybrid option of raising the roads an lowering the rail line has been dismissed. I would be
very distressed by having my house taken as a result of eminent domain needs, but losing ten houses, perhaps paying
the owners twice what they are worth, would be much, much cheaper than impacting thousands of homeowners for the
rest of their lives and dividing the south end of the city permanently with visual as well as a physical wall. We don’t need
massive structures of the magnitude of San Antonio Road. Although fairly wide, the roadway could have quite a low load
limit, requiring trucks to use San Antonio or Oregon as today. Sink the train 15 feet(not 30) which would put it 17 feet
below where it is today(it’s above grade now) and raise the road 10 feet and everyone except for a few well‐
compensated home‐owners will be much happier than with any of the current plans.

Sincerely,

Tracy Mallory
650‐279‐0037

PS: Here’s the math:

>>> expr \( \( \( 500 \* 2000000 \) + \( 500 \* 2500000 \) \) \* 5 \/ 100 \) \+ \( \( \( 500 \* 2000000 \) + \( 500 \* 2500000 \) \) \* 25 \/ 1000
\) \+ \( \( \( 250 \* 2000000 \) + \( 250 \* 2500000 \) \) \* 10 \/ 100 \)
281250000
Carnahan, David

From:                  James Taylor <jamet1234@gmail.com>
Sent:                  Sunday, November 18, 2018 2:35 PM
To:                    Council, City
Subject:               Rail options in Palo Alto


Hi

A quick bit of feedback from someone currently living in Greenmeadow who grew up in England living near electrified
trains (at grade in one case, elevated on an embankment in the other case ‐ both within 2 house widths, one MUCH
more frequent than caltrain dreams of).

It seems to me that the only realistic option is to run the trains at grade level and close Charleston, Churchill and
Meadow. The track could be raised a little to allow a pedestrian / cycle path such as the one at N. California to pass
under (allowing the majority of Gunn, Paly and Fletcher students to make the crossing). San
Antonio/Oregon/University/Embarcadero are surely enough crossings for what is, at the end of the day, a small city.
Once they were closed traffic would sort itself out and the city could then invest in improving the new hotspots created.

All the other options are either prohibitively expensive (tunnels), thoroughly unpleasant for those living nearby (viaduct)
or just utterly impractical given the water table (trench and probably tunnel too).

As a city we need and should want a regular electric rail service. This means the at‐grade crossings have to go. Closing
them is the only option as no matter what people say, they won't be will be willing to pay the taxes necessary for
anything else.

I appreciate you listening to the local population but you should be realistic about what can be done. And a tunnel is too
expense, the trench seems unlikely and the viaduct will never make it past the voters.

Thanks for listening
James




                                                             1
11/27/2018                     Caltrain launches public process in San Jose on ambitious 20-year business plan - Silicon Valley Business Journal




                                         FOR THE EXCLUSIVE USE OF CNSBUCHANAN@YAHOO.COM

     From the Silicon Valley Business Journal:
     https://www.bizjournals.com/sanjose/news/2018/11/27/caltrain-business-plan-electrification-
     ridership.html



  Caltrain launches public process on ambitious 20-year business
  plan
  Nov 27, 2018, 5:57am PST

  Subscriber-Only Article Preview                I   For full site access: Subscribe Now


   Electric trains from Gilroy to San Francisco. Speeds topping 100 miles
   per hour. BART-like frequencies. No grade crossings.

   Caltrain has begun working on its first business plan in years, one that
   looks ahead two decades to a time when the railroad could be
   carrying nearly a quarter-million passengers a day, four times as many
   as now, taking a bigger bite out of the Peninsula travel market.

   "This corridor is the envy of nearly every city that has a commuter                                     CALTRAIN

   railroad," Sebastian Petty, Caltrain's senior policy advisor, said Monday                               An artist's rendering of one of the new electric tra ins
                                                                                                           that Caltrain has ordered from Stadler Rail AG in
   night at a community meeting in San Jose. The meeting was the last of                                   Sw itzerland . The trains are now being bu ilt in
   three in each of the Caltrain-served counties that's being used to kick                                 Stad ler's Salt La ke City plant.

   off the public part of the two-year work schedule to develop the plan.

   "There's no way we could build this railroad today where it is because it goes right through the center of
   every city we serve."

   Not only did Peninsula cities sprout around stations on the 155-year-old line - exactly the kind of
   transportation hubs modern city planners dream of - but Silicon Valley's growth has created two-way
   commutes filling seats on trains in both directions, efficiencies that simply don't exist on the vast majority
   of similar railroads elsewhere in the world.

   Petty said plans being explored for the future rely heavily on two assumptions: That the full railroad will be
   converted to electric operation and that high-speed rail, which has planned since 2013 for its trains to share
   its tracks, will actually be built so that that project can continue to share in the costs of upgrading and
   mainta ining the line.

   "This is really not a 'greenfield exercise,"' Petty said . "The Caltrain corridor is about as far from a green field
   as you can get. We're talking about visions, not blue-sky planning, that really exist within this framework of
   existing policy decisions. There a number of those but probably biggest one is the commitment to high-
   speed rail."

   In its most recent two-year business plan, the California High-Speed Rail Authority extended its plan for
   " blended service" - conventional and high-speed tra ins sharing track between Sa n Francisco and San Jose

 https://www.bizjoumals.com/sanjose/news/2018/11 /27 /caltrain-business-plan-electrification-ridership.html?s=print                                                   1/2
11/27/2018                    Caltrain launches public process in San Jose on ambitious 20-year business plan - Silicon Valley Business Journal

  - all the way south to Gilroy, Caltrain's current terminus.

  That would save money for high-speed rail construction and allow Caltrain to switch exclusively to faster
  electric trains . It's also the kind of improvement that was endangered in early 2017 when California's
  Republican congressional delegation temporarily blocked the federal share of funding to begin Caltrain's
  $1.9 billion electrification project on the Peninsula because it would help high-speed rail.

  Electrification work is now under way with about a third of funding coming from high-speed rail. The first
  electric Caltrain service is scheduled for 2020.

  Petty said one of the most immediate challenges for the plan to address is how to reduce or eliminate the
  42 street grade crossing s that still exist on the line, which means traffic backs up when trains pass through
  and railroad speeds are limited. It costs about $100 million to convert each crossing to a bridge or
  underpass, he said.

  Jody Meacham
  Reporter
  Silicon Valley Business Journal




https:l/www.bizjoumals.comlsanjoselnewsl2018111127lcaltrain-business-plan-electrification-ridership.html?s=print                                  212
                                                       	  
	  
November	  12,	  2018	  
	  
	  
Subject:	  Recommendation	  of	  adding	  alternative	  of	  short	  tunnel	  for	  electrified	  trains	  only	  with	  
freight	  at	  the	  surface	  for	  Meadow	  and	  Charleston	  alternatives.	  	  
	  
	  
Dear	  City	  Council	  Members,	  	  
	  
We	  support	  the	  Staff	  Report	  recommendation	  to	  not	  eliminate	  any	  grade	  separation	  
alternatives	  at	  this	  time.	  While	  the	  Viaduct	  is	  the	  least	  favored	  alternative,	  it	  remains	  worthy	  of	  
further	  analysis	  because	  it	  is	  the	  lowest	  cost	  and	  allows	  more	  connectivity	  than	  a	  Hybrid	  (which	  
functions	  effectively	  as	  a	  wall).	  	  
	  
In	  addition,	  we	  would	  like	  to	  propose	  an	  alternative	  that	  was	  mentioned	  previously:	  a	  short	  
tunnel	  for	  electrified	  trains,	  with	  freight	  remaining	  at	  the	  surface.	  The	  slope,	  clearance,	  
ventilation	  and	  Fire	  Life	  Safety	  requirements	  driven	  by	  freight	  and	  other	  diesel	  trains	  in	  the	  
tunnels	  add	  significant	  costs	  to	  the	  tunnel	  proposal	  currently	  under	  consideration.	  	  Freight	  
tentatively	  remaining	  at	  the	  surface	  for	  the	  present	  would	  not	  liberate	  all	  of	  the	  ROW	  land	  for	  
other	  uses,	  but	  the	  vehicular	  crossing	  capacity	  issue	  would	  be	  addressed.	  	  	  
	  
A	  key	  condition	  has	  recently	  changed	  along	  the	  corridor	  making	  this	  a	  feasible	  alternative;	  
Caltrain	  is	  no	  longer	  considering	  running	  both	  diesel	  and	  electric	  trains	  and	  will	  now	  have	  a	  fully	  
electric	  fleet.	  In	  addition,	  the	  Dumbarton	  Rail	  project	  recently	  received	  approval	  to	  begin	  its	  
investigation	  of	  whether	  to	  rebuild	  the	  old	  rail	  bridge	  that	  formerly	  carried	  freight	  across	  the	  
Bay.	  	  If	  this	  came	  to	  fruition,	  freight	  might	  be	  partially	  or	  fully	  diverted	  to	  a	  Dumbarton	  route	  
and	  no	  longer	  pass	  through	  Palo	  Alto,	  leaving	  the	  right-­‐of-­‐way	  above	  the	  tunnel	  free	  for	  other	  
uses.	  	  	  
	  
We	  have	  identified	  a	  similar	  tunneling	  project,	  the	  San	  Francisco	  Central	  Subway	  Tunnel,	  
which	  seems	  to	  indicate	  that	  tunneling	  may	  even	  be	  much	  cheaper	  than	  a	  trench.	  	  
	  
HMM	  Trench	  Study:	  
	  
As	  you	  may	  recall,	  in	  2014,	  HMM	  gave	  a	  rough	  estimated	  cost	  for	  a	  trench	  below	  Meadow	  and	  
Charleston	  at	  $488	  Million	  (in	  2014	  dollars).	  	  
	  
Here	  was	  the	  breakdown:	  	  
	                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2	  


	  




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           	  
	  
	  
Central	  Subway	  Tunnel	  Without	  Freight	  
	  
Also	  in	  2014,	  the	  Central	  Subway	  project	  in	  San	  Francisco	  completed	  a	  1.7	  mile	  dual	  subway	  
tunnel	  using	  two	  20.7	  ft	  diameter	  tunnel	  boring	  machines	  (TBM).	  While	  the	  overall	  cost	  of	  the	  
project	  is	  very	  high,	  the	  vast	  majority	  of	  the	  cost	  is	  related	  to	  several	  very	  deep	  and	  complex	  
stations.	  The	  cost	  to	  complete	  the	  tunnel	  portion	  of	  the	  project:	  $234	  million	  dollars	  (2014	  
dollars).	  For	  reference,	  the	  distance	  from	  Loma	  Verde	  Ave	  to	  San	  Antonio	  Road	  in	  Palo	  Alto	  is	  
1.6	  miles.	  Palo	  Alto	  would	  likely	  have	  a	  additional	  costs	  beyond	  what	  was	  needed	  on	  the	  
subway	  project	  (signaling,	  larger	  diameter	  bore,	  etc.)	  but	  the	  price	  difference	  is	  worth	  
investigating	  and	  maybe	  minimal	  with	  the	  use	  of	  a	  single	  bore	  tunnel.	  
	  
Unlike	  Palo	  Alto’s	  right	  of	  way,	  these	  tunnels	  were	  built	  in	  densely	  urban	  San	  Francisco	  and	  
under	  an	  active	  BART	  line1.	  The	  TBMs	  went	  through	  various	  soils	  ranging	  from	  soft	  soils	  to	  
thinly	  bedded	  siltstone,	  shale	  and	  sandstone	  bedrock	  -­‐	  with	  some	  area	  designated	  as	  
“Potentially	  Gassy	  with	  Special	  Conditions”	  by	  Cal/OSHA2.	  The	  TBMs	  also	  had	  to	  navigate	  the	  
	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  
1	            http://www.therobbinscompany.com/project-category/epb-tbm/	  
	  
2	            http://www.therobbinscompany.com/project-category/epb-tbm/	  
	                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3	  


steep	  and	  turning	  alignment	  in	  an	  area	  where	  they	  dealt	  with	  low	  cover,	  nearby	  utilities,	  and	  
sensitive	  structures	  requiring	  analyses	  and	  precautions	  to	  limit	  settlement	  impact	  and	  ensure	  
the	  structures	  in	  downtown	  SF	  were	  safe.	  	  Given	  Palo	  Alto	  is	  in	  a	  suburban	  area	  with	  less	  
constraints,	  it	  seems	  reasonable	  to	  consider	  this	  alternative	  closely.	  	  
	  
Palo	  Alto	  Short	  Tunnel	  
	  
Another	  way	  to	  reduce	  the	  cost	  of	  a	  tunnel	  is	  to	  reduce	  the	  diameter.	  In	  2014,	  the	  High	  Speed	  
Rail	  Authority’s	  White	  Paper	  on	  Tunneling	  describes	  how	  they	  achieved	  significant	  cost	  
reductions	  by	  reducing	  maximum	  operating	  speeds	  assumptions	  in	  the	  tunnels	  from	  220	  mph	  
to	  200	  mph,	  thereby	  allowing	  them	  to	  reduce	  tunnel	  diameters	  from	  29.5’	  to	  28’	  ID	  (Inside	  
Diameter).	  3	  
	  
CARRD	  requested	  from	  AECOM	  information	  on	  the	  tunnel	  assumptions	  being	  used	  for	  the	  City	  
wide	  tunnel	  (which	  include	  freight)	  and	  they	  responded	  that	  they	  are	  using	  a	  “28	  ft	  Inside	  
Diameter	  Tunnel”	  which	  would	  large	  enough	  to	  allow	  200	  mph	  speeds.	  A	  significantly	  smaller	  
diameter	  would	  be	  required	  to	  accommodate	  planned	  speeds	  of	  110	  mph.	  And,	  as	  noted	  in	  our	  
previous	  public	  comment	  on	  height	  clearances,	  the	  Caltrain	  Electrification	  EIR	  specifically	  notes	  
that	  the	  clearance	  levels	  at	  the	  San	  Francisquito	  creek	  bridge	  (where	  freight	  passes	  today)	  is	  
actually	  19ft.	  It	  is	  therefore	  worth	  investigating	  whether	  the	  tunnel	  dimensions	  for	  a	  short,	  
electrified	  train	  only	  tunnel	  in	  Palo	  Alto	  where	  maximum	  speed	  for	  both	  Caltrain	  and	  HSR	  is	  110	  
miles	  per	  hour	  would	  allow	  us	  to	  have	  a	  tunnel	  diameter	  that	  is	  less	  than	  28’.	  	  
	  
Other	  key	  things	  to	  consider	  for	  the	  short	  tunnel	  with	  freight	  on	  the	  surface	  (EOT)	  option:	  	  
	  
       • Without	  freight,	  the	  1%	  grade	  requirement	  could	  more	  readily	  change	  to	  2%	  or	  even	  3%	  
             grade,	  which	  would	  allow	  for	  more	  design	  flexibility.	  
       • Caltrain	  and	  freight	  could	  continue	  operations	  during	  construction	  with	  minimal	  
             disruption	  except	  at	  the	  site	  of	  tunnel	  boring	  machine	  entrance	  and	  exit.	  
       • Traffic	  during	  construction	  would	  be	  minimally	  disrupted	  
       • Tunnels	  in	  stations	  are	  expensive,	  but	  this	  option	  would	  not	  impact	  stations	  
       • Tunnels	  are	  faster	  to	  build.	  Construction	  time	  is	  dramatically	  reduced	  because	  the	  work	  
             window	  issues	  and	  the	  phasing	  required	  on	  the	  road	  side	  are	  much	  less.	  	  
       • It	  would	  go	  under	  the	  utilities,	  reducing	  the	  cost.	  	  
       • It	  could	  go	  under	  the	  creeks.	  	  
       • It	  does	  not	  impact	  the	  streets.	  	  
       • The	  equivalent	  of	  shoofly	  tracks	  are	  needed	  near	  the	  portal,	  but	  not	  along	  the	  entire	  
             right-­‐of-­‐way.	  	  



	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  
	  
3	  California High-Speed Rail Program Whitepaper On Cost Reduction Strategies, July 25, 2014

	  
	                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4	  


          •          With	  careful	  planning	  and	  analysis,	  TBM’s	  can	  be	  reused	  -­‐	  perhaps	  by	  other	  cities	  along	  
                     the	  corridor.	  4	  
          •          In	  the	  future,	  some	  or	  all	  freight	  could	  be	  re-­‐routed	  over	  the	  Dumbarton	  Rail	  route	  
                     (currently	  being	  studied)	  thus	  freeing	  up	  space	  along	  the	  right-­‐of-­‐way	  for	  other	  potential	  
                     land	  use	  options.	  
          •          Temporary	  space	  for	  the	  tunnel	  portal	  may	  be	  necessary	  and	  could	  require	  minimal	  
                     eminent	  domain	  that	  could	  be	  returned	  to	  the	  housing	  stock	  on	  completion	  of	  the	  
                     project.	  	  
          •          The	  ROW	  closer	  to	  San	  Antonio	  road	  is	  much	  wider	  than	  other	  parts	  of	  the	  City	  (150	  ft	  
                     wide).	  If	  the	  TBM	  was	  launched	  from	  that	  end,	  then	  the	  removal	  requires	  less	  space.	  	  
	  
To	  see	  the	  space	  required	  for	  extracting	  a	  TBM,	  see	  this	  video	  showing	  the	  removal	  of	  the	  TBMs	  
used	  on	  the	  Central	  Subway	  project	  in	  SF.	  https://bit.ly/2PpntNC	  	  Note	  the	  size	  of	  the	  
extraction	  point	  is	  quite	  small.	  	  
	  
Summary:	  	  
	  
Preliminary	  design	  of	  grade	  separations	  are	  vague	  and	  costs	  climb	  when	  one	  considers	  the	  
issues	  of	  staging,	  prolonged	  construction,	  utility	  relocation,	  ground	  water	  issues,	  and	  
maintaining	  operations	  on	  a	  heavily	  trafficked	  railway	  during	  construction.	  What	  initially	  seems	  
like	  a	  cheaper	  solution,	  can	  become	  expensive	  quickly	  when	  these	  costs	  are	  all	  tallied	  up.	  For	  
this	  reason,	  we	  support	  the	  inclusion	  of	  a	  short	  electric	  train	  only	  tunnel	  with	  freight	  on	  the	  
surface.	  	  
	  
If	  you	  would	  like	  any	  additional	  information	  or	  have	  any	  additional	  questions,	  please	  let	  us	  
know.	  	  
	  
	  
Sincerely,	  	  
	  
Nadia	  Naik	  and	  Elizabeth	  Alexis	  
Co-­‐founders	  
CARRD	  
	  




	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  
4	   https://www.herrenknecht.com/en/services/global-services/tbm-refurbishment.html

	  
                                                                                     RAIL       MEETING

                                                                                 ✔
                                                                                         11/27/2018
                                                                                     Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                               1
Carnahan, David

From:             gmahany@aol.com
Sent:             Tuesday, November 27, 2018 12:08 PM
To:               Shikada, Ed; De Geus, Robert; Council, City; cory.wolbach@gmail.com; adrianfine@gmail.com; Filseth,
                  Eric (external); kou.pacc@gmail.com; tomforcouncil@gmail.com; greg@gregtanaka.org; Scharff,
                  Greg; electcormack@gmail.com
Subject:          Viaduct noise cansulation at grade railcrossings



hello all
I know that there is a reflex to say that a viaduct is just an eye sore but for affordability we may
have to accept an eye sore. However, when I am not looking at the viaduct, I do not want to
hear it.
Noise cancellation features to the viaduct design are a must have.
AECOM consultants show sound walls for noise cancellation, this is a good design feature.
Other noise cancellation features like resilient material to isolate the rails from rail platform
should also be used especially on the bridges over Charleston Rd and Meadow Ave.
Gary Mahany




                                                        1
                                                                                             RAIL       MEETING
                                                                                                 11/27/2018
                                                                                         ✔
                                                                                             Received Before Meeting
Carnahan, David

From:             Neilson Buchanan <cnsbuchanan@yahoo.com>
Sent:             Tuesday, November 27, 2018 9:36 AM
To:               Council, City
Cc:               Dave Price; Gennady Sheyner
Subject:          SOS for the Rail Committee meeting Nov 27
Attachments:      181127 Caltrain 20 year business plan SV Biz Journal Nov 27 2018.pdf



SOS = seriously out of sync

When I read the attached SV Business Journal coverage [Nov 27] of Caltrain and HSR, I had an out
of body experience. Should I even be concerned at age 74; I have actuarial probability of 11.7 more
years of life.

Based on Caltrain record of success, I don't seriously consider Caltrain's 20-year planning.

20-year planning does not have to be totally fact-based but some of Caltrain's HSR options may not
exist for me or anyone else.

It is very hard to reconcile the gap between our Caltrain grade crossings' pressures and the happy-
face projected by Caltrain's senior policy adviser.

I urge Palo Alto and other SC County cities create more order out of this chaos.



Neilson Buchanan
155 Bryant Street
Palo Alto, CA 94301

650 329-0484
650 537-9611 cell
cnsbuchanan@yahoo.com




                                                       1
                                                                                             RAIL       MEETING
                                                                                                 11/27/2018
                                                                                         ✔
                                                                                             Received Before Meeting
Carnahan, David

From:             Neilson Buchanan <cnsbuchanan@yahoo.com>
Sent:             Tuesday, November 27, 2018 9:36 AM
To:               Council, City
Cc:               Dave Price; Gennady Sheyner
Subject:          SOS for the Rail Committee meeting Nov 27
Attachments:      181127 Caltrain 20 year business plan SV Biz Journal Nov 27 2018.pdf



SOS = seriously out of sync

When I read the attached SV Business Journal coverage [Nov 27] of Caltrain and HSR, I had an out
of body experience. Should I even be concerned at age 74; I have actuarial probability of 11.7 more
years of life.

Based on Caltrain record of success, I don't seriously consider Caltrain's 20-year planning.

20-year planning does not have to be totally fact-based but some of Caltrain's HSR options may not
exist for me or anyone else.

It is very hard to reconcile the gap between our Caltrain grade crossings' pressures and the happy-
face projected by Caltrain's senior policy adviser.

I urge Palo Alto and other SC County cities create more order out of this chaos.



Neilson Buchanan
155 Bryant Street
Palo Alto, CA 94301

650 329-0484
650 537-9611 cell
cnsbuchanan@yahoo.com




                                                       1
       Monday, December 3, 2018

      Dan Richard
      Chairman of the Board of Directors
      California High Speed Rail Authority

      Dan‐ Here is a Fresno Bee article re the fireworks in Sacramento over the auditor's report:

    https://www.fresnobee.com/news/local/high‐speed‐
rail/article222399890.html?utm_source=Morning+Roundup&utm_campaign=3764128db3‐
EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2018_12_03_04_29&utm_medium=email&utm_term=0_165ffe36b2‐3764128db3‐
78450701&mc_cid=3764128db3&mc_eid=7afa3a94f3

      No doubt some of the criticism is valid, but the bulk of the opposition comes from Republicans who want to deny
the American people the lavish lifestyle that we provide to the Japanese, Germans and other Europeans and to the
Koreans. I think the Republicans are bribed and bribed lavishly to do that.

      Seen in that light, the rich Republicans who bankroll the opposition to high speed rail in California are revealed as
the borderline traitors that they are. The United States supplies a free military defense for all of Europe, Japan, S. Korea,
Taiwan, and a lot of other places, and we have done so since 1945. Those countries then spend their military money on
high speed rail, affordable universities, magnificent national health care systems, and a lot more. All over the world, the
American people are held in contempt for letting their government kick them around like that. The American political
system is now hard‐wired to ruin the lives of the American people and to enrich the lives of the people of Europe, Japan
and Korea. This total Republican opposition to California high speed rail is emblematic of that perversion.

      The Republican scum who are trying to stop California high speed rail rely on the ignorance of the American voters.
The schools in the United States are some of the worst in the world, by design. Trump's defense budget is $716 billion.
That of Britain is 50 billion pounds. A U.S. defense budget of $400 billion would probably be an obscene waste of money.
The American people are bled white to pay to defend much of the free‐loading world. They get high speed rail, and we
get little border‐line traitors like Jim Patterson yelling his head off in Sacramento trying to deny HSR to the American
people. The American people should wake up to this fraud and remove people like Patterson from our political life. He's
a paid hatchet man for the Republicans.

      The American people need to take action against the Republican scum who work tirelessly to ruin their lives. We
need a political revolution in the United States, if not a real one. Then we need to see our money spent to improve the
lives of the American people. I think we have done enough to atone for defeating Germany and Japan in WWII, if that is
what this is about.

      It is mainly about keeping the population of the Central Valley ignorant and exploitable by the rich Republicans
who rule the roost here. To have educated, high income Silicon Valley people buy homes here would be to open the
eyes of the poor people who exist here now. To enable people here to get high‐paying jobs in Silicon Valley would be to
empower them, and the Republicans who own the Central Valley want to keep them powerless.

     Again, just consider that we spend $716 to provide a free military defense for much of the world, many of whom
have high speed rail, and the Republicans fight desperately to deny it to the American people. That starts to meet the
definition of treason. I have very strong feelings about the Republicans, and I restrain myself from expressing them fully.

     Please hang in there, Chairman Richard. You have done an impossible job very well.

    L. William Harding
    Fresno


                                                              2
           OCTOBER 2018 EMAILS TO CITY.COUNCIL ABOUT
            CONNECTING PALO ALTO GRADE SEPARATION
From:           Amie Neff
To:             Council, City
Subject:        Elimination of the viaduct
Date:           Wednesday, October 17, 2018 10:49:29 AM


I vehemently oppose elimination of the viadct option without also eliminating the hybrid
option.

Between the two above ground options I feel the viaduct offers a much better option for the
community for the following reasons:

It opens up space below the raised rail for landscaping, possible bike or walking lanes, and
should train ever become obsolete, offers the community a walking path option to reclaim.

The hybrid will visually divide our city, it will severely degrade housing values, block light in
people's yards, and be a general eyesore.

If you plan on keeping any elevated options on the table at all, which I believe is a different
question entirely, do not eliminate the viaduct.

Thank you
Amie Neff
From:           Jagdish Pamnani
To:             Council, City
Subject:        Grade separation at Meadow and Charleston rail crossings
Date:           Tuesday, October 16, 2018 8:33:50 PM


Dear City Council Rail Committee,

I live a few blocks from the Meadow rail crossing. My strongly preferred choice for both the
Meadow and Charleston crossing is the shallow trench option as it significantly reduces the
noise of passing trains, hides the train below grade level and allows a slightly elevated road
over rail. However, to make this choice as cost-effective as possible, we need to do the
following:

1. Get Caltrain to approve a 2% grade, publish the progress of this issue as a standing agenda
item for the CAP and city council meetings.

2. Get Caltrain to approve 18.5ft top of rail to bridge clearance instead of 24.5ft, publish the
progress of this issue as a standing agenda item for the CAP and city council meetings.

The residents (550 of them who signed the petition) also need an update on the "Tunnel
Option". AECOM / Rail Committee cannot make the unilateral decision to suddenly stop the
tunnel option and merge this option with the Shallow Trench.
There are two distinct options: Shallow trench and the Tunnel for Charleston/Meadow should
be analyzed with Caltrain electric for tunnel and freight single rail at grade. The
CAP/Residents need to be provided with detailed analysis on both these options.

Also to keep the options to three, merge the least popular options of raised rail ( Hybrid and
Viaduct) into one.

Items 1, 2 will significantly reduce costs of whatever final option is chosen so it is extremely
important for the council to get answers to these questions before making any final decision.

Regards, Jagdish
From:             Wolfgang Dueregger
To:               Council, City
Cc:               Paul Machado; Neilson Buchanan; Carol Scott
Subject:          Grade separation
Date:             Monday, October 22, 2018 4:58:51 PM


Dear City Council,

there has been a lot of discussion, lots of money spent on studies (in the hundreds of
thousands) but so far no actionable solution has been found how/if to separate the rail tracks
from the car crossings along the train tracks running through Palo Alto.

We always hear tunneling is too expensive. Is it? Can you show us the numbers from an actual
bid received from the Boring Company?

Please read on:

https://www.nbcnews.com/business/business-news/elon-musk-says-his-first-tunnel-will-open-
december-n922726

This happens 400 miles south of us.

And we, Palo Altans, always wanting to be ahead of everybody else, cannot ?

Why have you, Dear Council, not done this so far?

Once the numbers are on the table one can tackle the difficult question of how to raise the
money, but first we need to know what the numbers actually are.

Please do not loose even more time by trying to solve problems (like over/underpass) for
which you will not get a majority from the residents but start working on something that can
be a solution, i.e. tunneling through the whole length of Palo Alto. And once Palo Alto puts
the stakes into the ground, it would be very surprising if neighboring cities would not follow
suit and join Palo Alto in a deep tunnel bored by the Boring Company.

thanks

Wolfgang Dueregger

P.S.:I have no affiliation whatsoever with Tesla, Elon Musk or the Boring Company.
From:           Amie Neff
To:             Council, City; Keene, James; Shikada, Ed; De Geus, Robert
Cc:             Mandar Borkar
Subject:        Public Comment , Wednesday October 17th. Caltrain Grade Separation
Date:           Tuesday, October 16, 2018 9:16:43 AM


Good Morning Council and Rail Committee Members,

I'd like to address the committee and and our city transportation specialists about a few
clarifications and requests I believe are crucial before moving forward with the very costly and
important decision about how to address Caltrain's pending electrification and increased
ridership goals.

I would like to thank the committee for their time, and the city for providing access to the big
Design Boards that were presented at the August 23rd meeting. I was not able to attend that
meeting and am glad to be able to see what is being discussed with more time and attention.
You provided enough information that I see where each option begins and ends, the depth or
height of the tracks, and the slope profile.

There are notable omissions on the "Typical Section" images which makes it difficult to
understand how each alternative might look.
PLEASE SEE:
https://pagradesep.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/08/Meadow-Dr-Charleston-Rd-Viaduct-
Full-Trench-MCV-MCT.pdf

The 100' graphical scale in the right hand bottom corner is only applicable to the already
graphed section and mapped segment. That scale doesn't apply to the "Typical Sections" of the
train in the trench, or elevated options on either board.

In fact, the Typical Sections, (images which are most relatable to us,) have no scale, no
context and no dimensions. Other than information about track height or depth, I have no way
of understanding, if I live along Park, how close that wall or viaduct will to be to my back
deck or roofline or how high it is in relation to my house. I know the average home heights
along the track are 12'-0", if the tracks might be 3'-0 or even 8'-0" above the top of my house,
how high will the train be? How tall is a train?

I hope that we can ask the team who put together these boards to go a small step further in
giving us a sense of the proposals that corresponds to our understanding of the real world. It
doesn’t take much to draw in a tree, a house, a car, or a person for context, but it informs our
understanding enormously.

More importantly, I want to make it clear that without an approval from CalTrain that we can
design with a 2% grade, the option to trench in South Palo Alto is not on the table. Why
continue to entertain a trenching option without that approval? I would ask that the City
Council do their due diligence. Request the following design assurances and clarifications
from Caltrain:
1) Grant us permission to design for 2% grade due to the streams we are working around.
2) Elsewhere clearance height for trains is 18-1/2', why are we being held to different design
standard of 24-1/2'? Can we shoot for the lower clearance?
3) We would like clarification about what options we have to reclaim the space returned to us
in the right of way now occupied by the rails should we chose to construct a tunnel or a
viaduct. Will that space be available to Palo Alto's community?

Finally, I would like the committee to leave among our options the construction of a short,
shallow tunnel between San Antonio and Cal Ave stations that allowed the freight to remain in
place above and CalTrain to go in a tunnel below. It can be lumped into the city wide tunnel
option.

Many Regards,
--
Amie Neff
M.Arch, LEED® AP
From:             pol1@rosenblums.us
To:               Council, City
Subject:          Rail Committee Agenda Item 1 October 17th 2018
Date:             Saturday, October 13, 2018 2:45:33 PM


Members of the Rail Committee:
I have long been an advocate for the city wide tunnel option because I believe it offers the best
outcome for the long term future of Palo Alto. There would be complete east west connectivity with
the railroad right of way no longer blocking views or minimizing the number of cross connections. I
do not accept the position that any option for grade separation that does not make the situation
worse is acceptable, For a community with our values and wealth it should be possible to come up
with a more fitting solution such as Berkeley was able to do with their BART tunnel. Financing is the
main issue and needs to be looked at seriously with all options on the table. This has not been done.
I outright reject any option that allows the rail bed to rise above ground level as this requires the
construction of a long dirt wall which would further separate the east and west sides of our city with
an even more visually imposing physical barrier with NO likelihood of improved east-west
connectivity.
For this reason, I urge you all to put the alternative of rail on raised pylons (viaduct) as one of the
alternatives on our list. To me it is the second best alternative to a bored tunnel as it allows full east-
west connectivity, allowing passage under the tracks as deemed suitable by future traffic studies and
our Comprehensive Plan. The area under the tracks could become a green space or developed
commercially.
As has been pointed out many times by Nadia Naik in the past and Council Member Wolbach
recently, we need to do some serious investigation into the issue of freight traffic on the right of
way. This has extremely serious cost and noise issues associated with any chosen solutions. If it were
possible to buy out the freight option, this might offer a very cost effective solution.

Stephen Rosenblum
Santa Rita Ave, Palo Alto
From:            Kellerman, Thomas W.
To:              De Geus, Robert
Cc:              Shikada, Ed; Council, City; Megan Kanne; Rachel Kellerman
Subject:         Rail Crossing Planning Process
Date:            Sunday, October 21, 2018 7:01:43 PM
Attachments:     Rail Committee Ltr.docx


Dear Mr. de Geus:

Please see the attached letter regarding the Palo Alto rail crossing planning process. Residents of
the Professorville and University South neighborhoods would like to arrange a meeting with the
appropriate City staff to discuss the inclusion of mitigation measures in the scope of the alternatives
under consideration. We are writing to you given that the position formerly held by Josh Mello is
currently vacant. Please feel free to contact us to arrange a time that fits within your schedule or to
identify the appropriate staff member with whom we should meet. Thank you.

Regards,

Tom and Rachel Kellerman


DISCLAIMER
This e-mail message is intended only for the personal use
of the recipient(s) named above. This message may be an
attorney-client communication and as such privileged and
confidential and/or it may include attorney work product.
If you are not an intended recipient, you may not review,
copy or distribute this message. If you have received this
communication in error, please notify us immediately by
e-mail and delete the original message.
From:            gmahany@aol.com
To:              Council, City
Subject:         rail noise mitigation
Date:            Monday, October 15, 2018 9:27:21 AM
Attachments:     RAIL SYSTEM NOISE AND VIBRATION CONTROL.pdf
                 IPOL-TRAN_ET(2012)474533_EN-one.pdf


Hello Rail Committee
Please find attached the some information on how noise from railroad trains and tracks are generated
and how to muffle that noise.
ANNEX III: COMPARISON OF
COVERAGE OF BOGIES
FROM DIFFERENT MODERN
ROLLING
STOCK EQUIPMENT on page165
     DIRECTORATE GENERAL FOR INTERNAL POLICIES
POLICY DEPARTMENT B: STRUCTURAL AND COHESION POLICIES


              TRANSPORT AND TOURISM




REDUCING RAILWAY NOISE POLLUTION




                      STUDY
This document was requested by the European Parliament's Committee on Transport and
Tourism.

AUTHORS

Uwe CLAUSEN
Claus DOLL
Francis James FRANKLIN
Gordana Vasic FRANKLIN
Hilmar HEINRICHMEYER
Joachim KOCHSIEK
Werner ROTHENGATTER
Niklas SIEBER

RESPONSIBLE ADMINISTRATOR

Piero SOAVE
Policy Department Structural and Cohesion Policies
European Parliament
B-1047 Brussels
E-mail: poldep-cohesion@europarl.europa.eu

EDITORIAL ASSISTANCE

Nora REVESZ

LINGUISTIC VERSIONS

Original: EN.
Translations: DE, FR.

ABOUT THE EDITOR

To contact the Policy Department or to subscribe to its monthly newsletter please write to:
poldep-cohesion@europarl.europa.eu

Manuscript completed in March 2012.
Brussels, © European Union, 2012.

This document is available on the Internet at:
http://www.europarl.europa.eu/studies

DISCLAIMER

The opinions expressed in this document are the sole responsibility of the author and do
not necessarily represent the official position of the European Parliament.

Reproduction and translation for non-commercial purposes are authorised, provided the
source is acknowledged and the publisher is given prior notice and sent a copy.
       DIRECTORATE GENERAL FOR INTERNAL POLICIES
POLICY DEPARTMENT B: STRUCTURAL AND COHESION POLICIES


                      TRANSPORT AND TOURISM




REDUCING RAILWAY NOISE POLLUTION


                                   STUDY



    Abstract

    12 million EU inhabitants are affected by railway noise during the day
    and 9 million during the night. This study lists measures, funding and
    regulations to reduce it. The introduction of modern rolling stock will
    lower noise most significantly. In the short run, the replacement of cast
    iron by composite brake blocks on rail freight cars is most important.
    Developing a regulation scheme for a staged process towards low-noise
    rolling stock is the heart of a rail noise abatement strategy.




IP/B/TRAN/FWC/2010-006/LOT4/C1/SC2                                        2012

PE 474.533                                                                      EN
                                                                 Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
____________________________________________________________________________________________



CONTENTS

LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS                                                                         5

LIST OF TABLES                                                                                7

LIST OF FIGURES                                                                               9

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY                                                                           11

1. DEFINITIONS AND EFFECTS OF NOISE                                                         15
   1.1. Noise and railway noise                                                             15
   1.2. Measurement of noise                                                                15
   1.3. Effects of noise                                                                    16
   1.4. Results of noise mapping                                                            17
   1.5. Environmental groups and affected inhabitants                                       19

2. LEGAL FRAMEWORK                                                                          23
   2.1. General recommendations, limits and thresholds for environmental noise              23
   2.2. Environmental Noise Directive 2002/49/EC                                            29
   2.3. Recast of the First Railway Package                                                 41
   2.4. TSI Noise                                                                           42
   2.5. Measuring and computing of railway noise                                            43

3. RAIL NOISE – SOURCES AND PREVENTION MEASURES                                             47
   3.1. Sources of railway noise                                                            47
   3.2. Noise emissions in relation to rolling stock                                        50
   3.3. Measures to avoid railway noise                                                     53
   3.4. Result for main reduction measures                                                  63
   3.5. Number of rail freight wagons to be retrofitted                                     68

4. CASE STUDIES                                                                             71
   4.1. General descriptions of environmental railway noise in selected areas or
        countries                                                                           71
   4.2. Detailed analysis of selected sections                                              83

5. EVALUATION                                                                               93
   5.1. Economic incentives                                                                 93
   5.2. Analysis of regulation possibilities                                                98
   5.3. Analysis of stakeholder remarks on economic incentives and regulation              100

6. CONCLUSIONS                                                                            103
   6.1. Recommendations of measures                                                        103
   6.2. Recommendations for parliamentarian activities                                     107


                                               3
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________


REFERENCES                                                                             109

Annex I
Environmental noise emissions in Member States and
agglomerations (reference [ETC 2010])                                                  117

Annex II
Maximum noise levels of rolling stock according to TSI noise                           119

Annex III
Comparison of coverage of bogies from different modern rolling
stock equipment                                                                        121

Annex IV
Important and analysed regulations                                                     123




                                                        4
                                                                 Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
____________________________________________________________________________________________



LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS

          AEA AEA Technology Rail BV, Netherlands

   BIMSchV Bundes-Immissions-Schutz-Verordnung                   (Traffic       Noise
           Ordinance of Germany)

      BMVIT Bundesministerium für Verkehr, Innovation und Technologie
            (Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology
            of Austria)

           BS British Standard

         BVU Beratergruppe Verkehr +                Umwelt      (Consultants       for
             Transport + Environment)

          CER Community         of   European     Railway    and    Infrastructure
              Companies

           DB German Rail (Deutsche Bahn)

      DEFRA Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs of UK

           DG Directorate-General of the European Commission

    DG ENTR Directorate-General Entreprise and Industry

     DG ENV Directorate-General Environment

DG Research Directorate-General Research

    DG TREN Directorate-General Transport and Energy

          DIR Directive

           EC European Council

        ECML East Coast Main Line

          EEA European Environment Agency

         EMU Electric multiple unit

           EP European Parliament

        ERFA European Rail Freight Association

   ETC LUSI European Topic Centre on Land Use and Spatial Information

           EU European Union

           FM Friction modifier

           FS National railway of Italy - Trenitalia (former Ferrovia dello
              Stato)

     K-block Composite brake block



                                            5
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________


             LDAY Average Noise Level Index day time

             LDEN Average Noise Level Index total day

      LL-block Low-low brake block

           LNIGHT Average Noise Level Index night time

         NDTAC Noise Depending Track Access Charge

             ÖBB Österreichische Bundesbahn (Federal Railway of Austria)

             PPG Planning Policy Guidance

         RENFE Spanish Railways (Red Nacional de Ferrocarriles Españoles)

              RFI Italian railway infrastructure management company - (Rete
                  Ferroviaria Italiana)

             SBB Swiss Federal Railway (Schweizer Bundesbahn)

            STIB Municiple Public transportation company of Brussels
                 (Société des transport intercommunaux de Bruxelles

             TAC Track Access Charge

             TOC Train Operating Company

             TOR Top of Rail

              TSI Technical Specification for Interoperability

             UIC International Union of Railways (Union Internationale des
                 Chemins de Fer)

             UIP International Union of Private Wagons (Union Internationale
                 des Wagons Privé)

           UIRR International Union of combined Road-Rail transport
                companies (Union internationale des sociétés de transport
                combiné Rail-Route)

           UITP International Assosiation of Public Transport

         UNIFE Association of the European Rail Industry

             VDV Association of German Transport Companies (Verband
                 Deutscher Verkehrsunternehmen)

             VPI German Association of private wagon owners (Vereinigung
                 der Privatgüterwagen-Interessenten)

          WCML West Coast Main Line

           WHO World Health Organisation




                                                        6
                                                                     Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
 ____________________________________________________________________________________________



LIST OF TABLES

Table 1
Affected people by environmental noise according to first round of noise mapping                17

Table 2
Thresholds for environmental noise at night time to avoid health risks according
to WHO recommendation                                                                           24

Table 3
German Federal Environment Agency recommendations of thresholds for action
planning                                                                                        25

Table 4
German maximum environmental noise levels for new built or modified
transportation infrastructures                                                                  26

Table 5
Austrian values of thresholds for action planning reference                                     26

Table 6
UK values of thresholds for indoor noise caused by environmental noise                          26

Table 7
Noise exposure categories for dwellings                                                         27

Table 8
Noise levels corresponding to exposure categories for dwellings                                 28

Table 9
Spanish values of thresholds for action planning                                                28

Table 10
Road map for implementation of Directive 2002/49/EG                                             30

Table 11
Additional steps in noise mapping according to [Dir. 2002/49/EC]                                31

Table 12
Schedule for noise mapping and noise reduction planning                                         31

Table 13
Status of implementation of Directive 2002/49/EG                                                32

Table 14
Actions by European Countries for noise abatement on railways where data are
available                                                                                       33

Table 15
Analysis of studies about the eligibility of rail noise incentives                              45




                                                7
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________


Table 16
Importance of noise sources                                                              48

Table 17
Maximum and realised noise emissions of existing high speed trains                       51

Table 18
Maximum and realised noise emissions of new freight wagons                               51

Table 19
Measures, effects and costs                                                              63

Table 20
Age structure of freight wagon fleet in the year 2000                                    69

Table 21
Prediction of numbers of trains on Rheintalbahn                                          72

Table 22
Share of numbers of trains on Rheintalbahn between day and night time                    73

Table 23
Affected inhabitants of railway noise in Freiburg                                        73

Table 24
Affected inhabitants of railway noise in Offenburg                                       74

Table 25
Results of the Austrian rail noise abatement programme                                   77

Table 26
Example of railway traffic data in the Susa Valley; Number of trains for an average
workday                                                                                  78

Table 27
Range of noise reduction                                                                 84

Table 28
Impacts of noise reduction measures in the Middle Rhine Valley                           85




                                                        8
                                                                   Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
____________________________________________________________________________________________


LIST OF FIGURES
Figure 1
Share of people affected by railway noise outside agglomeration according to EEA data         18

Figure 2
Protests in Rüdesheim May 2011, noise map Loreley LDEN                                        20

Figure 3
Upper Rhine Valley: Plans for Weil am Rhein and protests in Offenburg                         21

Figure 4
LDEN planning values for residential area                                                     25

Figure 6
Sources of railway noise according to train speed                                             48

Figure 7
Development of noise sources while train passing                                              49

Figure 8
Noise emission development of Swiss rolling stock                                             50

Figure 9
Noise levels of Austrian self-propelled rail vehicles                                         52

Figure 10
Noise levels of Austrian rail engines                                                         52

Figure 11
Comparison of tread and disc brakes                                                           54

Figure 12
Ring damped and perforated wheel                                                              56

Figure 13
Wheel-tuned absorbers                                                                         56

Figure 14
Wheel web shields                                                                             56

Figure 15
Tata Steel SilentTrack tuned rail dampers                                                     58

Figure 16
Left: Saargummi rail pad Right: Pandrol Vanguard resilient web support                        59

Figure 17
Slab track section SA42 from Quiet Rail Traffic project                                       59

Figure 18
Principle of way-side lubrication systems for friction modifying                              61

Figure 19
Shield of pantograph of Japanese Shinkansen Series 700                                        62




                                                9
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

Figure 20
Porous coating of pantographs                                                            62

Figure 21
Shift of noise levels on German railway lines due to introduction of composite iron
soles for rail freight wagons                                                            65

Figure 22
Cost benefit analysis of measures to reduce noise in STAIRRS project                     66

Figure 23
Effect on total noise according to share of wagons equipped with K- or LL-blocks         67

Figure 24
Estimated number of freight cars                                                         69

Figure 25
Direction of sound spreading (sound rays) during day                                     75

Figure 26:
Direction of sound spreading (sound rays) during night                                   76

Figure 27
Impacts of noise protection barriers in Jenbach, Inn Valley, Austria                     78

Figure 28
Noise pollution in the Fréjus Corridor                                                   79

Figure 29
Noise pollution index (NPI) due to simultaneous exposure to rail and road sources        80

Figure 30
Interpretation of the NPI values                                                         80

Figure 31
Effects of rail noise barriers on the number of inhabitants of agglomerations in
England                                                                                  82

Figure 32
Important Areas, Noise Action Plan for Sheffield, England                                83

Figure 33
Section Koblenz - Bingen, impacts of measures                                            84

Figure 34
Left: View of Blackfriars Railway Bridge from the south bank [Thameslink 2005].
Right: First Capital Connect Class 319 EMU.                                              86

Figure 35
Overview of viaducts/bridges near Blackfriars station [Thameslink 2005]                  87

Figure 36
Measured noise levels in Blackfriars area                                                88

Figure 37
Predicted noise increase by 2026 at nearby facades as a result of daytime railway
operation                                                                                89



                                                        10
                                                                       Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
____________________________________________________________________________________________


EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

According to Member State reports compiled by the European Environment Agency (EEA) in
2010, railway noise affects about 12 million EU inhabitants at day time, with a noise
exposure above 55 dB(A), and about 9 million at night time, with a noise exposure above
50 dB(A). In fact, the real figures are undoubtedly higher since the EEA’s European noise
mapping initiative concentrates on agglomerations with over 250,000 inhabitants and on
main railway lines with over 60,000 trains per year. The railway noise problem is
concentrated in central Europe, where the majority of the affected citizens live and the
volume of rail freight transport is highest (primarily Germany, Italy and Switzerland, but
traffic density is high also in Poland, Austria, the Netherlands and France, and noise
mapping indicates that significant population is affected in Belgium and Luxembourg).

Noise is an annoying phenomenon, contaminating the environment and adversely affecting
the health of people exposed to high ambient noise levels above 70 dB(A) – or even less.
The discussion about railway noise has become very important in several European
countries as railway transport increases and plays a more important role in greening
transportation. For implementing the sustainability goals formulated in the EC 2011
Transport White Paper and the Greening of Transport package, the environmental impact
(carbon, energy, noise, etc.) of railway operations needs to be minimised to maintain rail’s
position as a green transport mode – and thereby promote a modal shift to rail, to reduce
the environmental impact of transport overall.

In order to analyse the noise situation in Europe, following current EC legislation, the
Member States have to provide noise maps and noise action plans. Noise action plans
describe the measures taken to lower environmental noise for identified affected
inhabitants. However, legal conditions differ widely across Europe as Member States have
different limits or threshold limits for environmental noise emissions, and usually these
limits are tested only when building new infrastructure or during major redevelopment.

In general, three different sources of railway noise are identified:

      Engine noise
      Rolling noise
      Aerodynamic noise.

Railway noise is largely a problem of freight trains and trains containing older wagons or
engines, and is a particularly severe problem during the night. Rolling noise is generally
higher from poorly maintained rail vehicles, and from trains running on poorly maintained
infrastructure. Aerodynamic noise is particularly relevant for high speed lines where, in
most cases, noise limiting measures like noise barriers are implemented; noise barriers
reduce the impact of rolling noise, but are usually too low to have any effect on noise
originating at the pantograph. Engine noise is most relevant at lower speeds up to about 30
km/h, rolling noise above 30 km/h and aerodynamic noise dominates above 200 km/h. The
most important noise source is rolling noise, which affects all kinds of train.

To reduce railway noise pollution, passive measures at the place of disturbance can be
distinguished from active measures at the noise source. The most important passive
methods used to reduce the impact of railway noise on the environment are noise
protection walls and insulating windows, and for the most part action plans and




                                              11
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

investments of the Member States concentrate on these methods. However, they are only
locally effective, requiring huge investments to protect wider parts of railway networks.

In contrast, source-driven measures lower noise across the whole railway system if they
are widely introduced. As an example, the problem of noisy rail freight cars can be reduced
by the replacement of cast iron brake blocks by composite brake blocks. This is currently
being investigated by the railway industry and would affect about 370,000 old freight
wagons. Also, wheel absorbers, aerodynamic design of pantographs and noise insulation of
traction equipment (e.g., locomotive engines) are measures to reduce noise at source.
According to the current Technical Standard for Interoperability (TSI Noise), rolling stock
which was introduced since the year 2000 (including engines and passenger coaches or
passenger power cars) are required to lower noise emissions by about 10 dB(A) compared
to the equipment of the 1960s and 1970s.

In the authors’ opinion, noise should ideally be reduced at the source because these
measures have a network-wide effect. Where track infrastructure causes increased noise
levels (e.g., structure-radiated noise from viaducts or curve squeal in narrow radius
curves), or where the local environment is particularly sensitive to noise (e.g., areas of
natural beauty or urban environments with residences very close to the railway line) then
additional trackside noise mitigation measures may be necessary. Such measures include
friction modifiers, rail dampers, floating (or isolated) slab tracks and of course noise bunds
and barriers in various heights. Vehicles and track should all be maintained to eliminate
unnecessary sources of noise, e.g., corrugation.

Retrofitting of existing rail freight cars with composite K- or (if approved) LL-brake blocks is
the most cost-effective measure on the vehicle side. Additional measures on the vehicle
side are wheel absorbers, vehicle-mounted friction modifiers (most effective in urban or
sub-urban networks) and (for high-speed trains) aerodynamically optimised pantographs
(e.g., shielding or coating). These measures are effective network-wide. Additional research
could be made for modified wheel constructions as they are very effective but experiences
with accidents lead to reluctance to use new wheel constructions replacing mono block
types.

On the infrastructure side, friction modifiers, rail dampers and slab track are cost-effective
measures for reducing noise. In densely populated environments and highly trafficked
railway sections, the use of noise barriers or coverings cannot be avoided. However, if
there is a wide introduction of vehicle-related measures, the number of noise barriers or
covers can shrink significantly.

Additionally, wheels and rails need frequent monitoring and maintenance to reduce noise.
The surface quality of wheels and rails is a key factor determining rolling noise and
deteriorates naturally over time; severely damaged surfaces (out of round wheels or
corrugated tracks) are a major noise source.

The European Parliament and European Commission try to encourage the Member States to
take more action to reduce railway noise, e.g., by introducing noise-dependent track
pricing schemes. Such economic incentives (rail track charging differentiated according to
noise emissions) can help to:

       stimulate the use of low-noise technology for the rolling stock;
       foster the use of routes which avoid hot spots for noise;
       foster noise-reducing operational routines and speeds in sensitive areas.



                                                        12
                                                                               Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
    ____________________________________________________________________________________________

On the regulative side, the Japanese top-runner scheme 1 is an example to come to a long
term reduction of noise. The TSI Noise is an appropriate basis for noise regulation in the
medium and long term. Presently, the standards for noise emissions are valid for new or
modified vehicles only. In the medium and long-term view the TSI can become compulsory
for all vehicles. The noise levels in TSI Noise should also be lowered from time to time
according to technical development similar to the Japanese example.

In principle, there are three approaches to a noise-dependent track pricing, and each can
be configured as a mix of bonus and penalty components:

      1. The train-related noise emissions can be measured at critical points in densely
         populated areas and/or low distances to residential zones and then allocated to the
         trains causing the noise. The noise mark-up for the track charge then would vary
         with the local noise level and eventually with the noise exposure of the residential
         population.

      2. The wagons can be classified into noise categories and charged with a noise mark-
         up or granted with a bonus according to the noise category. The train operator
         would pay the charge to, or get the bonus from, the infrastructure manager, and
         pass the bill or grant the bonus to the car owner or operator.

      3. Trains can be classified on the basis of the rail car types from which they are
         composed. In the case of freight trains, the emission category of a train could vary
         with every change of the train composition in marshalling yards.

The first approach would directly correspond to the polluter-pays principle, but causes high
transaction costs for implementation and control. The second approach is the most simple
and easy to implement, but neglects the nature of rail noise; a high percentage of noise-
reduced cars is required in order to achieve a substantial reduction of train-related
emissions. The third approach does not require a sophisticated payment system but needs
a functioning (eventually international) information system for wagon control.

The charging schemes can be embedded into appropriate legislative regulations to set a
clear framework for long-term activities to reduce railway noise. The following instruments
for regulation are possible:

         Limits for stationary and pass-by noise for freight wagons and locomotives;

         Operation and maintenance rules;

         Noise-limiting technology for new rolling stock according to the Japanese top-runner
          scheme. This scheme aims at reducing energy consumption and climate impact by
          dynamic setting of emission targets on the basis of current best practice (“top
          runners’ performance”);

         Retrofitting programmes for vehicles currently in service (phased obligation
          schedule).




1
     This scheme aims at reducing energy consumption and climate impact by dynamic setting of emission targets
     on the basis of current best practice (“top runners’ performance”).



                                                      13
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

Noise depending track access charges (NDTAC) should be introduced to encourage the
vehicle owners to invest in noise reduction measures. At the first stage they should focus
on rail freight wagons but the scheme can include other vehicles or measures later or focus
on noise limits without regard to measure to reach the limit.

Importantly, NDTAC should be realised so that no burdens for competitiveness for the rail
sector appear. Investment and higher operational costs should be covered. NDTAC should
be harmonised in the Member States and each vehicle operating in a national network
should be included (also foreign vehicles). To meet the fact that significant noise reductions
are only to be achieved if trains are completely equipped with low noise equipment, the
NDTAC should favour trains which are nearly fully equiped with these vehicles. To avoid
losses in competitiveness lower TAC for low noise vehicles a substantial part should be
financed by the Member States. To motivate an early switch to low noise vehicles or
retrofitting of existing freight cars also direct funding of investments should be considered
for a few years.

Summary of recommendations

As rail freight wagons commonly travel across wider international distances, it is essential
to harmonise noise legislation policies across Europe. As a result the authors recommend
focusing on the following actions:

       Retrofitting the existing freight wagon fleet with low noise braking systems
        especially by replacing the cast iron by composite brake blocks as the most
        important and effective first step of source related noise reduction measures.

       Establishing funding schemes to cover the retrofitting and additional operating costs
        of the new noise reduction technologies to avoid a reduction of the rail sector’s
        competitiveness; a substantial part of costs should be covered by the Member
        States, since quieter trains will reduce the need for, and therefore the cost of,
        infrastructure noise mitigation measures.

       Introducing rail track charging systems which differentiate the train charges
        according to the noise category of a train. The noise classification of a train should
        be determined by the wagon with the highest noise emission level.

       Making activities concerning NDTAC or noise limit regulation depending on the same
        actions in road transport to avoid losses of competitiveness for the rail sector.

       Making noise limits by TSI Noise ([TSI Noise 2011] also compulsory for existing
        rolling stock 10 or 12 years after introduction of funding schemes and noise limits
        for new rolling stock.

       Adjusting limits of TSI Noise in a phased process for a medium and long-run future
        to foster the development of new noise reduction technologies.

       Monitoring and maintenance of noise development due to abrasion to assure low
        noise levels also during operation over long periods.




                                                        14
                                                                  Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
____________________________________________________________________________________________



1.          DEFINITIONS AND EFFECTS OF NOISE

                                       KEY FINDINGS

        Noise is sound which is unwelcome but the annoyingness depends on the
         individual.

        Noise can be harmful.

        The noise pressure level is measured in dB(A) (deci Bel) with a logarithmic scale.

        10 dB(A) increase of noise represents a ten-fold increase of noise pressure.

        A change of 3 dB(A) is detectable by the human ear, with it representing a
         doubling of noise pressure.

        Local resistance against railway noise increases especially in Central Europe
         where most rail freight transport is realised.

        The majority of rail transport is realised in France, Germany and Poland.



1.1.        Noise and railway noise

Noise is sound that is unwelcome, because of its volume or structure, and can be harmful.
Since not everyone responds equally to sounds and the perception is dependent on
constitution and mood, noise also contains a subjective component. Therefore, there is no
fixed value at which a sound is perceived as noise.

Rail noise is sound emissions arising from the operation of trains and trams. There are a
wide variety of sources and causes of rail noise, such as locomotives accelerating, freight
wagons braking, squeal noise in curves, vibration from rail corrugation and out-of-round
wheels, vehicle coupling in shunting yards, and even the pantographs of high-speed trains.



1.2.        Measurement of noise

Sound is vibrations in the air around us causing our eardrum to vibrate. The human ear is
sensitive to frequencies in the range 20 Hz – 20 kHz. These vibrations in the air cause
pressure changes, and the change in pressure is called sound pressure. Sound, and
therefore noise, is measured by measuring the sound pressure. How loud we perceive the
sound depends on sound pressure level and duration, but also on frequency and bandwidth.
Psychology also affects our perception and tolerance of sound. Besides sound pressure
level, the duration of the sound, the time of day, the composition and frequency of the
sound must be considered in the assessment of noise. Also, the tonality ("squeak") and
impulsiveness ("hammer") play a role.

The measurement of sound pressure level, usually referred to as volume, has the physical
unit Bel. Normally the term decibel (dB) (i.e., one tenth of a Bel) is used. The additive (A)




                                             15
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

behind the unit dB expresses that the noise measurement is A-weighted (a filter defined by
IEC 61672:2003 norm), i.e., tuned to the perception of the human ear.

While the human ear can perceive an increase in sound volume as sound energy increases,
the relationship is logarithmic. If two identical 10 dB noise sources are placed together, the
perceived increase is not a doubling of the volume but rather a 3 dB increase. If ten such
noise sources were placed together, the increase would be 10 dB – multiplying the sound
energy (and thus the real exposure) by a factor of ten, multiplies the perceived sound
volume by a factor of two.

As such, a sound level increase from 45 dB to 55 dB may not look like much on paper, but
it represents a ten-fold increase in sound energy and its impact on human health. Humans
are usually able to sense a change of 3 dB in sound level, which corresponds to a factor-of-
two change in sound energy, but that is about the limit of sensitivity. Measures to reduce
noise levels by less than 3 dB would, by themselves, be of no real value.

Sound can also be transmitted as vibration through the ground and directly into the body,
and this is also a form of noise pollution.

Three standard measures of average sound pressure level, defined by ISO 1996-2:1987,
are Lday, Levening and Lnight, where day is typically 07.00 – 19.00, evening is 19.00 – 23.00,
and night is 23.00 – 07.00; these are long-term average A-weighted measurements of all
days, evenings and nights, respectively, over the course of a year. Lden is a weighted
average of these three, adding 5 dB(A) to Levening and 10 dB(A) to Lnight; this is defined in
Annex 1 of European Commission Directive 2002/49/EC. The UK uses also LAeq,16h which is
an average of Lday and Levening.



1.3.         Effects of noise

The faintest audible sound is at 0 dB(A); the pain threshold is about 120 dB(A). If it is
louder than 120 dB(A), there is a risk of injury. At a detonated blast of 150 dB(A) the
eardrum can rupture.

Noise exposure during sleep such as night flight noise is regarded as particularly critical. So
night noise causes health hazards already at individual levels below 45 dB(A), if the
difference between the individual level and the background noise is more than 3 dB.

Noise above 55 dB(A) is considered as noise pollution. If noise above this level lasts for an
extended period of time, the efficiency and well-being of a person will be reduced. Noise in
the range 65 to 75 dB(A) causes stress to the body. This can lead to arterial hypertension
(high blood pressure), cardiovascular disease and myocardial infarction (heart attack).
Noise can also provide for a reduction of gastric secretion and be the cause of stomach
ulcers [WHO JRC 2011].

In the workplace, above 85 dB(A), a contractor is responsible to ensure his employees have
suitable hearing protection available. If the noise level is over 90 dB(A), employees must
wear hearing protection.




                                                        16
                                                                            Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
    ____________________________________________________________________________________________

1.4.              Results of noise mapping

According to Directive 2002/49/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25
June 2002 relating to the assessment and management of environmental noise, all Member
States have to provide noise maps and noise action plans (for details see section 2.2 on
page 29).

The report on the implementation of Directive 2002/49/EC [EC 2011] summarises the
number of affected people by environmental noise in the first round of strategic noise
mapping (see Table 1).

Table 1:          Affected people by environmental noise according to first round of noise
                  mapping

                                     NUMBER OF AFFECTED                NUMBER OF AFFECTED
                                     PEOPLE BY NOISE LEVELS            PEOPLE BY NOISE LEVELS
      SECTION
                                     ABOVE 55 DB(A) LDEN               ABOVE 50 DB(A) LNIGHT
                                     [MILLION]                         [MILLION]

      Agglomerations > 250,000 inhabitants

      All roads                                    55.8                              40.1

      All railways                                 6.3                               4.5

      Industrial zones                             3.3                               1.8

      Important infrastructures outside agglomerations

      Main roads                                    34                               25.4

      Main railways                                5.4                               4.5

      Main airports                                 1                                0.3
                                                                              Source: EC 2011, Table 2.

The European Environment Agency (EEA) and the European Topic Centre on Land Use and
Spatial Information (ETC LUSI) publishes noise maps on the internet according to Directive
2002/49/EG. The maps are available at [NOISE 2011]. The maps present the population in
each country affected by rail noise (distinguishing agglomerations from main lines outside
agglomerations). Also, affected population by industry, main road traffic and aviation can
be identified. A spreadsheet 2 shows detailed and aggregated figures according to data sent
until 30 June 2010. In Annex I of this study (pages 120 - 121) the results of noise mapping
for the rail sector are shown for all countries inside and outside agglomerations.

According to EEA data, the following states in Europe are mostly affected by railway noise
according to the share of their population that is affected by railway noise with more than
55 dB(A) LDEN: Austria (9.3%), Slovakia (9.0%), Switzerland (7.5%), France (5.5%),
Germany (4.3%), Czech Republic (3.8%), the Netherlands (3.8%) and Latvia (3.0%) (see
Figure 1).

The following Figure 1 shows the share of affected people in each European country
according to the figures delivered by the states to fulfil the requirements of Directive
2002/49/EC.

2
     Summary of noise exposure data – file name is “END_DF4_Results_101005_ETCLUSI_inclBG&SW.xls”



                                                    17
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

Figure 1:      Share of people affected by railway noise in each European country
               according to EEA data




                                               Source: Figure elaborated by the authors with EEA data.




                                                        18
                                                                  Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
____________________________________________________________________________________________

Analysing the figures in Annex I, it can be seen that about 85% of people affected by
railway noise (over 55 dB(A) LDEN or 50 dB(A) LNIGHT) are located in the following six
countries in Europe: Germany, France, UK, Austria, Poland and Switzerland. About 60% are
located in Germany and France.

If only areas outside agglomerations are considered the figures change significantly. In this
case the six countries mentioned above represent 89% of affected people. The share of
people affected in agglomerations and outside agglomerations differ very much between
the countries. In Germany about 75% of affected people live outside agglomerations
whereas in Poland this share is 0 (Switzerland: 15%, Austria: 59%, the UK: 17%, France:
44%).

Although the number of people affected by rail noise is about eight times smaller than that
affected by road transport noise, the total number remains high. In total 11.8 million
inhabitants are affected by railway noise during the day (LDEN) and 9 million are affected at
night time (LNIGHT). The limit in noise mapping remains much higher than the
recommendations from WHO (see Table 2 page 24).



1.5.       Environmental groups and affected inhabitants

On 7 May 2011, about 1,000 protesters came together in Rüdesheim to protest against the
rail noise in their hometowns along the middle Rhine Valley. They carried banners
demanding a speed limit of 50 km/h in settlement areas and a ban on night trains, word-
playing with the “Deutsche Bahn” as “TaliBahn” and blocking the railway line for 40
minutes. The protests were organised not only by a number of local initiatives, but also by
communities and district administrations.

The main discussion is currently about freight trains as they are identified as the main
source of noise, and they mostly operate at night.

A recent survey [Schreckenberg et al. 2011] showed that 45% of the inhabitants along the
middle Rhine region are highly annoyed by rail noise, compared to only 13% by road noise.
The reason is easy to understand: The topography forces the trains to pass through a
narrow valley between Koblenz and Bingen. Four tracks, two on either side of the Rhine,
cause unbearable noise disturbances in the ears of the inhabitants. Noise maps published
recently show noise levels (LDEN) above 65 and 70 dB(A). These extremes are caused by
400 trains per day, oncoming trains, old infrastructure, and noise reflections on the steep
valley and on the water. Additionally, the EU plans for a European freight corridor from
Rotterdam to Basel will double the number of freight trains of presently 150 per day to 300
per day. Further protests are expected. Further details concerning the Rhine axis will be
elaborated in Section 4.2.1, page 85.




                                             19
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

Figure 2: Protests in Rüdesheim May 2011, noise map Loreley LDEN




This is not the only protest at the Rhine against rail noise. The plans to increase capacities
on the upper Rhine valley caused massive protests from Offenburg to Basel, where
presently around 10 local action groups are active. In Offenburg, 45,840 objections were
made against the infrastructure plans of Deutsche Bahn, and finally the planning was not
approved by the regional administration. As a result, DB started negotiations about a rail
tunnel under Offenburg and an alignment with the motorway. In other towns, groups
protest against the visual impact of “ugly noise protection barriers” and demand a covered
deep-level track near settlements.

The local action groups are supported by a number of environmental NGOs that operate on
a national or international level. The wide range of demands concerning rail noise may be
summarised as follows:

       Freight trains should bypass settlement areas or be guided through deep-level
        tracks, tunnels or fully enclosed tracks.
       Equal priorities for noise reduction on existing tracks and new construction projects
        are required.
       Regarding the legal framework, the equivalent continuous sound pressure level
        should be complemented by a maximum level measurement combined with
        frequencies (in other words, peak sound levels and noise frequencies should be
        considered, not just averaged sound levels).
       Set noise emissions ceilings on railway tracks, in relation to land use and population
        density. Reduction of the permitted night time noise level to 45 dB(A).
       Introduce protection against vibrations into relevant laws and regulations.
       Set a speed limit of 50 km/h for trains in settlement areas.
       Revise the noise standards for new railway rolling stock (TSI Noise).
       Establish a binding framework for the use of market-based instruments to ensure
        the polluters pay for their noise costs, including road charges and a framework for
        rail track access charges which will create an incentive for fast and prioritised
        retrofitting of rail wagons with quiet brake blocks.




                                                        20
                                                                 Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
____________________________________________________________________________________________

Figure 3: Upper Rhine Valley: Plans for Weil am Rhein and protests in Offenburg




Analyses of transportation data from EUROSTAT show that in 2009 almost 27% of the total
rail transportation volume in Europe affected Germany. This underlines the importance of
central Europe as a transit region as well as an industrial region and presents the reason
why the discussion, or even the battle, concerning noise is the strongest in Germany.
Poland in the second place has a share of rail freight volume of 12% and France in the third
place has 9%. Concerning passenger transport, Germany has a 20% share and France
21%.

Analyses of the noise mapping results show that the problem is most severe in France,
Belgium, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Austria and Switzerland.

These two aspects are the reason why data, comments, available studies and national
policy activities concentrate mostly on central Europe and, there, especially on the German
speaking countries and the Netherlands. Regarding the main rail transportation axes in
Europe, Germany, Austria and Switzerland are affected by a large volume of transit
transportation. This will even rise according to transportation volume forecasts.

The future development of rail freight transport will potentially extend noise problems to
other countries through which the TEN-T Corridors pass and which will see rising rail
transportation volumes. However, the measures to reduce railway noise which are
proposed in this study can help to prevent problems in corridors where transportation will
rise in future.




                                            21
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________




                                                        22
                                                                   Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
____________________________________________________________________________________________



2.           LEGAL FRAMEWORK

                                        KEY FINDINGS

        WHO recommends environmental noise limits between 32 and 42 dB(A) at
         night to avoid risks for health.

        About 1 million years of healthy life are lost every year in the EU due to noise
         reasons.

        National noise limits or thresholds differ very much between the Member States
         and exceed the WHO recommendations.

        Noise limits are mostly only binding for new build infrastructure.

        Directive 2002/49/EC requests the Member States to provide noise maps and
         noise action plans. This has been fulfilled for the first round of noise mapping
         which covers main railways, roads, airports and agglomerations. The second round
         (realised until 30 June 2012) will include smaller railways, roads, airports and
         agglomerations.

        12 million inhabitants are affected by railway noise above 55 dB(A) at day time
         and 9 million inhabitants are affected by railway noise above 50 dB(A) at night
         time (major infrastructure and agglomerations).

        The Recast of the first railway package will request the Member States to
         introduce noise depending track access charges to compensate investments
         for noise reduction measures for railway operating companies.

        The TSI Noise sets noise limits for new rolling stock.



The reader can find an overview about all identified and analysed regulation schemes in
Annex IV.



2.1.         General recommendations,                 limits      and    thresholds           for
             environmental noise
In this section some recommendations and thresholds for environmental noise will be
introduced.

2.1.1.       WHO recommendations on environmental noise

WHO published in 2011 a study about the burdens of disease from environmental noise
[WHO JRC 2011]. The study used a quantitative risk assessment approach for the
estimation. One result of the study is that, about 1 million years of healthy life are lost in
the EU every year due to noise reasons.




                                               23
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

Already in 2009 the WHO working group for preparing guidelines for exposure to noise
during sleep published recommendations for thresholds of environmental noise levels [WHO
2009]. The recommendations are shown in Table 2.

Table 2:      Thresholds for environmental noise at night time to avoid health risks
              according to WHO recommendation

                                                                                               THRESHOLD
    EFFECT                                                              INDICATOR
                                                                                                 [DB(A)]

                                                                          see footnote
                  Change in cardiovascular activity                                            see footnote 3
                                                                               33

Biological        EEG awakening                                            LAmax,inside               35
effects
                  Motility, onset of motility                              LAmax,inside               32

                  Changes in duration of various, in sleep
                                                                           LAmax,inside               35
                  structure and fragmentation of sleep

                  Waking up in the night and/or too early in the
                                                                           LAmax,inside               42
                  morning

                  Prolongation of the sleep inception period,
                                                                         see footnote 3        see footnote 3
                  difficulty getting to sleep
Sleep quality
                  Sleep fragmentation, reduced
                                                                         see footnote 3        see footnote 3
                  sleeping time

                  Increased average motility
                                                                           LAmax,inside               42
                  when sleeping

                  Self-reported sleep disturbance                          LAmax,inside               42
Well-being
                  Use of sleeping pills, etc.                              LAmax,inside               40

Medical
                  Environmental insomnia 4                                 LAmax,inside               42
conditions
                                                                                 Source: WHO 2009, page XII.


According to the recent UIC study [CE Delft et al. 2011], the social costs of transportation
noise are estimated at about 35 billion Euro across the EU plus Switzerland and Norway in
2008, of which about 90% are related to passenger cars and trucks. The costs of rail noise
amounts to 953 million Euro or 6% of total noise costs and distributes rather evenly to
passenger and freight traffic.

2.1.2.        Limits or recommendations for maximum noise limits in the Member
              States

The European Environment Agency published a comparison of LDEN limits of 14 Member
States 5 in November 2010 [EEA 11/2010].


3
    Although the effect has been shown to occur or a plausible biological pathway could be constructed, indicators
    or threshold levels could not be determined.
4
    Note that “environmental insomnia” is the result of diagnosis by a medical professional whilst “self-reported
    sleep disturbance” is essentially the same, but reported in the context of a social survey. Number of questions
    and exact wording may differ.
5
    The EEA report does not specify which 14 Member States provided the information.



                                                        24
                                                                     Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
____________________________________________________________________________________________

Figure 4: LDEN planning values for residential area (as reported by 14 Member
          States)




                                                 Source: EEA 11/2010, page 22.


A standardisation might be useful in order to avoid health risks at the same level in every
Member State and to balance competitiveness of all industrial sectors (including transport)
as all Member States have to meet the same conditions.

The figures required as well as recommended by Member States are often much higher
than the recommendations of the WHO. Some national limits or recommendations for
environmental noise are introduced as examples below.

Table 3 shows recommendations for values of threshold for action plans for environmental
noise reduction according to the German Federal Environment Agency (Umweltbundesamt)
(2006). These figures are not obligations so that the residents cannot claim any specific
mitigation measures from these recommendations, if they are affected by environmental
noise above these limits. Introduction of measures is a voluntary measure by public bodies.

Table 3:    German Federal Environment Agency recommendations of thresholds
            for action planning


    TARGET OF ACTION               PERIOD                   LDEN                   LNIGHT

  Avoiding health risks       Short-term                  65 dB(A)                55 dB(A)

  Lowering of large
                              Middle-term                 60 dB(A)                50 dB(A)
  disturbances

  Avoiding of large
                              Long-term                   55 dB(A)                45 dB(A)
  disturbances
                                                                   Source: 16. BIMSchV 2006.


On the other hand, the levels introduced by German Federal Emission Regulation
(Bundesimmissionsschutzverordnung) are required for new built or modified transportation
infrastructures; environmental noise levels have to fall below the values mentioned in [16.
BImSchV 2006].




                                            25
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

Table 4:     German maximum environmental noise levels for new built or modified
             transportation infrastructures

                                                                         LDEN                   LNIGHT

            Near hospitals, schools, sanatoriums                       57 dB(A)                47 dB(A)

          Pure residential areas and small colonies                    59 dB(A)                49 dB(A)

          In central areas, villages or mixed areas                    64 dB(A)                54 dB(A)

                      In industrial areas                              69 dB(A)                59 dB(A)
                                                                                 Source: 16. BIMSchV 2006.


In comparison to the German legislation the following table presents the Austrian limits or
thresholds for noise reduction action planning.

Table 5:     Austrian values of thresholds for action planning

                  TARGET OF ACTION                           LDEN                   LNIGHT

               Road traffic                                  60 dB                  50 dB

               Air traffic                                   65 dB                  55 dB

               Rail traffic                                  70 dB                  60 dB

               Industrial areas                              55 dB                  50 dB
                                                                      Source: Bundes-LärmV 2006.


Finally, the British Standard 8233:1999 “Sound insulation and noise reduction for buildings
– Code of practice” [BS 8233:1999] states noise limits in the UK for indoor noise caused by
environmental noise.

Table 6:     UK values of thresholds for indoor noise caused by environmental noise

                                                                            DESIGN RANGE
                                          TYPICAL
           CRITERION
                                         SITUATION                   Good noise              Reasonable
                                                                       level                 noise level

                                      Heavy engineering               70 dB(A)                 80 dB(A)

   Reasonable industrial              Light engineering               65 dB(A)                 75 dB(A)
   working conditions
                                      Garages,
                                                                      65 dB(A)                 75 dB(A)
                                      warehouses

                                      Department store                50 dB(A)                 55 dB(A)

                                      Cafeteria, canteen,
   Reasonable speech or                                               50 dB(A)                 55 dB(A)
                                      kitchen
   telephone communications
                                      Wash-room, toilet               45 dB(A)                 55 dB(A)

                                      Corridor                        45 dB(A)                 55 dB(A)

                                      Library, cellular
                                                                      40 dB(A)                 50 dB(A)
   Reasonable conditions for          office, museum




                                                        26
                                                                         Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
____________________________________________________________________________________________


    study and work requiring      Staff room                  35 dB(A)               45 dB(A)
    concentration
                                  Meeting room,
                                                              35 dB(A)               40 dB(A)
                                  executive office

                                  Classroom                   35 dB(A)               40 dB(A)

                                  Church, lecture
                                                              30 dB(A)               35 dB(A)
    Reasonable listening          theatre, cinema
    conditions
                                  Concert hall,
                                                              25 dB(A)               30 dB(A)
                                  theatre

                                  Recording studio            20 dB(A)               25 dB(A)

    Reasonable resting/sleeping   Living rooms                30 dB(A)               40 dB(A)
    conditions
                                  Bedrooms                    30 dB(A)               35 dB(A)
                                                                     Source: BS 8233:1999, page 19.


British standards give acceptable noise levels for properties, and requirements for noise
insulation. However, there are no relevant formal limit values in force in England with
regard to environmental noise from railways. The Noise Insulation Regulations, defined in
British Standard; Sound insulation and noise reduction for buildings [BS 8233:1999], define
a threshold level as part of the eligibility criteria. Furthermore, there are guideline levels to
be found in Planning Policy Guidance that provides guidance on land use with respect to
noise from railways.

Environmental impact is considered as part of the planning permission process for
construction, etc., in the UK. Planning Policy Guidance 24 [PPG 24 2006]: “Planning and
Noise” provides guidance to local authorities in England on how to minimise noise impact
(The Scottish Office issues Planning Advice Note 56 “Planning and Noise” with similar
categorisation of noise levels.). [PPG 24 2006] defines exposure categories for residential
development. These categories define action depending on noise level categories.

Table 7:     Noise exposure categories for dwellings

CATEGORY                                             DESCRIPTION

                Noise need not be considered as a determining factor in granting planning permission,
A               although the noise level at the high end of the category should not be regarded as a
                desirable level.

                Noise should be taken into account when determining planning applications and,
B               where appropriate, conditions imposed to ensure an adequate level of protection
                against noise.

                Planning permission should not normally be granted. Where it is considered that
                permission should be given, for example because there are no alternative quieter sites
C
                available, conditions should be imposed to ensure a commensurate level of protection
                against noise.

D               Planning permission should normally be refused.
                                                                          Source: PPG 24 2006, Annex 1.
Noise levels corresponding to the categories are shown in Table 8.




                                                  27
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

Table 8:      Noise levels corresponding to exposure categories for dwellings

                                                        NOISE EXPOSURE CATEGORIES
                     NOISE SOURCE
                                                    A            B            C              D

             Road traffic

              07.00 – 23.00                        <55        55 – 63       63 – 72         >72

              23.00 – 7.00                         <45        45 - 57       57 - 66         >66

             Rail traffic

              07.00 – 23.00                        <55        55 – 66       66 – 74         >74

              23.00 – 7.00                         <45        45 - 59       59 - 66         >66

             Air traffic 6

              07.00 – 23.00                        <55        55 – 66       66 – 72         >72

              23.00 – 7.00                         <48        48 - 57       57 - 66         >66

             Mixed sources

              07.00 – 23.00                        <55        55 – 63       63 – 72         >72

              23.00 – 7.00                         <45        45 - 57       57 - 66         >66
                                                                     Source: PPG 24 2006, Annex 1.


Sweden has decided long-term goals for noise limits in 1997. Indoor levels should not
exceed 30 dB(A) (LDEN) and 45 dB(A) LNIGHT. Outdoor levels should not exceed 55 dB(A) LDEN
and 70 dB(A) as a maximum on a patio [Blidberg 2011].

According to Royal Decree 1367/2007 in Spain, noise action plans are to be made
according to the following table [Sierra 2011].

Table 9:      Spanish values of thresholds for action planning


           TIME FOR            Situation           LDAY          LEVENING         LNIGHT          LMAX
            ACTION

       Up to 2020                Existing           65               65               55           -

       Now                         New              60               60               50          85
                                                                                      Source: Sierra 2011.


Bedrooms in houses located in the 60/60/50 noise contour have to meet 40 dB(A) LDAY, 40
dB(A) LEVENING and 30dB(A) LNIGHT.

Thresholds for noise action planning differ between countries. The differences are even in
classifying noise protection areas. In Germany, action plans which lead to a maximum level
of noise in defined areas are only required for new built and modified infrastructures.

6
    Aircraft noise: daytime values accord with the contour values adopted by the Department for Transport which
    relate to levels measured 1.2m above open ground. For the same amount of noise energy, contour values can
    be up to 2 dB(A) higher than those of other sources because of ground reflection effects.



                                                        28
                                                                             Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
    ____________________________________________________________________________________________

Austria requires noise action planning for certain environmental noise levels, depending on
the source of noise. UK recommendations do not require any action, except in the
workplace or for new built and modified infrastructures, and levels depend on use of the
rooms; local authorities have a number of legislative powers to control noise emission.
Mostly the obliged figures are based on the highest level of the German Federal
Environment Agency recommendations.

These examples of legislation rules or national recommendations differ from the WHO
recommendation and are often only relevant for new or modified infrastructure.

The result of this comparison shows that reducing environmental noise is a very important
action for the environment/health of the population. Many people are affected by rail noise
that exceeds the lowest level the WHO Recommendation according to [WHO 2009]
demands.

2.2.          Environmental Noise Directive 2002/49/EC

The Environmental Noise Directive [Dir. 2002/49/EC] has the following aim 7 :

         “Monitoring the environmental problem; by requiring competent authorities in
          Member States to draw up "strategic noise maps" for major roads, railways, airports
          and agglomerations, using harmonised noise indicators LDEN (day-evening-night
          equivalent level) and LNIGHT (night equivalent level). These maps will be used to
          assess the number of people annoyed and sleep-disturbed respectively throughout
          Europe”

         “Informing and consulting the public about noise exposure, its effects, and the
          measures considered to address noise, in line with the principles of the UNECE
          Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation in Decision-making and
          Access to Justice in Environmental Matters, known as the Aarhus Convention, and
          signed on June 25, 1998.

         “Addressing local noise issues by requiring competent authorities to draw up action
          plans to reduce noise where necessary and maintain environmental noise quality
          where it is good. The Directive does not set any limit value, nor does it prescribe the
          measures to be used in the action plans, which remain at the discretion of the
          competent authorities.”

         “Developing a long-term EU strategy, which includes objectives to reduce the
          number of people affected by noise in the longer term, and provides a framework
          for developing existing Community policy on noise reduction from source. With this
          respect, the Commission has made a declaration concerning the provisions laid
          down in article 1.2 with regard to the preparation of legislation relating to sources of
          noise.”

According to the Directive 2002/49/EG, all Member States have to provide noise maps and
action plans for noise reduction.

The Report from the Commission to the European Parliament and the Council on the
implementation of the Directive on environmental noise in accordance with Article 11 of

7
     Expressions coming from http://ec.europa.eu/environment/noise/directive.htm, last visited 14 September
     2011.



                                                    29
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

Directive 2002/49/EC from 1 June 2011 [EC 2011] shows the current status of
implementation of the Directive in the Member States.

2.2.1.        Status of implementation of Directive 2002/49/EG

The Directive is implemented in all Member States since October 2007 according to [EC
2011]. The 14 8 Member States which did not transpose by 18 July 2004 achieved that by
October 2007. According to the EEA Study “Laying the foundations for greener transport”
[EEA 7/2011] the data provided is 96% complete in mid 2011. In fact [EEA 7/2011]
confirms many aspects concerning limits and the potential risks and limits to avoid risks as
the WHO did in its two studies [WHO 2009] and [WHO JRC 2011]. The road map of the
Directive is represented in [EC 2011] as follows.

Table 10:           Road map for implementation of Directive 2002/49/EG

                                                                         REFERENCE
IMPLEMENTATION
                              ISSUE                                      DIRECTIVE              UPDATES
DEADLINE
                                                                         2002/49/EC

                              Information on major roads, major
                              railways, major airports and
                                                                                                  Mandatory
                              agglomerations according to the
30 June 2005                                                                   Art. 7-1            every 5
                              upper thresholds, designated by MS
                                                                                                    years
                              and concerned by 1st round of
                              mapping

                              Establishment of competent bodies
                                                                                                  Possible at
18 July 2005                  for strategic noise maps, action plans           Art. 4-2
                                                                                                   any time
                              and data collection

                              Noise limit values in force or planned                              Possible at
18 July 2005                                                                   Art. 5-4
                              and associated information                                           any time

                              Strategic noise maps for major roads,
30 June 2007                  railways, airports and agglomerations            Art. 7-1
                              according to the upper thresholds 9

                                                                                                  Mandatory
                              Action plans for major roads,
18 July 2008                                                                   Art. 8-1            every 5
                              railways, airports and agglomerations
                                                                                                    years

                              Information on major roads, major
                              railways, major airports and
                              agglomerations according to the                                     Possible at
31 December 2008                                                               Art. 7-2
                              lower thresholds, designated by MS                                   any time
                              and concerned by 2nd round of
                              mapping

                              Strategic noise maps for major roads,                               Mandatory
30 June 2012                  railways, airports and agglomerations            Art. 7-2            every 5
                              according to the lower thresholds 10                                  years
                                                                                      Source: EC 2011, page 4.




8
     AT, BE, CZ, DE, EL, FI, FR, IE, IT, LU, PT, SE, SL, UK.
9
     Upper thresholds are agglomerations > 250.000 inhabitants, roads > 6 millions of vehicles per year and
     railways > 60.000 trains per year.
10
     Lower thresholds are all agglomerations > 100.000 inhabitants, roads > 3 millions of vehicles per year and
     railways > 30.000 trains per year.



                                                        30
                                                                    Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
____________________________________________________________________________________________

Additional to the information shown in Table 10 according to [EC 2011] the Directive
2002/49/EC [Dir. 2002/49/EC] defines one more step.

In the first round of noise mapping and action plans only big agglomerations and intensive
frequented transportation infrastructure is concerned. The second round also concerns
smaller agglomerations and transportation infrastructures.

Table 11:       Additional steps in noise mapping according to [Dir. 2002/49/EC]


      IMPLEMENTATION
                     ISSUE                                   REFERENCE UPDATES
      DEADLINE

                              Action plans for all roads,
                              railways, airports and                       Mandatory
      18 July 2013                                            Art. 8-2
                              agglomerations where limits                  every 5 years
                              are exceeded
                                                                    Source: Dir. 2002/49/EC.



Concerning noise mapping the following table shows details for the first and second rounds
of noise mapping.

Table 12:      Schedule for noise mapping and noise reduction planning


                           AGGLOMERATIONS >
                                                              AGGLOMERATIONS AND
                           250.000 INHABITANTS AND
ACTION                                                        MAIN RAIL LINES > 30.000
                           MAIN RAIL LINES > 60.000
                                                              TRAINS / YEAR
                           TRAINS / YEAR

Announcement of railway
lines and agglomerations   June, 30th 2005                    December, 31st 2008
which belong to            (must be updated every 5 years)    (must be updated every 5 years)
categories mentioned

Elaboration of noise                                          June 30th 2012
                           June, 30th 2007
maps                                                          (must be updated every 5 years)

Action plans for noise                                        July, 18th 2013
                           July, 18th 2008
reduction                                                     (must be updated every 5 years)
                                                                           Source: Dir. 2002/49/EC.


Table 13 shows the details of the current status of implementation.




                                               31
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

Table 13: Status of implementation of Directive 2002/49/EG


                                                         FULL                      PART
  CASE              DESCRIPTION
                                                         IMPLEMENTATION            IMPLEMENTATION

                                                         Limits by 19 Member
                                                         States (AT, BG, BE,
                                                         CZ, DK, EE, ES, FR,
                                                         DE, EL, IT, LV, LT, LU,
                    Member States shall indicate
                                                         NL, PL, PT, SL, SI);
                    their national legal
  Indication of
                    environmental noise limits or
  noise indices                                          currently reviewed in 3
                    recommendations. A European
  and limits                                             Member States (LT,
                    wide noise level was not
                                                         LV, RO);
                    introduced.

                                                         recommendations by 4
                                                         Member States (FI, IE,
                                                         SE, UK)

                                                                                   11 Member States
                                                                                   reported completely
                                                                                   with a few omissions
                    The Member States have to                                      (AT, BE, CY, DK, FI,
                    provide noise maps for main                                    DE, NL, RO, ES, SE,
                    transport infrastructure and                                   SK)
                                                         12 Member States (BG,
  Strategic         agglomerations. They must be
                                                         CZ, EE, HU, IE, LT, LV,
  noise maps        updated frequently (5 years)                                   3 Member States
                                                         LU, PL, PT, SI, UK)
                    and the update shall indicate                                  reported only for part
                    the situation in the year                                      of the sources of noise
                    before the update.                                             (FR, EL, IT)

                                                                                   1 Member State did
                                                                                   not report (MT)
                                                                                      Source: EC 2011


The range of limits and recommendations for environmental noise differ very much
between the Member States. Only four of them considered health care orientated limits
(EE, LU, PT, SL and the administration of Brussels in BE).

2.2.2.       Noise action plans

Several studies by UIC (see [UIC 2010]) and CER together with UIC (see [CER UIC 2007])
and additional surveys by the authors lead to an overview of the existing noise abatement
actions in the Member States and also in other European countries. All data available are
presented in Table 14.




                                                        32
                                                                        Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
 ____________________________________________________________________________________________

Table 14: Actions by European Countries for noise abatement on railways where
          data are available


COUNTRY                          ACTIONS                                        SOURCE

Austria         Very important topic in particular in urban and
                 mountainous areas
                Noise maps since 1993; environmental noise
                 plans implementing DIR 2002/49/EC
                 (www.laerminfo.at)
                250,000 people exposed to excessive rail
                 noise
                Complex national and state legislation
                1.7 million sq. m [m2] noise barriers
                 constructed along 803 track-km, 2/3 of the
                 planned construction works are completed
                Most of the highly affected inhabitants are
                                                                   Interviews with country
                 protected against noise, annually some 10-
                                                                   representatives in September
                 15,000 new protected citizens
                                                                   2011
                Financial means amount to €16 – 25 million
                 p.a.; 50% of the costs are covered by ÖBB
                 and 50% by the federal states and the
                 community; equipment of new tracks 100%
                 funding by ÖBB
                Equipment of 4,500 out of 31,000 wagons
                 from Rail Cargo Austria and Rail Cargo
                 Hungary with K-block brakes through new
                 units. Retrofitting and noise related access
                 charges are not foreseen
                Participation at UIC-Project EuropeTrain for
                 testing LL-block brakes

                Until 2009 450 km of noise barriers for € 355
                                                                   [UIC 2010]
                 million

                Critique to noise action plans: lag of new ways
                                                                   [Justice and Environment 2009a]
                 to deal with noise, no concrete specification

Belgium         Regional noise legislation, no national
                 legislation existent
                Flanders, Brussels: noise limits
                                                                   [CER UIC 2007]
                Wallonia: no limits
                No programme by SNCB; however protection
                 for new or upgraded lines

Bulgaria
                                                                   Interview with Bulgarian railway
                Only interest in composite brake blocks for
                                                                   operator (BDZEAD) in September
                 noise reduction
                                                                   2011


Cyprus

                Since 1951 there is no railway line in Cyprus
                                                                   http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
                 in effect. So rail noise is no problem for
                                                                   Cyprus_Government_Railway
                 Cyprus




                                                33
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________


 COUNTRY                              ACTIONS                                        SOURCE

Czech              Noise abatement compulsory for new railway
Republic            lines
                   Upgrading of existing lines with noise barriers
                   Action plans for END (Directive 2002/49/EC)         [CER UIC 2007]
                    will form framework of noise abatement
                    programmes
                   Pilot project with LL brake blocks

                   Until 2010 about 115 km of noise barriers           [UIC 2010]

                   Critique to noise action plans: merely
                    containing only measures which have been
                                                                        [Justice and Environment 2009a]
                    planned anyway; no estimate of costs and
                    deadlines

Denmark            Few noise barriers in Denmark: 58 km
                   Passive noise abatement strategy, mostly            [CER UIC 2007]
                    done at houses

                   Research and Testing programmes for
                    optimisation of track construction, acoustic
                    rail grinding, noise partnership with the
                    inhabitants and noise communication                 [UIC 2010]
                    management
                   Until 2009 46 km noise barriers, windows in
                    8,300 houses, total costs 65 million €

                   Up to 2013 22,100 dwellings will be protected
                    by noise screens and/or offered grant to
                    improved sound insulation
                   Offer of grant to improved sound insulation of
                    17,700 dwellings, of which 4.650 dwellings
                    (~26%) have got improved sound insulation.
                   Intensified grinding of rails on all main railway
                    sections (2009 –2014) Target: Less
                                                                        [Blumensaadt 2011]
                    fluctuation in rail smoothness and reduced
                    noise
                   Tests of rail dampers on a short section -
                    effect 2,7 dB(2007)
                   Project Optimized Railway Superstructure
                    (2009 –2014): Survey on influence of
                    different rail pads on noise and vibration at
                    Holmstrup (2010-2011)

Estonia            TSI Noise is transformed into national law.
                   Noise action plans for the City of Tallinn (May
                    2009) and for major road links (Dec. 2008)
                    have been established. These are not legally
                    binding and are not referring to rail transport.
                                                                        [Justice and Environment 2009a]
                    Road measures including noise barriers only.
                   Provisions by the Tallinn noise action plan to
                                                                        [Justice and Environment 2009b]
                    be taken until 2013:
                    o Technical measures at noise sources
                    o Selection of quieter sources
                    o Reduction of sound transmission (e.g.
                        tramway speed reduction)



                                                        34
                                                                        Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
 ____________________________________________________________________________________________


COUNTRY                          ACTIONS                                        SOURCE

                Estonian legislation has delayed the deadline
                 for preparing noise maps beyond 30.6.2007
                 and action plans. This constitutes a conflict
                 with EC legal provisions

France          Noise protection for new or upgraded lines
                implement noise control at hot spots
                 – mostly noise barriers and noise protection
                                                                   [CER UIC 2007]
                 windows
                 – track absorbers homologated
                research projects

                Combined optimisation of rail and wheel
                 dampers. Homologation of wheel dampers
                 (STARDAMP project)                                [UIC 2010]
                Noise plan with € 193 million for noise
                 barriers and rail dampers

Finland         Noise abatement package being considered by
                 parliament, no retrofitting                       [CER UIC 2007]
                 Problem of noisy Russian freight wagons

                Some noise barriers                               [UIC 2010]

                For the 7 agglomerations, Finnish Transport
                 Agency (FTA) has contracted with the city
                 authorities to include the main roads and
                 railways in their assessments, paying a part of
                 their costs
                                                                   [Pokolainen 2011]
                The total cost for FTA will be about € 800,000,
                 about € 1.50 per probable noise zone
                 inhabitant (cost with roads!)
                Experiences with low height barrier come to a
                 reduction of about 10 dB(A)

Germany         Strong political pressure from citizen’s groups
                 and associations
                Long-term goal of German railway DB: cut rail
                 noise emissions 2000 -2020 by half, i.e., a
                 noise reduction of 10 dB(A). Costs: € 2.3 m,
                 with € 100 m p.a. duration of programme
                 expected at 25 years
                Noise differentiated track access charges will
                 be introduced in December 2012. Wagon
                 holders will receive a bonus financed by 50%
                 through government. The bonus will be paid
                 through a fund that is financed equally by
                                                                   Interviews with representatives
                 increased track charges and the Noise
                 Protection    Programme      of    the  German    from DB and national authorities
                 government                                        in September 2011
                180,000 wagons are eligible to be retrofitted
                 with new brakes. Costs amount to € 300 m.
                 Number of wagons presently retrofitted: 6,350
                Programme ”Quiet Rhine“ started that will
                 retrofit 1,150 wagons with new brakes
                Voluntary noise remediation programme for
                 existing tracks of the federal railways
                Research project ”silent train on real track”




                                                35
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________


 COUNTRY                              ACTIONS                                      SOURCE

                    testing innovative vehicle-side technologies
                   Research programme “silent track” testing
                    track dampers and low noise barriers with
                    funding from the Economic Stimulus Package
                    II
                   Acoustic rail grinding programme on-going

                   Testing innovative infrastructure measures:
                    Rail dampers, friction modifiers, low height
                    barriers, absorbers for steel bridges, under
                    sleeper pads
                   Work on realistic rail/wheel contact:
                    improvement of wheel/rail contact, wheel
                    vibrations and acoustic optimisation of
                    pavement
                   € 100 million per year, total costs of 2.3
                    billion until 2030 including noise barriers and   [UIC 2010]
                    windows
                   Most activities are related to infrastructure
                    side measures
                   Retrofitting up to 5,000 freight wagons with
                    K- and LL-blocks up from the year 2009
                   Definition of a practical approach for the use
                    of LL-blocks
                   Definition and pre-evaluation of noise
                    differentiated track access charging models

                   In fact, Germany currently invests significant
                                                                      Additional information by the
                    money in noise protection walls in the
                                                                      authors
                    Konjunkturpaket 2 11

Hungary            The national law obligates noise protection on
                                                                      [CER UIC 2007]
                    new or modernised railways

                   Action plans are not binding and have no
                    implication for national budget rules
                                                                      [Justice and Environment 2009a]
                   Good public involvement in action plan design
                    by establishment of noise committees

Greece             The density of railway lines in Greece is very
                    small. 60% of all railway kilometres belong to
                    one single connection between Thessaloniki        http://www.griechenland-
                    and Athens (1565 km). A very small                travel.com/eisenbahn.htm
                    percentage of all Greece inhabitants is
                    affected by railway noise

Ireland         In the Dublin area traffic is the major noise
                source, but railways do not have a major impact
                on overall noise levels. Major measures:              [Dublin City 2008]
                Promoting walking, cycling, public transport and
                quieter motor vehicles

                Outside agglomerations 23 km of track are above
                                                                      [King et al. 2009]
                60,000 passages p.a., but without affecting


11
     « Konjunkturpaket 2 » (Economic Stimulus Package II) is an extra investment programme of the German
     government following the recent economic crisis 2008/2009 to support the building industry.



                                                        36
                                                                           Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
 ____________________________________________________________________________________________


 COUNTRY                           ACTIONS                                        SOURCE

              population with LDEN>55 dB(A)

Italy            Strict noise legislation including existing lines
                 action plans
                 implementation until 2020
                                                                      [CER UIC 2007]
                 measures to be considered on about 8000 km
                 costs about € 6.8 billion
                 legislation does not allow retrofitting

                 Measurements of all assets (rolling stock) for
                  noise emissions – example: modification of
                  software of the ETR 500 High Speed trains to
                                                                      Answer from Trenitalia (FS) on
                  lower ventilation and cooling noise
                                                                      authors survey in September
                 Most measures indeed concentrate on noise
                                                                      2011
                  barriers and insolating windows
                 Development of cast iron brake blocks for
                  freight wagons

                 For the next 15 years on about 3,675 km of
                  existing lines noise barriers and building          Answer from RFI on authors
                  insulation is foreseen with a budget of about       survey in September 2011
                  8.31 billion € (9,025 single actions)

Latvia           Strategic Noise Mapping was completed in
                  2008 including only major road sections. It
                                                                      [EIONET 2011]
                  can thus be concluded that rail noise does not
                  play a significant role in Latvia

Lithuania        Detailed information on noise action plans
                  have not been available; Communications
                  from the Ministry for Transport and
                  Communications only mention noise reduction
                  programmes for road and air transport
                                                                      [SUMIN 2011]
                 But modal shifts to rail by a cooperation
                  between Lithuanian Railways (JSC) and
                  CargoBeamer (Germany) on combined
                  transport is expected to reduce noise pollution
                  from road haulage

Luxembourg    Luxemburg has submitted a draft Noise Action
              Plan to the EC, which is not accessible to the          [EIONET 2011]
              public

Malta            Since 1931 there is no railway line in Malta in     http://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/
                  effect. So rail noise is no problem for Malta       Schienenverkehr_auf_Malta

Netherlands      Noise abatement legislation since 1987
                 Introduction of noise differentiated track
                  access charges in 2008. The bonus is fixed at
                  € 0.04/ wagon-km and is applied to both
                  passenger and freight vehicles with a
                  maximum of € 4,800 over two years. The
                  bonus is granted on a system of self-               [CER UIC 2007]
                  declaration
                 Noise Innovation Programme: Launching of
                  numerous studies and pilot projects to test
                  composite brake blocks
                 Noisy trains will be prohibited starting in 2015



                                                  37
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________


 COUNTRY                              ACTIONS                                        SOURCE

                    Target noise reduction: 10 – 12 dB(A)
                    Also measures for shunting yards are planned

                    € 430 million for noise barriers, windows and
                     rail dampers
                    Lubrication, removing of rail joints, noise
                     barriers and window insulation in shunting
                     yards                                              [UIC 2010]
                    Research projects for friction modifiers against
                     curve squeal, influencing rail roughness
                    Monitoring noise ceilings and capacity
                     management

Norway              Rail grinding planned but not yet
                     implemented, noise from freight terminals,
                     tonal noise from accelerating and decelerating     [UIC 2010]
                     trains                                             [CER UIC 2007]
                    Passive noise abatement strategy, mostly
                     done at houses

Romania 12          National noise action plans in preparation
                                                                        [CER UIC 2007]
                     since 2008

Poland              Environmental law includes noise abatement
                    track grinding
                    noise barriers (50 km),                            [CER UIC 2007]
                    noise protection windows on new and
                     upgraded lines

Portugal            Noise protection is obligated on all railway
                     lines
                    Nearly all freight cars are equipped with LL-
                     blocks (no need of admittance of these cars in
                     other countries as Portugal has broad gauge        [CER UIC 2007]
                     track and so there is no exchange of wagons
                     with the other European countries)
                    More than 50 km of noise protection walls and
                     in future more are planned

Slovak           Action plans are considered very vague and
Republic         general and not binding and have no implication        [Justice and Environment 2009a]
                 for national budget rules

                 To date only Action Plans for road transport have
                                                                        [EIONET 2011]
                 been submitted to the EC

Slovenia         Action plans are considered very vague and
                 general and not binding and have no implication        [Justice and Environment 2009a]
                 for national budget rules

Spain               Directive 2002/49/EC is completely
                     implemented in national legislation and for        Interview with the RENFE in
                     major railway lines and agglomerations noise       December 2011
                     maps are existing, second phase of noise


12
     According to an Interview with the Romanian Railway Authority there are no problems with noise in this
     country.



                                                        38
                                                                          Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
____________________________________________________________________________________________


COUNTRY                            ACTIONS                                        SOURCE

                  mapping will be fulfilled in 2013
                 Currently 62% of rail freight transport is done
                  with low noise wagons (equipped with
                  composite brake blocks)
                 32% of all freight wagons are already
                  equipped with composite brake blocks
                  (30,58% K- and 1,37% LL-blocks, as well as
                  Portugal Spain has broad gauge)
                 Equipment of freight wagons with K- or LL-
                  blocks goes on (600 expected for 2012)
                 95% of passenger rolling stock is already
                  equipped with disc brakes and new rolling
                  stock will only have disc brakes

Sweden           According to Sweden´s noise mapping:
                  problems also outside of mapping areas; noise
                  mitigation measures such as rail grinding, rail
                  dampers and low height barriers are being          [CER UIC 2007]
                  studied
                 Passive noise abatement strategy, mostly
                  done at houses

                 Noise abatement programme including
                  insulated windows and local barriers for good
                                                                     [UIC 2010]
                  acoustic indoor environment and noise
                  protected patio area

                 Sweden also favors retrofitting braking
                  systems of existing rail cars but serious
                  problems are still not solved concerning the       [Blidberg 2011]
                  braking performance in severe winter
                  conditions

Switzerland      Noise legislation enacted 1987
                 Noise differentiated track access charges
                  introduced in 2010 using a bonus system for
                  low-noise wagons
                 railway noise abatement largely financed
                  through road traffic                               [CER UIC 2007]
                 specific legislation for railway noise:
                 – retrofitting of all Swiss rolling stock until
                  2014 (direct subsidies)
                  – noise barriers with cost-benefit restriction
                  – noise protection windows

                 The total national freight wagon fleet will be
                  equipped with composite breaks which lower
                  rolling noise (for details see Section 3.3). The
                  programme is financed by the government
                  which shifts earning from road pricing to the
                  rail sector. Also a noise-dependent track price    [UIC 2010]
                  system has already been introduced and is
                  currently in discussion for enhancements
                 A cost benefit analysis should show which
                  additional measures will be taken: rail
                  grinding, stand by noise, rail dampers and




                                                  39
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________


 COUNTRY                              ACTIONS                                      SOURCE

                    steel bridges are among the issues studied
                   By 2009 111 km of noise barriers and
                    windows, and by 2015 300 km of noise
                    barriers are planned for € 1 billion
                   Switzerland publishes very detailed
                    information about the status of rail noise
                    abatement and the approach for private
                    persons to gather funding for noise insulating
                    windows for instance (see www.laerm-sbb.ch)

United             Strict planning policy requires new railway
Kingdom             developments to consider noise impact during      [CER UIC 2007]
                    construction and operation

                   British Standards give acceptable noise levels
                    for properties and requirements for noise
                    insulation
                   Most (approximately 75%) of UK freight
                    wagons have disc brakes or composite brake
                    blocks
                   The UK uses a variety of noise mitigating
                    technologies including noise barriers, rail
                    lubricators and friction modifiers, rail          Interviews held by partners in
                    absorbers, and, usually in tunnels, resilient     September 2011
                    baseplates and floating slab track
                   DEFRA (Department for Environment, Food
                    and Rural Affairs) is responsible for the UK's
                    noise mapping and noise action plans
                   The UK has identified a number of Important
                    Areas for the relevant transport authorities to
                    focus on, as well as a subset of First Priority
                    Locations and a timeline for implementation

                   Long-term strategy: Framework for noise
                    abatement incorporating infrastructure
                    provider (NetworkRail) and train operators        [AEA et al. 2004]
                   Concentration on night time noise and
                    integration of transport and land use planning
                                                              Source: Different sources; see column SOURCE.




                                                        40
                                                                  Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
____________________________________________________________________________________________

Reports have been suspended for Greece, Malta and Cyprus due to marginality or non-
existence of rail networks.

Switzerland and Norway are mentioned as non-member countries as they are also
members of UIC as the concerned railway organisation.

UIC (in [UIC 2010]) also mentions an initiative by the group of The Netherlands,
Germany, Switzerland and Italy ([UIC 2010], page 25). In the Rotterdam - Genoa
project, the governments of the states mentioned analysed possibilities to promote
retrofitting of freight cars with low noise equipment (particularly composite brakes). The
study finally recommended harmonised solutions for bonus systems (not only along the
corridors) and to avoid penalty systems.

By the end of 2005, in Europe 1,000 km of noise barriers have been built and
approximately 60,000 buildings have been endowed with noise protection windows. The
measures resulted in noise protection for about 1,250,000 citizens. The measures
comprised annual investments of 150–200 million Euros. The estimated total costs for
infrastructure measures are estimated at up to € 10 billion.

Most national activities and investments so far concentrate on infrastructure: noise
barriers, rail damping and friction modifiers. Many countries and projects also concentrate
or integrate source driven measures like wheel dampers or composite brake blocks.

Interviews conducted with rail industry representatives from DB and ÖBB suggest that
noise bonus regulations shall be unique across Europe to increase the incentives for wagon
owners and operators to retrofit old rolling stock and to minimise market distortions among
rail transportation companies.

2.3.       Recast of the First Railway Package

The First Railway Package consists of Directives 2001/12/EC (amending Council Directive
91/440/EEC on the development of the Community’s railways), 2001/13/EC (amending
Council Directive 95/18/EC on the licensing of railway undertakings) and 2001/14/EC (on
the allocation of railway infrastructure capacity and the levying of charges for the use of
railway infrastructure and safety certification). This was designed to open the international
freight market by setting out the conditions for licensing freight operators in Europe, to
define the roles of the infrastructure managers and railway undertakings, and to set out a
policy for capacity allocation and infrastructure charging.

The Second Railway Package includes the Railway Safety Directive (Directives 2004/49/EC
and 2008/110/EC) and EC Regulations 881/2004 and 1335/2008 which required the
establishment of national safety authorities and investigatory bodies who report to the
European Railway Agency, responsible for rail safety and interoperability as well as drafting
legislation for a harmonised European rail system. The Second Package also includes the
Interoperability Directive (2008/57/EC) which defines how the Technical Standards for
Interoperability (TSIs) should be developed, e.g., TSI Noise relating to “‘rolling stock –
noise’ of the trans-European conventional rail system”, Commission Decision 2011/229/EU
(see Section 2.4, page 42).

The Third Railway Package focuses on opening up international passenger services to
competition within Europe, and includes Directive 2007/58/EC (amending Council Directive
91/440/EEC on the development of the Community’s railways and Directive 2001/14/EC on


                                             41
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

the allocation of railway infrastructure capacity and the levying of charges for the use of
railway infrastructure).

On September 17th 2010, the European Commission delivered a proposal for a Recast of
the First Railway Package [COM(2010) 475]. Article 7 of Dir. 2001/14/EC covers “Principles
of charging”. Noise is not mentioned explicitly in Dir. 2001/14/EC, but the directive allows
infrastructure charges to be modified based on environmental impact. This enables Member
States to introduce noise-dependent track access charges if this is introduced also for
competitive transportation modes or the total turnaround for infrastructure companies does
not rise. Article 31 of the proposed Recast, based on Article 7 of Dir. 2001/14/EC, explicitly
allows differentiation of track access charges based on the noise emission characteristics of
the rolling stock if the same is introduced for road transport.



2.4.         TSI Noise

The basis for all subsystems (infrastructure, energy, control-command and signalling,
operation and traffic management, telematics applications, rolling stock and maintenance)
of the railway system are the “European Railway Technical Specifications for
Interoperability (TSIs)”. The elaboration of TSIs is introduced in Directive 2008/57/EC. The
European Railway Agency (ERA) is responsible for the coordination of development of the
TSIs. For this, ERA organises working groups for the different subsystems which consist of
experts and authorities. The ERA pays attention that all relevant stakeholders are
represented in the working groups.

All TSIs are directly valid for each Member State for new build or modified subsystems. If
exceptions must be made, the Member States have to declare this precisely. General
exceptions are only possible for underground, tram and regional rail systems;
infrastructures / networks which are separate from the rail network and are only used for
local and urban transport; private rail infrastructure and vehicles which are only used on
the private infrastructure which is only used for freight transport for the owner;
infrastructures and vehicles which are only for local use or historical and touristic uses.

The new European Railway Technical Specification for Interoperability (TSI) for Noise (TSI
Noise), document No. 2011/229/EU (published on April, 4th 2011) defines maximum noise
levels for rolling stock [TSI Noise 2011]. This TSI is part of the subsystem rolling stock. It
replaces the version of 2006 [TSI Noise 2006]. Maximum noise levels are defined for
stationary and for pass-by noise on defined rail reference tracks and at defined speed. For
engines, starting noise levels and interior noise within the driver's cab are also defined
where applicable. Interior noise within the driver's cab is not relevant for this study. Details
are presented in Annex II. According to Directive 2008/57/EG these limits are directly valid
for new build vehicles.

Pass-by noise is defined at a distance of 7.5 metres from track centre line and 1.2 metres
above upper surface of the rail. Details about the reference track are to be found in the TSI
Noise. The reference track is defined by its roughness and its dynamic behaviour (described
by the vertical and lateral track decay rates).

In Commission Decision of 30 May 2002 concerning the technical specification for
interoperability relating to the rolling stock subsystem of the trans-European high-speed
rail system referred to in Article 6(1) of Directive 96/48/EC (2002/735/EC) noise limits
were set to rolling stock of high speed trains [Com 2002/735/C].


                                                        42
                                                                    Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
____________________________________________________________________________________________

2.5.         Measuring and computing of railway noise

2.5.1.       Legislation according to Environmental Noise Directive

The EU Directive 2002/49/EC demands in its Annex 1 the following formula to calculate the
relevant day-evening-night level (on the basis of measured noise levels):




in which:

        Lday is the A-weighted long-term average sound level as defined in [ISO 1996-2:
         1987], determined over all the day periods of a year,
        Levening is the A-weighted long-term average sound level as defined in [ISO 1996-2:
         1987], determined over all the evening periods of a year,
        Lnight is the A-weighted long-term average sound level as defined in [ISO 1996-2:
         1987], determined over all the night periods of a year,
        Lden is the average noise level for a period of 24 hours (day, evening and night)

and in which:

        the day is 12 hours, the evening four hours and the night eight hours. The Member
         States may shorten the evening period by one or two hours and lengthen the day
         and/or the night period accordingly, provided that this choice is the same for all the
         sources and that they provide the Commission with information on any systematic
         difference from the default option,
        the start of the day (and consequently the start of the evening and the start of the
         night) shall be chosen by the Member State (that choice shall be the same for noise
         from all sources); the default values are 07.00 to 19.00, 19.00 to 23.00 and 23.00
         to 07.00 local time,
        a year is a relevant year as regards the emission of sound and an average year as
         regards the meteorological circumstances; and in which: the incident sound is
         considered, which means that no account is taken of the sound that is reflected at
         the façade of the dwelling under consideration (as a general rule, this implies a 3 dB
         correction in case of measurement) (see [EC 2002], Annex I).

Noise indicators can also be computed (necessary for predictions). Directive 2009/49/EG
defines in its Annex II computing methods which have to be used if the Member States
have no own legislative computing method which is adapted to Annex I of the directive. For
railway noise the calculation method of the Netherlands is prescribed (”Reken- en
Meetvoorschrift Railverkeerslawaai ’96, Ministerie Volkshuisvesting, Ruimtelijke Ordening
en Milieubeheer, 20th November 1996“) [ReMR 1996].

The calculation scheme defines nine train categories where noise levels for pass by of one
of these trains are indicated. Together with the total number of trains of one type, the
averages LDEN and LNIGHT level can be calculated. Supplement factors are indicated for
different types of bridges.




                                               43
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

Germany for example has its own calculation scheme. They use the “Preliminary calculation
method for the environmental noise at railways” (Vorläufige Berechnungsmethode für den
Umgebungslärm an Schienenwegen) – VBUSch 2006“ [VBUSch 2006] for calculations for
noise mapping.

All calculations schemes are very complex and exceed the scope of this study, but all
schemes classify trains into classes. For each class an emission factor must be calculated
and the addition of all factors is done with a logarithmic function.

There are currently two main discussions about the calculation schemes - the different
results of different schemes and the rail bonus in calculation. Both aspects will be discussed
in the following sections.

2.5.2.        Different results of different computing schemes

The Dutch scheme uses nine train type categories where the indicators mentioned in the
German scheme are already integrated in general calculation factors for the train category.

The calculation in Germany has a common factor for all train types, modified by individual
bonus or penalty factors according to indicators, whereas the Dutch calculation scheme has
already defined global calculation factors for train categories. So calculation results can
differ according to the scheme used; Lercher elaborated an example of these differences in
ALPNAP project [ALPNAP 2007-2]. Figure 5 which comes from the ALPNAP project [ALPNAP
2007-2] shows an example of the result of different calculation methods for people
annoyed by railway noise. The figure compares BASS3 (INTEC) 13 , the MITHRA-SIG 14 and
the Standard set by the Environmental Noise Directive.

Figure 5: Comparison of noise calculation methods in ALPNAP project




                                                 Source: ALPNAP 2007-2, page 124.


Clearly there would be value in a European calculation (and measuring) standard to make
noise effects on the population more comparable.


13
     BASS3 is an implementation of ISO 9613 (acoustics - Attenuation of sound during propagation outdoors) by
     INTEC-University of Gent.
14
     MITHRA-SIG is an implementation of the French standard method NMPB (Méthode de Prevision du Bruit des
     Routes).



                                                        44
                                                                   Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
____________________________________________________________________________________________

2.5.3.      Rail noise bonus discussion

In former, and in some current, calculation or measuring methods (see German Schall 03,
for example) a general bonus for rail noise is included. These incentives transfer measured
or calculated environmental noise emissions into a balanced value. Railway noise is often
seen as less annoying than other noise sources. Amongst others this is accounted due to
more times without noise emissions at all. The general discount is between 3 and 10 dB in
different countries [ZEUS Möhler 2010].

Recently, several studies analysed whether this discount is suitable and eligible. The study
“Lärmbonus bei der Bahn?” (Noise bonus for rail?) [ZEUS Möhler 2010] by Möhler +
Partner München; ZEUS GmbH, Hagen, analysed several studies for the German Federal
Environment Agency (Umweltbundesamt).

The following table shows the suitability of railway noise incentives according to analysed
studies:

Table 15:      Analysis of studies about the eligibility of rail noise incentives

                                                            TYPE OF STUDY
         ELIGIBILITY OF RAIL NOISE
                 DISCOUNT                       Case          Laboratory
                                                                                      Total
                                               studies          studies

 Yes for a general rail noise bonus                2                6                    8

 Different kinds of bonus or penalty               6                0                    6

 No for a general rail noise bonus                 0                5                    5

 Neutral concerning rail noise bonus               1                1                    2

 Total                                             9                12                  21
                                                             Source: Zeus Möhler 2010, page 49.


About 8 out of 21 studies came to the result that a rail noise bonus is eligible. 11 of the 21
studies came to the result that either the incentives have to be variable (for example
depending on time, area influenced, noise level; even a penalty should be included), or the
rail noise bonus is not eligible. 2 of the studies remain neutral. If only case studies are
considered, only 2 of 9 studies agreed that a general rail noise bonus was acceptable,
whereas 6 studies suggested a variable noise bonus/penalty system was necessary. The
authors of that study also identified mistakes in the studies considered. The rail noise
bonus/penalty must be further elaborated, especially considering the current modal split in
transportation and the effects of noise at night (interruption of quiet phases), or different
noise levels, for instance.

ZEUS GmbH and Möhler+Partner published an article about a census concerning the
annoyance by rail and road noise at different times of day (Daytime-related harassment by
road and rail traffic noise – Method and empirical results / Tageszeitsbezogene Belästigung
durch Straßen- und Schienenverkehrslärm - Methode und empirische Ergebnisse) [ZEUS
Möhler 2005]. The authors questioned people about their feeling of harassment from
railway and road noise. The most important result is that during the evening and night the
noise coming from railways harassed more than at during the day. This would justify a rail
noise penalty at evening and night time.



                                             45
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

As a result of the ALPNAP 15 project, Lercher et al. studied the use of sleeping pills by
people affected by rail noise [Lercher et al. 2007]:

         Use of sleeping pills is increasing already at low levels of railway noise from 50
          dB(A) upwards.
         The environment noise level of 60 dB(A) at night which leads to the necessity of
          action plans is considerably too high.

This leads to the general result that a rail noise bonus is not justifiable both at evening and
night time but only eligible during the day and not in the night.




15
     ALPNAP = Monitoring and Minimisation of Traffic-Induced Noise and Air Pollution Along Major Alpine Transport
     Routes, see http://www.alpnap.org (last visit June, 30th 2011).



                                                        46
                                                                  Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
____________________________________________________________________________________________



3.           RAIL NOISE               –     SOURCES          AND        PREVENTION
             MEASURES

                                          KEY FINDINGS

        Main source of railway noise is rolling noise coming from rail freight wagons.

        Of minor importance is engine noise (at lower speeds) and aerodynamic noise
         (high speed trains).

        Locally also squeal noise can be important.

        Rolling stock which is introduced from the year 2000 on is about 10 dB(A) less
         noisy then rolling stock from the 1960s and 1970s.

        Against each source of noise an enormous number of measures has been
         developed in the last years.

        Rolling noise and wheel noise can be reduced by composite brake blocks
         (freight wagons), resilient wheels or wheel dampers.

        Rail noise can be reduced by rail dampers, resilient track pads and combinations
         with noise barriers of different heights.

        Track side or vehicle side lubrication systems can avoid squeal noise and are
         well introduced in tram way systems.

        The most efficient measure to achieve network wide noise reduction is the
         retrofitting of freight cars with composite brake blocks.



This chapter will identify the main sources of railway noise and measures to prevent or to
protect from it.

3.1.         Sources of railway noise

Many studies and publications exist concerning sources of rail noise. The Working Group
Railway Noise of the European Commission published its Position Paper on the European
strategies and priorities for railway noise abatement in 2003 [EC 2003]. The International
Union of Railways (UIC) published its “Environmental Noise Directive Development of Action
Plans for Railways” in April 2008 [UIC 2008].

Both studies (and others, see, e.g., the comprehensive review given by [Thompson and
Gautier 2006]) identify the following sources for railway noise:

        Rolling noise
        Power equipment noise
        Aerodynamic noise.

The severity and relative proportions of these noise sources depend on train speed. At low
speed, power equipment noise is the dominant source, whereas at medium speed the



                                              47
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

dominant source is rolling noise. Only at very high speed does the aerodynamic noise
become an important factor. This effect is illustrated in the following figure.

Figure 6:          Sources of railway noise according to train speed




                                                    Source: UIC 2008, page 7.


This figure shows that between 30 and 200 km/h rolling noise is the dominant source. This
is also the speed range which affects most people living near railway tracks. Low speed is
only to be found in shunting yards, near stations or on factory railways. Speeds of more
than 200 km per hour are only to be found on high speed lines.

The range between 30 and 200 km/h applies to most other railway lines. Mostly these are
older lines built in a time where noise protection was not obligatory. Currently these lines
have the right of continuance. There is mostly no obligation to invest in noise protection
measures but according to Directive 2002/49/EC, many states in Europe already introduce
actions to lower environmental railway noise. The speed range between 30 and 200 km/h is
also the speed where freight trains operate (about 100 km/h). Many sources identify freight
trains as the noisiest trains and they mostly operate outside high-speed lines. The following
table shows the importance of noise sources, depending on train type.

Table 16:          Importance of noise sources

                                                             POWER EQUIPMENT            AERODYNAMIC
          ACTION                ROLLING NOISE
                                                                  NOISE                    NOISE

  Freight trains                         ++                         +                      Not relevant

  High speed trains                      ++                         +                          ++

  Intercity or other long
                                         ++                         +                      Not relevant
  distance trains

  City railways (tram)                   ++                         +                      Not relevant
                                                                                Source: EC 2003, page 18.




                                                        48
                                                                 Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
____________________________________________________________________________________________

The table confirms the importance of rolling noise. [EC 2003] considers that passenger
trains are already quieter as they are equipped with disc brakes. This measure was not
introduced for noise reduction but to enhance performance at speeds above 140 km/h.

The following figure shows the effect of power equipment noise (here a diesel hydraulic
engine, built 1968 to 1979, German type 218), when a train passes. The engine noise has a
large influence at the beginning of the train passage, but after a few seconds the main
influence is the rolling noise.

Figure 7: Development of noise sources while train passing




                                                               Source: UIC 2008, page 13.


Concerning shunting yards: there were no reports identified which elaborate this aspect in
detail. However, noise sources from shunting yards include:

      Engine noise from shunting engines
       especially many acceleration and braking phases must be considered
      Rolling noise from the wagons
       (especially in the train splitting siding zone behind the hump)
      Brake noise
           o Incoming trains
           o Braking of shunting engines
           o Braking of wagons by hump retarders (one of the loudest noise sources)
           o Testing of brakes of ready trains
      Noise from shunting impacts

Most shunting yards are located outside housing areas and their number has dropped over
the years. Single wagon transport has even been abandoned in some countries. On the
other hand, single wagon transport is still important and may play an important role in
modal shift. There was no literature found concerning noise from shunting yards. Other
shunting areas are mostly industrial railways where industrial noise protection rules must
be met. Here railway noise is treated together with other noise aspects and is part of the
total noise measurement or calculation for industrial plants.


                                            49
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

Engine noise is relevant at lower speeds and so mostly near stations. This concerns
especially acceleration noise when engines (especially diesel engines) work at high power
drain (high motor speed, high inverter and converter noise).

Summary:

       The most important source of noise is rolling noise, as this is relevant for
        both freight and passenger trains.
       Aerodynamic noise, especially from pantographs, is very important for
        high-speed trains.

3.2.         Noise emissions in relation to rolling stock

For existing wagons and engines no changes need to be made according to TSI Noise [TSI
2011]. Only in the case of renewal or upgrading of the wagon or engine is there the need
for a new authorisation (to be defined by the national authority); the noise levels must be
met with the new authorisation.

The following examples show the development of noise emissions concerning engines and
wagons in the past. Since the year 2000, many new vehicles have been introduced all over
Europe in freight and in passenger transport. In its brochure “Ruhe bitte” (silent please)
[SBB 2011], Schweizer Bundesbahn (SBB – Swiss Federal Railway) showed how pass-by
noise differs between old and new rolling stock. The following figure shows the changes
between old stock (designed in the 1970s, or earlier) and new rolling stock (designed at the
end of the 1990s). For each of the vehicle types, the noise emission measured according to
TSI Noise is shown.

Figure 8:        Noise emission development of Swiss rolling stock




                                                                   Source: SBB 2011.


The engine Re 460 (also known as Lok 2000) is still one of the quietest engines and was
the quietest vehicle of all trains until the introduction of the IC2000 passenger double deck
coaches. Detailed photographs of the modern Swiss rolling stock show that the bogies are
well covered by the whole engine body (Annex III).




                                                        50
                                                                         Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
____________________________________________________________________________________________

The TSI Noise demands a maximum pass-by level of 85 dB(A) for electric engines and of 80
dB(A) for passenger wagons at 80 km/h. The Swiss examples are already below the noise
level of current European legislation. This is even more interesting as the Lok 2000 was
introduced in 1991 and the IC 2000 passenger cars were introduced in 1997.

[Mather 2006] presented an analysis of sources of noise in comparison with the TSI Noise.
This shows the current performance of rail vehicles in comparison with the demands of the
TSI. The results are shown in the following tables.

Table 17: Maximum and realised noise emissions of existing high speed trains

                             MAXIMUM NOISE                CURRENT
                               EMISSION                 EMISSION OF
         SPEED                                                                   DIFFERENCE
                             ACCORDING TSI              GERMAN HIGH
                                 NOISE                  SPEED TRAINS

  250 km/h                        87 dB(A)               87 – 94 dB(A)             0 – 7 dB(A)

  300 km/h                        91 dB(A)               91 – 95 dB(A)             0 – 4 dB(A)

  320 km/h                        92 dB(A)               92 – 96 dB(A)             0 – 4 dB(A)
                                                                            Source: Mather 2006.


Table 18:       Maximum and realised noise emissions of new freight wagons

                             MAXIMUM NOISE                CURRENT
     AXLES PER
                               EMISSION                 EMISSION OF              DIFFERENCE
   WAGON LENGTH
                             ACCORDING TSI                WAGONS

  0.15 axles per metre
                             82 dB(A) – 84 dB(A)         92 / 94 dB(A)            8 – 12 dB(A)
  (new car / retrofit car)

  0.15 – 0.275 (new car
                             83 dB(A) – 85 dB(A)         91 – 95 dB(A)            6 – 12 dB(A)
  / retrofit car)

  > 0.275 axles per
  metre (new car /             85 – 87 dB(A)             92 – 96 dB(A)            5 – 11 dB(A)
  retrofit car)
                                                                            Source: Mather 2006.


The result is that most actions are still to realise at rail freight wagons and less on
passenger trains and modern engines.

Bukovnik, in a presentation about development and measures in rail noise abatement,
gives a comparison of old and new rolling stock [Bukovnik 2010]. The following figure
shows the effect of new self-propelled vehicles for suburban railways. The vehicle type
4020, built between 1978 and 1987, is - at all speeds - about 8 – 10 dB(A) noisier than the
type 4024 (Bombardier electric Talent) built since 2006. At 80 km/h, type 4024 meets or
goes below TSI recommendations.




                                                   51
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

Figure 9: Noise levels of Austrian self-propelled rail vehicles




                                                                   Source: Bukovnik 2010.


Similar to self-propelled passenger trains, the following figures show pass-by noise
emissions of diesel and electric engines. Red lines show electric and blue lines show diesel
engines.

Figure 10:       Noise levels of Austrian rail engines




                                                                   Source: Bukovnik 2010.




                                                        52
                                                                  Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
____________________________________________________________________________________________

L1042 and L1044 are old electric engines, designed between 1963 and 1995. L1116
(Taurus) is a new electric engine built since 2000. L2123 is an old diesel engine built
between 1964 and 1977; L2016 (Eurorunner) is a new diesel engine built since 2002. A
reduction of about 8-10 dB(A) has been realised. With 80 dB(A) at a speed of 80 km/h the
new engines are much below the TSI recommendation of 85 B(A).

This shows that the introduction of new rolling stock can lower noise in a big range. Halving
of noise was realised since the 1960s and 1970s. Nevertheless there are also negative
examples of new rolling stock that may even be noisier than the old equipment. Many
sources recognise the modern Class 66 engine as well as the Blue Tiger engine as being as
noisy as engines from the 1960s. Both engines were constructed in the 1990s and built
since 1998. The great breakthrough to lower noise of engines came according to this since
the beginning of the 21st century.

Nevertheless the noise emissions of about 80 dB(A) for new and modernised rolling stock
do not lead to a reduction of noise below the WHO levels. Also the levels of the example
countries cannot be met with the new rolling stock. But the reduction at the source can
lower the additional needs for local noise protection as they can be less extensive or
avoided in regions where people live far away from railway lines. There quieter rolling stock
can lower the noise measured at far distance to an applicable level.

Summary:

        Rolling stock introduced since the year 2000 is about 10 dB(A) less noisy in
         comparison with equipment from the 1960s and 1970s.
        So the replacement of old equipment with new ones helps to reduce rail
         noise.



3.3.        Measures to avoid railway noise

Sources of railway noise can be divided into the following aspects:
    Roughness-Induced Rolling Noise
    Wheel Noise
    Rail Noise
    Squeal Noise
    High Speed Trains
    Other Sources of Noise

The mitigation methods studied or already realised in demonstrators or practice will be
introduced with the source of noise.

3.3.1.      Roughness-Induced Rolling Noise

A major, unavoidable source of noise is wheel and rail roughness. Rail corrugation (which
causes intense ground vibration and can increase noise level by 20 dB [CER UIC 2007]) and
wheel flats (regular thuds) are extreme versions of this, but poor rail or wheel surface
condition should be avoided. Regular grinding of rails and turning of wheels helps to
minimise noise. Special ‘acoustic’ grinding can reduce noise levels by about 3 dB
[Thompson 2008-1]; grinding strategies to reduce noise levels were studied in the MONA
project [Thompson and Gautier 2006].



                                             53
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

Both Speno and Schweerbau offer general purpose grinding, which can reduce noise levels
by 10-12 dB, and special acoustic grinding, which can achieve a further 3-4 dB reduction
[Licitra 2006]. UIC’s 2007 report on the state of the art [CER UIC 2007] states that poorly
maintained track increases noise levels, so that track renewal can achieve about 10 dB
noise reduction, and acoustic grinding can achieve a further 1-3 dB.

Cast iron tread brakes, which are very common in European freight vehicles, tend to induce
a corrugation in the wheels which increases noise levels significantly [Thompson and
Gautier 2006]. By contrast, disc brakes, which are prevalent in passenger vehicles, are
typically about 8 dB quieter [Hemsworth 2006]. The difference between tread brakes and
disc brakes is shown in Figure 11. With tread brakes, the brake blocks press against the
wheel directly on the running surface (the tread), i.e., the wheel surface which is in contact
with the rail; whereas with disc brakes an extra disc is placed on the axle and brake blocks
press against this to brake the vehicle. Because tread brakes, particularly with cast iron
blocks, damage the wheel, the running surface becomes rough and can develop out-of-
roundness, increasing the rolling noise.

Figure 11:       Comparison of tread and disc brakes




                                                                          Source: Hemsworth 2006.


Disc brakes are very expensive and can only be introduced with new freight wagons or
expensive retrofitting of existing wagons (the whole bogie needs to be changed). The EU
Project EuroSabot (1996-1999) looked into possibilities for retrofitting vehicles with a low-
noise replacement for cast iron brake blocks [EUROSABOT 2011], [Hemsworth 2006],
[Thompson and Gautier 2006]. This started the quest for composite brake blocks with
friction characteristics similar to cast iron brake blocks, and suitable for retrofit; these are
called ‘LL-blocks’. ‘K-blocks’ are composite brake blocks used in new vehicle designs.

The advantage of LL-blocks is that the braking system of the wagon does not need to be
modified, whereas for K-blocks there is additional effort necessary besides changing the
blocks. This is because LL-blocks have similar friction characteristics to conventional cast-
iron blocks, whereas K-blocks have a higher coefficient (2.5 times higher).

Both types (K- and LL-blocks) reduce noise levels by 8-10 dB; life cycle costs for K-blocks
are similar to life cycle costs for cast iron brake blocks; life cycle costs for LL-blocks are still
to be determined [CER UIC 2007] concerning operation costs. Concerning K-blocks, some
manufacturers or wagon owners recently detected higher costs due to higher wheel wear
[Gilliam 2008] and [Saabel 2011].




                                                        54
                                                                                   Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
 ____________________________________________________________________________________________

The EU Project Euro Rolling Silently (2002-2005) developed three prototype LL-blocks. By
2009, two LL-block types (IB 116* and Jurid 777) were reportedly safe for use in Europe
[Dörsch 2009]. ICER Brakes S.A. sell organic LL-blocks which reduce noise by 8 dB
compared to cast iron brake blocks [Licitra 2006]; organic LL-blocks are also produced by
the Federal-Mogul Corporation.

However, although the new composite LL-blocks are effective at reducing noise, there are
still problems to be solved before they can be implemented across Europe. In tests with LL-
blocks, the wheels’ equivalent conicity increases over time, affecting the dynamic stability
of the vehicles. To address this, a consortium of brake manufacturers and vehicle operators
has established the EuropeTrain project ([EuropeTrain]) which is using a real train
travelling around Europe to speed up testing of LL-blocks.

If the LL-block could be introduced and certified the migration would be relatively easy,
simply replacing the existing cast iron blocks by LL-blocks. Concerning the accreditation of
LL blocks, Mr Lochman from CER expects certification by the end of the year 2011 and the
beginning of introduction mid-2012, whereas Mr Pennekamp, Mr Fleckstein, Mr Mather and
Mr Theis from DB expect certification sometime during 2012. 16 As a result, the authors of
this study expect certification by the end of 2012, which is more practical.

In addition to EuropeTrain, the following two composite brake projects are being conducted
in Europe: Leiser Rhein includes the retrofitting of vehicles, especially in the Rhine Valley,
and LäGiV develops improved K-and LL-blocks.

Summary:

         Roughness of rails and wheels, especially corrugation in rails and out-of-
          round wheels, is a major cause of rail noise and needs to be monitored and
          controlled. Infrastructure managers and train operators already have
          maintenance programmes to control rail and wheel quality, and
          infrastructure managers use axle load checkpoints to monitor passing
          traffic and detect severely damaged wheels. Tolerances may need to be
          tightened to improve quality and reduce noise, requiring additional
          maintenance.

         The use of composite brake blocks rather than cast iron brake blocks will
          significantly improve the wheel running contact surface and reduce noise
          levels. Retrofitting existing wagons with composite brake blocks is
          possible, and the use of LL-blocks in particular (requiring the least effort
          and cost to retrofit) is currently being investigated by UIC’s EuropeTrain
          consortium. There are still questions about the long-term degradation and
          the life cycle costs of the new LL-blocks that are holding up widespread
          implementation.

3.3.2.         Wheel Noise

The EU Project Silent Freight (1996-1999) looked at possibilities of reducing noise emission
from wheels [Dörsch 2009], [Hemsworth 2006], [Thompson and Gautier 2006]:

         ring dampers reduce noise by 6 dB;

16
     These statements are the results of interviews held by the project team in July 2011.



                                                         55
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

       perforation of the wheel is ineffective;
       wheel-tuned absorbers reduce noise by up to 7 dB;
       wheel web shields reduce noise by up to 9 dB.

The following figures illustrate the systems.

Figure 12:       Ring damped and perforated wheel




                                                             Source: Hemsworth 2006.


Figure 13:       Wheel-tuned absorbers




                                                              Source: Hemsworth 2006.


Figure 14:       Wheel web shields




                                                              Source: Hemsworth 2006.



                                                        56
                                                                                    Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
 ____________________________________________________________________________________________

Further noise reduction can be achieved through the use of a bogie shroud [Hemsworth
2006].

Fundamental redesign of the wheel to reduce noise is difficult due to the need to fit with
existing tread braking systems and the need to dissipate the heat generated during
braking. Reducing the wheel diameter makes the wheel more susceptible to wheel-rail
roughness interaction and can increase noise levels. The RONA project (wheel optimisation
for high-speed lines) developed a new wheel design, JR13, which reduced noise levels by
about 3 dB. The RONA project also developed a wheel, Alu4, with a thick aluminium web
and wheel dampers, with a predicted noise reduction of 12 dB. However, following the
Eschede derailment in 1998 17 , caused by a broken tyre, the industry has been wary of
multi-material wheels. Other incidences with broken axles on freight wagons or ICE trains 18
will make innovations of wheels and axles more difficult. The EU Project HIPERWHEEL
(2000-2004) tested a constrained layer damping treatment on the ETR500 high speed train
in Italy and measured a noise reduction of 4-5 dB between 200 and 300 km/h (see
[Thompson and Gautier 2006]).

Lucchini 19 offers a range of special low-noise damped wheels. Syope is a constrained layer
damping treatment; Galene uses tuned absorbers to reduce squeal noise for trams; Hypno
is a friction damping steel design for tread-braked freight wagon wheels. Valdunes 20 also
integrates damping systems into wheels, for example, using damping rings to reduce
squeal noise by 10-15 dB (see [Licitra 2006]).

Heathcote Industrial Plastics offers constrained layer dampers which eliminate squeal noise
and reduce under-vehicle noise by up to 30 dB. GHH offers wheel absorbers (5-15 dB noise
reduction) and damping rings. VSG Vibration Absorbers offers wheel vibration absorbers
(10-30 dB noise level reduction at squeal noise peak frequencies). Schrey & Veit offers
wheel absorbers which almost completely eliminate squeal noise, and reduce the noise level
by 8 dB if squeal does occur (see UIC Curve Squeal Project WP3 [Müller et al. 2003]).

Summary:

         Resilient wheels can reduce noise and improve ride quality, and can be very
          effective at reducing squeal noise in tight curves. A variety of technologies
          are available and in use in high-speed and metro applications.
         Following the Eschede disaster in 1998, there is still a reluctance to use
          non-monoblock wheels in high-speed rail vehicles.


3.3.3.         Rail Noise

Rail dampers – steel masses embedded in an elastomer, fixed to the rail web – were
developed in the 1990s by ERRI in the OFWHAT (Optimized Freight Wheels and Track)

17
     At Eschede the broken separate tyre caused the high-speed ICE train to derail at a switch. The rear bogie of
     one carriage followed the turnout on to a parallel track, and the carriage subsequently hit bridge supports. The
     bridge collapsed onto the train and the following cars crashed into the broken bridge and cars. 101 people died
     and a further 88 sustained injuries. The separate tyre technique was only used with ICE trains to solve a
     primary damping problem with this train type whereas other high speed trains only use full monoblock wheels.
18
     Breaking of an axle of an ICE3-train in Cologne on 9 July 2008; freight train derailment in Viareggio (Italy) 30
     June 2009.
19
     Lucchini RS [http://www.lucchinirs.it/] is an Italian company which produces high-speed wheelsets; this is
     separate from the Russian-owned steel manufacturer Lucchini.
20
     Valdunes [http://www.ghh-valdunes.com/] is a major European wheelset manufacturer based in Germany,
     France and Belgium.



                                                         57
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

project and SNCF in the VONA project (low-noise track designs for high-speed lines)
[Thompson and Gautier 2006]. The EU Project Silent Track (1997-2000) developed these
rail dampers further; the new design reduced noise by 6 dB [EUROSABOT 2011],
[Hemsworth 2006], [Thompson and Gautier 2006]. The Dutch IPG project 21 tested rail
dampers and found the silent track dampers and also the Schrey and Veit (S&V) VICON-
ASMA 5RQ absorber to be effective, reducing noise levels by 3 dB [Thompson 2008-2].
Further testing of rail dampers is presented by van den Dool [van den Dool 2007].

Figure 15:         Tata Steel SilentTrack tuned rail dampers                         many deferent
                                                                                     kinds of rail
                                                                                     dampers




                                        Source: Tata Steel; images from product brochure.


Tata Steel offers the ‘SilentTrack’ tuned rail damper system (see Figure 15), with a noise
reduction of 3-7 dB. The rubber at both sides of the metal rail causes the noise reduction.
Over 200 km of SilentTrack are in operational use around the world, including the
Netherlands, Germany and the UK.

Trackside barriers can also be used to reduce noise levels [Hemsworth 2006], [Thompson
and Gautier 2006], but rail dampers can make barriers and screens unnecessary [van den
Dool 2007].

The VONA project also developed optimised rail pads which reduced noise levels by 3-4 dB
[Thompson and Gautier 2006]. Rail pads were also developed in the Silent Track project,
reducing noise levels by 2 dB.

Saargummi and CDM offer a range of resilient rail pads designed to damp noise and
vibration; CDM and Getzner Werkstoffe offer under-sleeper pads and ballast mats and a
range of solutions for slab track and embedded track systems [Licitra 2006].

Pandrol’s VANGUARD uses resilient padding to attenuate noise, but also supports the rail at
the web to prevent rail roll. This system is used in the London Underground (Victoria Line)
and the Channel Tunnel Rail Link, for example, and recently in the new development of
Belgrade Central where vibration reduction was a key consideration. When tested in Hong
Kong’s MTRCL test track on plain slab track, the VANGUARD system reduced average noise
levels by 7.3dB in the 20Hz-500Hz range; and by 13dB in the 40Hz-80Hz range. These
tests showed even greater noise reduction was possible by using the VANGUARD on an
Isolated Slab Track (IST); IST has a rubber ballast mat and is easier to install than floating
slab track, but is not as effective.



21
     Innovatieprogramma geluid (IPG) voor weg- & spoorverkeer [http://www.innovatieprogrammageluid.nl/].



                                                        58
                                                                    Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
____________________________________________________________________________________________

Figure 16:    Left: Saargummi rail pad; Right: Pandrol Vanguard resilient web
              support




              Source: Licitra 2006                Source: Pandrol Vanguard; product brochure

The Silent Track project developed a new rail section with a narrower fit, along with a new
fastening system and a new twin-block sleeper design; this reduced noise levels by 3 dB.
The Dutch project Quiet Rail Traffic (STV) developed a new, smaller rail section, SA42, for
slab track (see Figure 17); the rail is continuously supported by a stiff embedding material,
and this acts as a damping mechanism. The noise reduction compared to slab track with
UIC 54 rails is 5 dB. Barriers at the side of the track, with a height of 0.7 m, further
reduced noise levels by 6 dB (see [Thompson and Gautier 2006]).

Figure 17:    Slab track section SA42 from Quiet Rail Traffic project




                                                                        used in japn for
                                                                        high speed trains

                                         Source: Thompson and Gautier 2006.


The Edilon Corkelast embedded rail system, which provides a noise reduction of 5 dB, has
been implemented in the rail steel bridge over the Arno in Pisa [Licitra 2006].

Balfour Beatty Embedded Rail System (BBERS) has been shown in a test in Medina, Spain,
to reduce noise level by 2 dB or more, compared to ballasted track [InnoTrack D2.3.3].

Summary:

      Noise and ground-borne vibration are a major concern in urban areas, and
       bridges and underground railways require special measures. Resilient rail
       pads are a common solution, but for locations where a greater level of
       damping is required then floating or isolated slab track is a possibility, or
       under-sleeper pads and ballast mats for ballasted track; an alternative to



                                             59
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

          rail pads is a more advanced resilient rail support system such as
          VANGUARD.
         Resilient rail support solutions interact with each other and also with
          resilient wheel technologies, and the whole system needs to be considered
          and modelled in order to minimise noise and vibration in the required
          frequency range.

         Noise barriers have a large on-going maintenance cost, have a high visual
          impact and create problems for track access. Rail dampers can be tuned to
          the local needs of the railway and left in place for the life of the track; these
          can be an effective alternative to noise barriers.


3.3.4.        Squeal Noise and Friction Modifiers

Squeal noise is the high pitch noise (2-4 kHz) sometimes emitted when vehicles are
curving. This is caused by lateral stick-slip behaviour of the contact between the wheel and
rail exciting high-frequency resonances in the rail and wheel. Many wheel and rail damper
solutions target squeal noise.

Friction modifiers are used to change the interaction of wheel and rail to prevent squeal
noise and corrugation. As of 2005, UIC’s position on friction modifiers was that there is no
optimal solution. Friction modifiers can be lubricants, e.g., greases, designed to reduce
friction to 0.2 or less, and usually applied to the gauge face of the high rail in curves where
the wheel flange often makes contact, creating a grinding sound and high levels of wear.
Lubrication is primarily used to reduce wear, and is not desirable on the top of the railhead
where high levels of friction are required for traction (train acceleration and braking). Top-
of-rail (TOR) friction modifiers (FM) control friction to be in the range 0.3-0.35. To prevent
squeal noise, friction modifiers need to have ‘positive friction’ characteristics, so that
friction increases when the wheel slips. TOR FM can also be effective at reducing short-pitch
corrugation (a major noise source) on the low rail in curves, and has been used
successfully in the Heathrow Express to combat corrugation 22 .

Alternatively, special asymmetric rail sections can be used to prevent squeal (‘Anti-Squeal
Profile’), and the track layout can be adjusted to avoid dynamic conditions of the vehicle
which cause squeal noise. Special surface layers or coatings can be designed with special
friction characteristics, such as Duroc AB’s particle-impregnated rail surface. Based on
laboratory tests, this layer has a low coefficient of friction when dry, and is also effective at
reducing rail wear, and even the corresponding wheel wear is relatively smooth (see
[Hiensch et al. 2007]).

The EU Project Q-City (2005-2009) tested vehicle and track lubricators for squeal noise
suppression. On-board lubrication was tested in the Antwerp network and found to be
effective at reducing squeal noise, and for a relatively low cost. A wayside lubrication
system was tested at the STIB depot; the wayside lubrication was very effective,
decreasing squeal noise by at least 16 dB. In general, electric power is required on site for
wayside lubricators, and access to hydraulics for maintenance may be difficult in urban


22
     M. Chestney, N. Dadkah and D. Eadie (2009) The Effect of Top of Rail Friction Control on a European
     Passenger System: The Heathrow Express Experience, 8th International Conference on Contact Mechanics and
     Wear of Rail/Wheel Systems (CM2009), Firenze, Italy. [For a summary of this, and a general look at TOR FM,
     see also: http://www.therailengineer.com/railtex2011/Day-2-No-06-Kevin-Portec.pdf].



                                                        60
                                                                    Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
____________________________________________________________________________________________

environments (see [Q-City 2009]). These techniques, indeed, are only tested for municipal
railways (light rail, underground systems).

Figure 18:    Principle of way-side lubrication systems for friction modifying




 street car track
 shown here


                                                       Source: Q-City 2009.


The particular through-hole lubricator prototype developed by Lion Oil was found to be
unreliable (see Figure 18). The figure shows the injection device to lubricate the rail-wheel-
contact area. Other similar systems are on the market, and the annexes of [Q-City 2009]
give quotations for: (A) Clicomatic rail through-hole grease lubrication system; (B) FluiLub
rail lubrication systems (vehicle-mounted and track-based).

ELPA d.o.o. offer another through-hole wayside application for suppressing squeal noise,
both in curves and during braking (particularly useful at marshalling yards) [ELPA], [Licitra
2006]. The ELPA system uses an environmentally friendly composite friction modifier.

Other track-based rail lubrication / friction management systems are: Portec trackside
Friction Management System (5-15 dB noise reduction); Schreck-Mieves Electronic Rail
lubrication; and KLS Lubriquip. Other on-board friction management systems: REBS (rail
lubrication, 20-28 dB reduction at 2500 Hz, and wheel-flange lubrication); TracGlide (rail
lubrication); Vogel AG (wheel-flange lubrication); Kelsan/Lubriquip (wheel-side, 2-7 dB
reduction); Barnt Green Birmingham (water spray); SBB (water spray) (see UIC Curve
Squeal Project WP 3 [Müller et al. 2003]).

Summary:

      Gauge-face lubrication is the traditional means for controlling wear of the
       high rail in narrow-radius curves, which has a secondary effect of reducing
       noise levels, including squeal noise in some cases. The main technological
       developments in this area focus on the applicators.

      Top-of-rail friction modifiers are a relatively new extension of this
       technology, and are used to prevent corrugation of low rails and squeal
       noise in curves, as well as brake squeal in shunting yards.




                                             61
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

3.3.5.       High-Speed Trains

Aerodynamic noise becomes significant at high speed (over 200 km/h) reaching a noise
level similar to rolling noise. For electric trains, pantograph noise is also significant at high
speed. Pantographs and the leading bogie are the two main sources of aerodynamic noise.
Pantographs can be shielded (see Figure 19) and/or carefully shaped, and thereby achieve
noise reductions of 5-10 dB in each case (see [Talotte 2000], [Talotte et al. 2003]). [Sueki
et al. 2009] have shown that porous covers can reduce aerodynamic noise of pantographs.

Figure 19:       Shield of pantograph of Japanese Shinkansen Series 700




                                                         Source: Talotte 2000.


Figure 20:       Porous coating of pantographs




                                                                           Source: Sueki et al. 2009.


Vibrations caused by vehicle-track interaction travel through the ground at a speed that
depends on the ground type; propagation is slower in softer soil. If train speed exceeds the
ground vibration propagation speed, then this creates a ground-borne vibration ‘boom’,
analogous to a sonic boom when aircraft break through the sound barrier. In practice this
means there is a threshold train speed above which ground vibration increases sharply. For
peat and clay soils, this critical speed can be as low as 150 km/h, but bogie spacing and
axle spacing also influence the critical speed [Madshus and Kaynia 2000].

Concerning high speed trains on high speed lines, often ballast-less tracks are used. As this
superstructure is a hard soil the noise can increase due to the hard concrete plate, low
absorption of noise and strong transference. The normal solution is to cover the ballast-less
tracks with dampers.

Summary:

        Pantographs are generally higher than noise barriers, and for high-speed
         trains these are a major source of noise. Rather than making noise barriers


                                                        62
                                                                                      Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
 ____________________________________________________________________________________________

          even higher or all-enclosing, an alternative approach is to focus on
          aerodynamic design and new materials.


3.3.6.         Other Sources of Noise

Other sources of noise include locomotive exhaust, traction motors, cooling fans, bridges
and train horns [Talotte et al. 2003]. Resilient baseplates are effective at reducing bridge
noise (the Pandrol VIPA system reduced noise by 6 dB in one study [Wang et al. 2000]).
Schrey & Veit (S&V) also offer a tuned absorber system for railway steel bridges [Licitra
2006] with also approximately 6 dB noise level reduction.

It should be noted, finally, that poor or infrequent maintenance can cause increased noise
levels, particularly from components with moving parts, e.g., bearings, vehicle suspension.

3.3.7.         Other options to reduce noise

Other options, such as speed limits and land-use planning, are rejected in [UIC 2008].
Speed limits need to be substantial (50 km/h) to have a considerable noise impact and thus
“are not compatible with the operation of a commercially competitive railway” (although the
benefits of speed reduction should be considered on a case-by-case basis). Land-use
planning measures are of little effect, since further than 50 metres from the source “noise
level is insensitive to even medium changes in distance”.

The redirection of trains is not always suitable. In some cases there may be alternative
lines, but here also people can be affected. So this solution may only be a shift of the
problem. In some cases, for example the Rhine axis, there are no (realistic) alternatives.

3.4.           Result for main reduction measures

The following table shows a summary of measures, effects and costs, collected from the
different sources.

Table 19:          Measures, effects and costs

                                                        IMPACT
                              AVOIDED
                                                        (LOCAL,                                         COSTS /
      MEASURE                SOURCE OF                                           EFFECT
                                                       NETWORK                                           UNIT 23
                               NOISE
                                                         WIDE)

                                                                            Up to 8 dB(A) –         4,000 – 10,000
K-blocks                  Rolling noise            network wide
                                                                            10 dB(A)                € per wagon 24

                                                                            Up to 8 dB(A) –         500 – 2,000 €
LL-blocks                 Rolling noise            network wide
                                                                            10 dB(A)                per wagon 25

                                                                                                    Shall be
                                                                            10 – 12 dB(A) (up
General grinding                                                                                    established in
                          Rolling noise            local                    to 20 dB(A) at
of bad track                                                                                        normal
                                                                            very bad tracks)
                                                                                                    maintenance


23
     Cost information comes from [UIC 2008] page 25.
24
     Retrofit, for new wagons there are no additional costs; additional operating cost still to be analysed.
25
     Retrofit, for new wagons there are no additional costs; additional operating cost still to be analysed.



                                                           63
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________


                                                    IMPACT
                            AVOIDED
                                                    (LOCAL,                                     COSTS /
    MEASURE                SOURCE OF                                       EFFECT
                                                   NETWORK                                       UNIT 23
                             NOISE
                                                     WIDE)

                                                                      1 – 4 dB(A)
                                                                      (depending on
                                                                      local rail
Special acoustic
                        Rolling noise          local                  roughness
grinding
                                                                      conditions),
                                                                      mostly around 2
                                                                      dB(A) attended

                                                                                             Meanwhile
                                                                                             mostly
Disc brakes             Rolling noise          network wide           10 dB(A)
                                                                                             established in
                                                                                             passenger cars

                                                                                             3,000 – 8,000 €
                                                                                             per wheel 
Wheel-tuned
                        Wheel noise            network wide           2 – 7 dB(A)            (24,000 –
absorbers
                                                                                             64,000 per 4-
                                                                                             axle wagon)

Bogie Shrouds
together with
                        Wheel noise            local                  8 – 10 dB(A)
low height
barriers

                                                                      3 – 7 dB(A)            300 – 400 € per
Rail dampers            Rail Noise             local                  (mostly around 3       metre (two
                                                                      dB(A) attended)        rails)

Slab tracks             Rail noise             local                  5 dB(A)

Rail pads               Rail Noise             local                  3 – 4 dB(A)

Different
                                                                      Up to 20 dB(A)
measures to
                        Squeal noise           local                  depending on
lower squeal
                                                                      local conditions
noise

                                               Global but only at
Shielding of
                        High speed trains      high speed up          5 – 10 dB(A)
pantographs
                                               from 200 km/h

Barriers 2 meter
                        All sources            local                  10 dB(A)               1,000 €/m
high

                                                                                             1,350 €/m (3
Barriers 3 – 4                                                                               metres high)
                        All sources            Local                  15 dB(A)
meter high                                                                                   1,700 €/m (4
                                                                                             metres high)

                                                                                             3,000 – 8,000 €
Insulated
                        All sources            In house only          10 – 30 dB(A)          per house (4
windows
                                                                                             windows)
                                                         Source: Elaborated by the authors from different sources.




                                                        64
                                                                 Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
____________________________________________________________________________________________

Deutsche Bahn has published two graphs in its Statement for Noise Reduction [DB 2010]
Figure 21 shows, on the left, the current noise levels on German railway lines; and, on the
right, the results of a simulation with the assumption that composite brake blocks for rail
freight wagons have been introduced. The graphs show that the network affected by high
noise emissions will shrink by introducing modified tread brake blocks. Fewer lines will be
affected by noise levels between 70 – 75 dB(A) and 65 – 70 dB(A). Nevertheless, there are
many lines which will remain affected by these noise levels.

However, the introduction of low noise wagons with the help of composite blocks lowers the
number and length of rail sections where local (expensive) measures must be taken.

Figure 21:    Shift of noise levels on German railway lines due to introduction of
              composite iron soles for rail freight wagons




                                                                     Source: DB 2010, page 3.


The UIC published in its report “Railway Noise in Europe – A 2010 report on the state of the
art” a diagram where the costs and benefits of different measures and combinations are
presented [UIC 2010]. Figure 22 represents the main result of the STAIRRs Project (funded
by the EU 5th Framework Programme). The graph shows that the most cost effective
measure to lower railway noise is the retrofitting of freight wagons with composite blocks.
It costs about 5–10 billion Euro and lowers noise for about 100 million people. The
combination of composite blocks with rail-tuned absorbers will raise costs up to 20–40
million and affect 100–150 million people. In comparison, noise barriers (without any
changes in vehicle technology) will cost about 80 billion Euro and affect about 180 million
people. As a result, the introduction of composite brakes saves a considerable amount of
money in comparison with noise abatement only realised by noise barriers.



                                            65
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

Figure 22:       Cost benefit analysis of measures to reduce noise in STAIRRS project




                                                                 Source: UIC 2010, page 15.



Concerning the equipping of freight wagons with composite blocks: The noise reduction
effect of a complete train depends in a logarithmic form on the number of wagons equipped
with composite blocks. This effect is illustrated by [Bukovnik 2010].

The red line in Figure 23 is the relevant one. It shows the effect of the total noise emission
(y-axis) of a train in which a certain share of wagons is equipped with low noise brakes (x-
axis). The assumption for Figure 23 is that wagons equipped with composite brakes cause
noise emissions of 78 dB(A), whereas the others cause emissions of 92 dB(A). The figure
shows that noise reduction for a whole train follows the share of noise-reduced wagons and
is disproportionately low until about 75% of the wagons have composite brakes, and after
that the total noise decreases faster.




                                                        66
                                                                     Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
____________________________________________________________________________________________

Figure 23:    Effect on total noise according to share of wagons equipped with K-
              or LL-blocks




                                            Source: Bukovnik 2010.


If 50% of the wagons were equipped with composite blocks the total noise would only be
reduced to a noise level of 89 dB(A) (21% of total possible lowering). Only if about 98% of
wagons were equipped would a total level of 80 dB(A) (86% of possible lowering) be
reached. This means that the lead time until significant noise reduction is achieved will be
very long if the modified wagons are introduced by normal replacing of old wagons by new
ones after the normal operation time of a wagon (about 40 years).

To achieve a significant and noticeable effect, a large share of wagons has to be equipped
with K- or LL-blocks as soon as possible. LL-blocks can be completely introduced according
to the normal operational lives of blocks (which in some cases is less than one year as
normally – operation time for cast iron blocks is about 60,000 km, whereas wagons for
combined transport run about 100,000 km per year). K-blocks can be introduced in about
6–8 years providing the possibility for wagon owners to modify the braking system with the
general inspection.




                                            67
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

Conclusion:

Regarding the costs and the associated effects, and current experience of noise measures,
the authors conclude that:

       Noise should ideally be reduced at the source because these measures have a
        network-wide effect.
       A relatively cheap way to reduce noise on freight routes is to retrofit
        braking systems of rail freight wagons with composite brake blocks as
        quickly as possible.
            o Freight trains are currently identified as the noisiest trains.
            o Most freight trains operate at night which is the most sensitive time of day.
            o Most passenger trains already have disc brakes due to higher speeds and
                enhanced comfort for passengers, so these trains are quieter than freight
                trains.
            o Wheel dampers are very expensive and cause additional efforts for
                maintenance but can significantly reduce noise emission.
       In case of high-speed trains, advanced pantograph designs should be considered,
        especially for routes through noise-sensitive areas where noise bunds and barriers
        shield against rolling noise but may not shield pantograph noise.
       Where track infrastructure causes increased noise levels (e.g., structure-radiated
        noise from viaducts or curve squeal in narrow radius curves), or where the local
        environment is particularly sensitive to noise (e.g., urban environments with
        residences very close to the railway line (especially agglomerations) or areas of
        natural beauty) then additional trackside noise mitigation measures may be
        necessary.
            o Rail-tuned absorbers can be effective against curve squeal and rolling noise,
                reducing noise levels typically by 3-7 dB(A). These can be a low-cost solution
                which avoids visually intrusive noise barriers.
            o Noise bunds and barriers can be effective against noise propagation, but can
                create problems for track access and have high on-going maintenance costs.
            o Curve squeal and corrugation of the low rail can be prevented using top-of-
                rail friction modifiers.
       In the long term, new wheel concepts can be introduced, but these need more
        research and testing before they can be introduced especially into high speed
        vehicles.
       In dense populated areas with high frequencies of trains, noise protection walls or
        insulating windows still need to be introduced. Their number could shrink in case of
        well introduced source related measures or modified tracks.



3.5.         Number of rail freight wagons to be retrofitted

To identify the value of retrofitting freight cars with composite brake blocks, an analysis of
the age structure of the fleet must be done. One question is the number of wagons it is
worth retrofitting. Another is the number of wagons that will be replaced by new ones in
the near future, since these are not worth retrofitting.

Unfortunately the only study available concerning the freight wagon fleet is from the year
2004 [AEA et al. 2004]. The figures from that report will be updated by some recent
reports or news from European railways, wagon owners and wagon manufacturers.



                                                        68
                                                                    Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
____________________________________________________________________________________________

The AEA study mentions on page 38, that Trenitalia has made a detailed survey of the
European fleet in the year 2000. If a retrofitting programme had begun in 2005, the
retrofitting would have affected 650,000 wagons out of 1.2 million.

In general, the AEA study points out that determining the size of the fleet is very difficult
due to the lack of data from some countries. Also, the authors did not get data from each
of the railway companies or countries because the number and age of freight cars is often
confidential for competition reasons. The estimated total number of freight cars in Europe is
given in Figure 24. The age structure of the total fleet of the year 2000 is presented in
Table 20.

Figure 24:    Estimated number of freight cars




                                                              Source: AEA et al. 2004, page 39.




Table 20:     Age structure of freight wagon fleet in the year 2000


               Building year                                    Share

               Before 1970                                                   10%

               Between 1970 and 1980                                         46%

               Between 1980 and 1990                                         22%

               after 1990                                                    10%
                                                   Source: AEA et al. 2004, page 42.


To update the figures given in the AEA-study, the authors have made additional analyses
using other sources.

Recent documents from VDV, UIC and others indicate that in Europe 600,000 rail cars still
exist or are relevant for noise reduction programmes. The UIC indicates a total number of
600,000 old wagons to be retrofitted [UIC 2009]. Also VDV together with VPI, DB Schenker




                                             69
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

and DB Netz indicate 600,000 wagons where retrofitting must be checked [VDV et al.
2010].

For retrofitting activities the railway alliances UIC, CER, UIRR, ERFA, EIM and UIP together
answered a Consultation document of the Commissions Services [UIC et al. 2007]. Their
statements concerning the worth of retrofitting focus on the number of years a retrofitted
wagon will be used. This is about 4–6 years (one revision cycle) but realistically 10 years.
The normal durability of a freight wagon is about 40 years, so the oldest wagons to be
retrofitted may be about 30 years old. According to the figures mentioned in Table 20, only
264,000 of the fleet of the year 2000 are valid for retrofitting (only the categories up from
the year 1980). General figures about the total number of wagons currently operating in
Europe are 600,000 or 650,000. The difference between the wagons up to 30 years and the
highest number of wagons in operation makes 386,000 wagons which either have been
built since the year 2000 or before 1980. Estimating that the normal life time of freight
wagons is 40 years, almost 80% of wagons produced between 1970 and 1980 are still in
use. That makes about 300,000 wagons. So about 86,000 wagons must have been
produced since the year 2000. Together with the fleet worth retrofitting, from between the
years 1980 and 2000, this makes a total of 350,000 wagons.

An interview with Mr Kerth from VDV by the authors came to an estimate of 350,000 to
370,000 wagons to be retrofitted. Also KCW indicates a total number of 370,000 freight
cars to be retrofitted [KCW 2009].

Summary:

       Although the exact number is not known, a reasonable estimate is that
        there are currently 370,000 freight wagons suitable for retrofitting with
        composite brake blocks.




                                                        70
                                                                   Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
____________________________________________________________________________________________



4.           CASE STUDIES

                                        KEY FINDINGS

        This section describes some general noise situations in regions and rail sections and
         effects of realised or proposed measures to lower / avoid noise.

        On the Rhine Axis the situation on the currently realised/planned upgraded line
         between Karlsruhe and Basel and the existing line in the narrow Rhine Valley
         between Bingen and Koblenz is described. A simulation of the introduction of
         noise barriers on the one hand and of composite brake blocks on the other hand is
         made.

        For alpine regions general findings from a research project on noise are
         represented.

        For the Inn Valley in Austria the current situation, development of rail transport
         and the intensive activities of Austria concerning the installation of noise
         protection walls are described.

        For the Fréjus Corridor between France and Italy the noise situation is
         described.

        For the UK activities and noise situations for the new built projects Thameslink
         and the two High Speed Lines are represented.



This chapter is divided into two main sections. Section 4.1 on page 71 describes selected
regions or countries and includes some general local aspects of noise emission and noise
spreading in mountain areas. Section 4.2 on page 83 analyses selected railway lines in
more detail. The effects of sample measures which are described in Section 3.3 on page 53
are calculated.

4.1.         General descriptions of environmental railway noise in
             selected areas or countries

4.1.1.       Rhine Axis

The Rhine Axis beginning at the ARA ports and ending in Basel with the continuance via
Gotthard and Lötschberg to north Italy represents one of the most important freight
corridors.

The main areas where the discussions about railway noise are currently the strongest are
the section between Bingen and Koblenz and the new build “Rheintalbahn” between
Karlsruhe and Basel. The section Bingen – Koblenz is the narrowest section of the Rhine
Axis where railway lines are located on both sides of the Rhine. The rail track follows the
river with many sharp turns. The section Bingen – Koblenz will be described in Section
4.2.1 on page 84. This section focuses on the Rheintalbahn.




                                              71
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

In 1993 the first sections of two extra tracks between Karlsruhe and Basel were introduced
for operation on the “Rheintalbahn”. In the following years more and more sections got into
operation. They are mostly located next to the existing railway line but also some of the
new sections are constructed next to the motorway A5 (example: bypass Freiburg for
freight trains) or use completely new corridors (like the Rastatt tunnel or the Katzenberg
tunnel). The sections between Rastatt and Offenburg are in operation. The sections
Karlsruhe – Rastatt and Offenburg – Basel are still in planning or partly under construction.
There are many objections against the project especially due to noise pollution reasons.

BMU and Intraplan Consult published a prediction about numbers of trains between
Offenburg and Basel. The study firstly comes to the result that about 1,300,000 people are
living in the affected area of the railway 26 line ([BVU INTRAPLAN 2008], page 11).

The following table gives the result of predicted numbers of trains for sample sections
(rural and urban areas).

Table 21: Prediction of numbers of trains on Rheintalbahn


 SECTION (SAMPLES)                         TRAIN TYPE                     2007          2015           2025

                                 Long distance trains                       66            76            78

Denzlingen – Freiburg            Regional trains                           124           152           190
(agglomeration)
                                 Freight trains                            160           286           304

                                 Share of freight trains                  47%            56%           53%

                                 Long distance trains                       66            76            78

Müllheim – Auggen                Regional trains                            50            76            76
(rural area)
                                 Freight trains                            160           280           304

                                 Share of freight trains                  58%            65%           66%
                                                                        Source: BVU INTRAPLAN 2008, page 38.


The predictions for regional trains as well as for long distance trains come from existing
planning for extensions of public transport services.

The figures show that in the corridor the number of freight trains will rise about 100% in all
sections. In the Freiburg agglomeration, the number of regional trains also will rise. The
share of freight and passenger trains differs between agglomeration and rural areas. In
agglomerations the share of freight trains is about 50% whereas in rural areas the share
will rise up to 66%. So the influence on total noise is different.

The share of trains during day and night time for 2015 is shown in the following table.




26
     Cities of Freiburg, Ortenaukreis, Landkreise Breisgau-Hochschwarzwald, Emmendingen and Lörrach.



                                                        72
                                                                           Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
 ____________________________________________________________________________________________

Table 22: Share of numbers of trains on Rheintalbahn between day and night time

                                                                         DAY                NIGHT
SECTION (SAMPLES)                       TRAIN TYPE
                                                                      (6 – 22 H)          (22 – 6 H)

                               Long Distance trains                        60                  16

Denzlingen – Freiburg          Regional trains                            132                  20
(agglomeration)
                               Freight trains                             129                  155

                               Share of freight trains                    40%                 81%

                               Long Distance trains                        60                  16

Müllheim – Auggen              Regional trains                             64                  12
(rural area)
                               Freight trains                             125                  155

                               Share of freight trains                    50%                 85%
                                                                     Source: BVU INTRAPLAN 2008, page 39.


At night the share of freight trains rises from 40 / 50% up to 81 / 85%. Almost 55% of
freight trains are operated at night. As night time is a period with a higher sensitivity to
noise this is important.

The figures show that a concentration on measures to reduce noise at the source - for
freight wagons, as the first step - is an important measure to reduce or avoid extra railway
noise.

The current situation is represented by the noise action plans of the cities of Freiburg and
Offenburg. In its noise action plan the city of Freiburg published the number of inhabitants
affected by railway noise.

Table 23:      Affected inhabitants of railway noise in Freiburg

                        LDEN                                                LNIGHT

Noise level [dB(A)]        Affected inhabitants          Noise level [dB(A)]     Affected inhabitants


                                                         > 45 – 50                       32,820


> 55 – 60                           22,820               > 50 – 55                       19,020


> 60 – 65                           8,950                > 55 – 60                        7,530


> 65 – 70                           4,380                > 60 – 65                        3,820


> 70 – 75                           2,680                > 65 – 70                        2,410


> 75                                2,340                > 70                             1,880


Total                               41,170               Total                           67,480

                                                                             Source: Freiburg 2009, page 5.




                                                    73
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

According to the noise action plan, Deutsche Bahn is currently installing about 9 – 10 km of
noise protection walls and noise protection windows in about 1,500 apartments. The target
of Deutsche Bahn is to meet the emission levels of 70/72/75 dB(A) at day time and
60/62/65 dB(A) at night time (residential zones / mixed zones / industrial zones).

In the noise action plan of the city of Offenburg [Offenburg 2009] the number of
inhabitants affected by railway noise is published as follows.

Table 23:        Affected inhabitants of railway noise in Offenburg

                         LDEN                                                 LNIGHT

                                     Affected                   Noise level              Affected
 Noise level [dB(A)]
                                   inhabitants                   [dB(A)]               inhabitants

> 55 – 60                              7,150             > 50 – 55                          5,890

> 60 – 65                              2,910             > 55 – 60                          2,310

> 65 – 70                               920              > 60 – 65                           770

> 70 – 75                               450              > 65 – 70                           410

> 75                                    450              > 70                                410

Total                                  11,880            Total                              9,790

Total above 70                          900              Total above 60                     1,590
                                                                              Source: Offenburg 2009, page 6.


Actions for environmental railway noise mostly consider the building of a freight train
tunnel for the next section of the new Rheintalbahn and noise action plans in special areas.

Concerning the new built areas and sections of the third and fourth track, mostly noise
protection walls are foreseen. Discussions with the neighbours are often made due to
different opinions of calculation about the associated noise emissions and the resulting
number, length and height of noise protection walls. Especially the difference between the
calculation scheme for noise mapping according to Directive 2002/49/EB [VBUSch 2006]
and for new build infrastructure [Schall 2003] (for details see Section 2.5 on page 43) is
currently in discussion. The rail noise bonus which is still valid for German infrastructure
caused many struggles.

In Offenburg the planning foresees to build the new tracks along a new corridor through
the city. Noise emissions will affect many people. Alternatives like a tunnel solution are
presented by citizens´ initiatives. As this solution is very expensive it is refused by the
building owner. The current plans of the building owner were refused by the planning and
authorisation body (Regierungspräsident Freiburg) as they were not finished and could not
meet legal checks.

In Rastatt a tunnel already was planned but it was adjourned indefinitely at the beginning
of 2010. Local action groups are struggling against this as noise pollution in Rastatt is
expected. The Federal Ministry of Transport, Building and Urban Development argues that
Rastatt is not a bottleneck and the building activities have to concentrate on the section
Offenburg – Basel.




                                                        74
                                                                    Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
____________________________________________________________________________________________

In fact, for high frequency railway lines and, especially for construction of new railways, the
citizens become more and more aware of noise items. This must be kept in mind for all
planning.

4.1.2.     Alpine regions

4.1.2.1.   General aspects


This section provides general aspects concerning railway noise in Alpine and mountain
regions and presents details about two railway corridors in the Alps.

Important and interesting aspects about noise impacts in alpine regions come from the
ALPNAP project.

ALPNAP has been a European research project [ALPNAP 2007-2] funded by INTERREG IIIB
in ERDF Funds. The main target was to develop exact but also practical calculation methods
for air and noise pollution prediction. As there is a gap between difficult scientific
calculation and practical approach (easy formulas and assumption methods), the project
aimed at the development of methods that were acceptable and sufficiently precise.

The project partners made many measurements for pollution and environmental noise
emissions in defined areas like the Brenner corridor with Inn Valley and Edige/Etsch valley
and the Fréjus corridor with Maurienne valley and Susa valley.

Concerning environmental noise (in general) one important result of the project is that the
spread of noise depends on weather conditions and time of day. Examples are shown in the
following figures.

Figure 25:    Direction of sound spreading (sound rays) during day




                                               Source: ALPNAP 2007-1, page 10.


During the day, the temperature decreases with height and the sound is refracted upward.
In the dotted blue areas (“acoustical shadow zones”) on the valley bottom the noise is
reduced significantly because the upward refracted sound rays cannot reach there.




                                              75
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

Figure 26:       Direction of sound spreading (sound rays) during night




                                                         Source: ALPNAP 2007-1, page 10.


During the night, the temperature increases with height in an inversion layer (shown grey)
and the sound is refracted downward. Acoustical shadow zones do not appear. Instead the
sound is reflected at the ground.

Wind speeds and wind directions have an impact on environmental noise. Also, in valleys
reflections can spread environmental noise up to high altitudes. Mostly low frequencies are
spread very wide as higher frequencies are well absorbed by air.

The most severe problem for transportation and its emissions in mountain areas is that
transportation infrastructure (both rail and road) as well as residential or industrial zones
are concentrated in (partly narrow) valleys. So all sources of noise are located very close
together.

Noise in mountain regions is even more annoying or economically harmful as the area is
used for tourism which is an important employment factor.

The figures above also show one important incident for protection measures. As noise in
valleys can spread up to very high altitudes where also inhabitants can be affected by
noise, protection walls have a lower influence on noise reduction.

4.1.2.2.     Alpine regions - The Inn Valley


The Inn Valley between Kufstein and Innsbruck is the major access line to the Brenner
railway line where a tunnel has been planned for a long time. The Inn Valley was examined
in the ALPNAP project and will become more important for freight trains when the Brenner
tunnel is opened. An estimation of future rail traffic was made.

In the year 2005, 40 regional passenger trains, 16 long distance passenger trains,
([Kummer et al. 2006], page 24) and about 100 freight and RoLa-trains are operating on
the Brenner line. Taking into account the rise of freight trains - about 4.3% per year
between 1999 and 2005 - a total rise of about 52% is expected for 2015. ÖBB (Austrian
Federal Railway) expects 186 freight trains in 2016 ([Kummer et al. 2006], page 25).
Passenger trains will remain at about 46 regional and 26 long distance trains. This shows
that freight trains have a share of 64 to 68%. So they have the majority on the Brenner
line which affects the Inn Valley.




                                                        76
                                                                    Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
____________________________________________________________________________________________

Austria may be considered as good practice regarding rail noise abatement. More than 12
years ago noise emission inventories were compiled and on this basis plans for the
implementation and financing of noise abatement measures along railway lines were
developed. In recent years, the annual financial means amounted to some 30 million Euros.
It is expected to spend the same amount in the years to come as well. The costs are
carried 50% by the Austrian railways ÖBB and the remaining 50% by the federal states and
the community [ÖBB - BMVIT 2008].

Through this programme, Austria has realised considerably more protection measures as
foreseen in the first phase of the EU Noise Directive 2002/49/EC. In 2008, the programme
had achieved the following results:

Table 24:     Results of the Austrian rail noise abatement programme


                                    ACTION                         FIGURES

              Planning in communities                                  236

              Implementation in communities                            185

              Inhabitants covered in plans                          250,280

              Inhabitants benefitting from implementation           183,603

              Noise barriers [m2]                                  1,263,706

              Length of noise barriers [m]                          413,016
                                                        Source: ÖBB – BMVIT 2008.


In 2008, 72% of the citizens covered in the plans benefited from noise protection
measures. Since then, the size of the rail noise barriers has increased to some 1.7 million
sq. m [m2]; in 2011 two thirds of the planned construction works are completed and most
of the severely affected inhabitants are protected against noise. Through the continuation
of the programme, 10–15,000 additional citizens annually will be protected against rail
noise.

The effects of noise barriers in the mountainous Inn Valley can be seen on the map below,
where the inhabitants of the small town of Jenbach are protected against high noise levels
that show up in the unprotected outskirts of the settlement. However, the map shows as
well the effects of noise reflection from the adjacent mountains.




                                              77
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

Figure 27:       Impacts of noise protection barriers in Jenbach, Inn Valley, Austria




                                      Source: Austrian Noise mapping, http://gis.lebensministerium.at/geoinfo).


4.1.2.3.     Alpine regions – The Fréjus line


The Fréjus line is the rail freight corridor between France and Italy. Additional to this it is
part of the planned high speed and rail freight corridor between Lyon and Turin.

The Frésjus-Coridor, especially the Susa (between City of Susa and Modane) and the
Maurienne Valley (between Modane and Aiguebelle), was also examined in the ALPNAP
project. For the Fréjus line the numbers of daily trains on the Italian side (Susa Valley) of
the total line are published in [ALPNAP 2007-2] on page 241. The table is represented
below.

Table 25: Example of railway traffic data in the Susa Valley; Number of trains for
          an average workday


                                     TYPE OF                                                         SPEED
         SECTION                                             DAY      EVENING          NIGHT
                                      TRAIN                                                         [KM/H]
                                  Regional                   35            14              3            120

Borgone Susa                      International               3             3              0            130
– Bussoleno
                                  Freight                    21            11             13            85

                                  Goods                      49            23             29            95

                                  Regional                   18             7              3            120

Bussoleno                         International               0             0              0            130
– Susa
                                  Freight                     0             0              0            85

                                  Goods                       0             0              0            95




                                                        78
                                                                      Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
____________________________________________________________________________________________


                               TYPE OF                                                     SPEED
       SECTION                                   DAY       EVENING           NIGHT
                                TRAIN                                                     [KM/H]
                            Regional              9             4                0            110

Bussoleno                   International         2             2                0            110
– Salbertrand
                            Freight              11             5                6            75

                            Goods                24             12              14            85

                            Regional             17             7                0            110
Salbertrand                 International         3             3                0            110
–
Bardonecchia                Freight              21             11              13            75

                            Goods                49             23              29            85

                            Regional              1             0                0            75

Bardonecchia                International         3             2                0            75
– Modane
                            Freight              21             11              13            70

                            Goods                49             23              29            70
                                                                    Source: ALPNAP 2007-2, page 241.


Here freight and goods trains have the majority on the main line, especially at night (as in
the Inn Valley) and in the sections between Bussoleno and Modane. The share of freight
trains is higher than on the Brenner line / in the Inn Valley.

The study has already shown that rolling noise is the most important environment noise
source from trains at speeds between 30 and 200 km/h and that freight trains are the
noisiest trains. Considering this, the most important starting point to lower noise,
particularly in mountain areas, is to avoid rolling noise directly at the original source
(contact zone of rail and wheel).

For the Fréjus Corridor the ALPNAP project produced a noise pollution index which shows
the number of people which are affected by a certain noise pollution index (see Figure 28).
The meaning of the indices is declared in Figure 29 and Figure 30.

Figure 28:      Noise pollution in the Fréjus Corridor




                                            Source: ALPNAP 2007-2, page 288.




                                            79
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

The noise pollution index defined by ALPNAP project is represented in the following figures:

Figure 29:       Noise pollution index (NPI) due to simultaneous exposure to rail and
                 road sources




                                                        Source: ALPNAP 2007-2, page 154.


Figure 30:       Interpretation of the NPI values




                                                        Source: ALPNAP 2007-2, page 154.


The NPI shows the exposure to noise in dependence of the LDEN noise level caused by both
road and rail traffic.

Although train traffic is high in the Fréjus-Corridor, about 30,000 out of 146,000 people
(see [Alpnap 2007-2] page 286) are affected by NPI levels higher than 1.

An interesting result of the ALPNAP Study is that a modal shift from road to rail will lead to
an increase of people affected by NPI 5 to NPI 6. The reason is that the motorways in the
Fréjus-Corridor are already well equipped with noise protection walls in populated areas in
comparison with the railway lines.

There are many protests against the project of a high speed railway line between Turin and
Lyon especially concerning the affected valleys. In detail the high-speed line will consist of
about 200 km new build railway lines including the new Mont-Cenis-Base-Tunnel (56 km).
This tunnel will completely pass by the Susa-Valley between Modane and Susa. On the
Italian side the Bussoleno-Tunnel will directly follow the Mont-Cenis-Base-Tunnel (12 km)
so only a short part of the railway line will remain outside in the area of Susa. On the
French side also two long tunnels (Bolledonne Tunnel, (20 km) and Chartreuse Tunnel
(20km – freight trains only) are foreseen passing by big parts of the Maurienne-Valley


                                                        80
                                                                  Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
 ____________________________________________________________________________________________

[Transalpine]. With all these tunnels only short parts of the new line remain uncovered in
the Valleys.

Protests against this project concern air pollution (due to excavations of asbestos and
uranium), general threats for the nature of the valleys and disturbances due to building
works (15 – 20 years). During the building phase economic losses due to shrinking of
tourism in the affected areas are expected. Noise is also mentioned in some of the
publications but is not a main aspect of the protests. Most relevant are disturbances during
the building phase.

4.1.3.         United Kingdom

The UK uses a variety of noise mitigating technologies including noise barriers, rail
lubricators and friction modifiers, rail-tuned absorbers, and, usually in tunnels, resilient
base plates and floating slab track. Approximately 75% of the UK freight wagon fleet has
disc brakes or composite tread brakes instead of the noisier cast-iron tread-braked wheels.

In England 27 , 23 Noise Action Plans were designed to address the management of noise
issues and effects in agglomerations. According to these plans, 1.3 million inhabitants of
agglomerations are affected by rail noise; of these, 68% live in Greater London. Outside
agglomerations, only 4,000 inhabitants are included in Noise Action Plans.

The theoretical study in this section estimates the potential impact of building noise
barriers with 2m height along all railway lines in English agglomerations. It is assumed that
noise barriers reduce the noise levels by 5–10 dB(A). Due to these rough assumptions, only
the magnitude of the impact may be estimated. The number of affected inhabitants would
decrease by 54–84%. This implies that in English agglomerations only 200,000 to 600,000
inhabitants would be affected by rail noise, compared to 1.3 million without noise
protection measures. Figure 31 shows the range of impacts of noise barriers in English
agglomerations.

The environmental cost of rail noise in English agglomerations may be estimated at 144
million Euros per year. These costs would be reduced through the implementation of noise
barriers by annually 86 to 126 million Euros.




27
     UK not including Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.



                                                        81
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

Figure 31:       Effects of rail noise barriers on the number of inhabitants of
                 agglomerations in England




              Source: calculation by the authors according to Noise Action Plans in England.


For rail noise protection in England it has been decided that the important areas with
respect to noise from major railways will be where the 1% of the population that are
affected by the highest noise levels from major railways are located according to the results
of the strategic noise mapping (“Important Areas”; see Figure 32). In addition, those
locations where the LAeq,18h is at least 73 dB(A) according to the results of the strategic
noise mapping have been identified as “First Priority Locations”. The following timeline for
railways was developed:

April 2010 – Oct 2011 Relevant rail authorities investigate Important Areas (giving priority
                      to those that contain First Priority Locations)
April 2011 onwards    Relevant rail authorities implement any actions or secure budget for
                      actions
April 2012 onwards    Relevant rail authorities investigate remaining Important Areas and
                      implement any actions or secure budget for actions

An example of Important Areas arising from the English Noise Action Planning is given in
Figure 32.




                                                        82
                                                                    Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
____________________________________________________________________________________________

Figure 32:    Important Areas, Noise Action Plan for Sheffield, England




                                                                        Source: DEFRA 2010.




4.2.       Detailed analysis of selected sections

This section describes effects of noise reduction measures for selected sections of the rail
network. Assessments for effects of noise reductions are made with the use of defined
measures from Section 3.3 on page 53).

The authors made a general analysis of the sections as detailed examinations in real
situations were not possible. Some generalisations have been made. For example, noise
barriers were assumed to be built in each location where inhabitants are affected, not
taking into account if this will be technically feasible or whether installations already exist.
Therefore, a range of noise impacts of the different measures had to be defined as given in
Table 26. These figures were again adapted to the local conditions, i.e., used rolling stock,
number of trains and share of train types (long distance, regional, freight trains). For
replacement of cast iron by composite block brakes or equipment of freight cars with wheel
absorbers, a 100% endowment of all relevant wagons is assumed.

Calculations were made with the actual state and the if-case (if-case = the measure is
introduced completely in the section).




                                              83
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

Table 26:        Range of noise reduction

                                                                MIN       MAX
                               MEASURE
                                                             REDUCTION REDUCTION

                   Composite brake blocks on
                                                              8 dB(A)         10 dB(A)
                   freight wagons

                   Noise barriers (2m high)                   5 dB(A)         10 dB(A)

                   Wheel absorbers                            2 dB(A)          7 dB(A)

                   Rail tuned absorbers                       3 dB(A)          7 dB(A)
                                               Source: own summary according to section 3.3.


The following elaboration also includes an assumption of noise reduction effects by
reduction of external rail noise costs. For cost calculation the same method was applied as
the study “External Costs of Transport in Europe 2008” commissioned by the International
Railway Union (UIC) in 2011 [CE Delft et al. 2011]. The study quantifies the monetary
impacts of steady noise exposure of people at different levels by a review of European
studies of housing prices and assesses additional medical costs by the increased risk of
cardiac infarctions based on latest epidemiological research. The resulting non-linear noise
exposure cost function is then applied to national statistics on noise affected inhabitants by
5 dB(A) LDEN noise classes.

4.2.1.       The Rhine Axis section Koblenz – Bingen

The selected section between Koblenz and Bingen represents an area in a narrow valley
with high frequency railway lines on one of the main European transportation corridors (see
also Section 4.1.1 on page 71).

The location of the section is given in Figure 33. The valley has four tracks, two on each
river bank. The essential data and results of the assessment are given in Table 27.

Figure 33:       Section Koblenz - Bingen, impacts of measures




                                                                 Source: Own calculation by the authors.




                                                        84
                                                                           Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
 ____________________________________________________________________________________________

In this section of the Rhine Valley, nearly 68,000 people are affected by rail noise above 55
dB(A). Rail noise causes damages in the order of 11 million Euros per year. However, these
may be reduced significantly: The strongest impacts are achieved through the construction
of noise barriers. If - theoretically - the whole valley were protected, only 17,000–36,000
inhabitants will still be affected afterwards and the environmental costs will be reduced by
47%–72% (Figure 33). However, this would imply considerable costs, as well as strong
visual intrusions. If new brake blocks were implemented, the environmental costs could be
reduced by 51-57%. The lower value is due to the fact that passenger trains are not
affected by this measure. Wheel absorbers reduce environmental costs by 21-58%.

Table 27: Impacts of noise reduction measures in the Middle Rhine Valley

                                     ITEM                                                VALUE

No of freight trains / day (both directions)                                               265

No of passenger trains / day (both directions)                                             157


No of remaining inhabitants affected by rail noise (>55dB(A))

Without measures
                                                                                        67,550
With noise protection barriers
                                                                                    16,850 – 36,200
With low-noise brake blocks (K and LL)
                                                                                    28,985 – 32,907
With wheel noise absorbers
                                                                                    28,460 – 55,010


Remaining annual external rail noise costs [million €]

Without measures
                                                                                          10.7
With noise protection barriers
                                                                                        4.4 – 8.4
With low-noise brake blocks (K and LL)
                                                                                        4.6 – 5.2
With wheel noise absorbers
                                                                                        4.4 – 8.4
                                                                    Source: Own calculation by the authors.



4.2.2.        United Kingdom section Thameslink near Blackfriars in London

In order to have an example about a railway line in a dense populated agglomeration with
a large frequency of trains per hour, Thameslink was chosen as a case study. Rail noise of
railway lines in metropolises by nature affects a lot of people. So it is very important to find
good solutions for inner-city lines. Thameslink is considered to be a good example because
it represents an area with dense population and a planned extension of traffic.

Thameslink runs through the heart of London, crossing the River Thames at Blackfriars
Bridge, operating along a 225km route between Bedford in the north and Brighton on the
south coast. The service stops at King’s Cross / St Pancras International, Luton Airport and
Gatwick Airport, and an offshoot (the Wimbledon Loop) passes through south-west London.
An estimated 75000 people every day use Thameslink to get in and out of London.

Thameslink 2000 is a £5.5bn programme 28 to increase service capacity and frequency on
the Thameslink route, with longer trains and eventually new rolling stock. The route from
St Pancras to London Bridge is being upgraded, and Blackfriars station is being rebuilt to

28
     Thameslink 2000 Programme website: http://www.thameslinkprogramme.co.uk/.



                                                   85
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

span the river, with a new entrance on the south bank; the station will be ready for 12-car
trains by December 2011, and completed in time for the 2012 Olympics. The Thameslink
2000 project was originally proposed in 1991, and, following a public inquiry in 2005,
planning permission was finally granted in 2006.

As a result of the public inquiry, many of the relevant documents are available to the public
through the Inquiry’s website 29 or on request.

As part of the Environmental Impact Assessment, Temple Environmental consultants Ltd
produced the ‘Noise & Vibration Specialist Report’ in June 2004 [Thameslink 2004], and the
‘Blackfriars Noise Assessment Report’ in 2005 [Thameslink 2005]. These reports include
calculations and predictions of rail noise, using ISVR’s NORBERT 30 model, and make
recommendations regarding the use of noise mitigation technologies.

One of the goals of the Thameslink programme is to run 24 trains per hour, each way,
between Blackfriars and St Pancras Midland Road; and 18 trains per hour, each way,
between Blackfriars and London Bridge. Blackfriars Railway Bridge is a steel decked bridge
across the Thames (see Figure 34 and Figure 35) with ballasted track. In 2004, the traffic
across the bridge during the day was 233 Thameslink trains and 133 other trains; during
the night, the traffic was 39 Thameslink trains and 11 other trains. The target is to increase
this to 672 Thameslink trains and 70 other trains during the day, and 74 Thameslink trains
during the night.

Figure 34:        Left: View of Blackfriars Railway Bridge from the south bank. Right:
                  First Capital Connect Class 319 EMU.




                                                                                       Source: Thameslink 2005.


In addition to increasing the number of trains, capacity will be further increased by
replacing 8-car trains with 12-car trains during peak hours; during off-peak hours, 4-car
trains will be replaced by 8-car trains. To some extent the increase in noise from the
additional traffic will be offset by the introduction of quieter rolling stock. In 2004,
Thameslink operated Class 319 EMUs primarily, and have since acquired all Class 319
vehicles still operational 31 . These are disc-braked; the last of the Class 421 and 423 EMUs
with cast iron tread brakes were phased out during 2004. The Class 319 fleet was
manufactured during 1987-90. First Capital Connect (who took over the Thameslink
franchise in 2006) have recently acquired 23 Class 377/5 EMU 4-car trains (Electrostars),

29
     Thameslink 2000 Public Inquiry website: http://www.tl2000inquiry.org.uk/.
30
     ISVR’s NORBERT model calculates structural radiation of bridge noise using a detailed model of track and
     bridge structure, rail roughness and rolling stock type. (Thompson, D.J., Jones, C.J.C., Bewes, O.G., 2005,
     ‘NORBERT – Software for Predicting the Noise of Railway Bridges and Elevated Structures, Version 2.0,’ ISVR
     Contract Report, CR 05.12; also see David Herron, 2009, ‘Vibration of railway bridges in the audible frequency
     range,’ Thesis submitted for Engineering Doctorate, University of Southampton.)
31
     The Class 319 is a dual-voltage EMU, and therefore able to operate both north of the River Thames, which uses
     a 25kV AC overhead supply, and south of the river, which uses a 750V DC third rail.



                                                        86
                                                                    Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
____________________________________________________________________________________________

manufactured in 2008-09. The train noise correction for the Class 377/5 is 8.4 dB(A),
compared to 11.3 dB(A) for the Class 319.

Figure 35:    Overview of viaducts/bridges near Blackfriars station




                                                    Source: Thameslink 2005.


Regarding further rolling stock noise mitigation measures:

      wheel dampers may provide a cost-effective means of reducing curve squeal and
       flange contact noise;
      for vehicle mounted lubricators or wheel dampers Network Rail will work with TOCs
       and other stakeholders to install them to the existing rolling stock where it is found
       that such measures are reasonably practicable.

However, the EMUs are disc-braked and there is little scope to reduce rolling noise; future
design innovations in the suspension systems are not expected to reduce ground borne
noise and vibration; and, in general, train speed is not an effective means of vibration
reduction.



                                             87
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

Figure 36:       Measured noise levels in Blackfriars area




                                                                Source: Thameslink 2004.


Noise level projections for 2026, with or without the Thameslink upgrade, were used to
assess the impact of noise on local properties. The Thameslink programme was predicted to
reduce the number of affected residential properties from 44 to 24, and the number of non-
residential properties from 14 to 8. In either case, the majority of these impacts are either
slight or moderate. The reason why so few properties are affected is that, even close to the
railway, rail noise does not dominate over the ambient noise level. Predicted noise level
increases near Blackfriars Railway Bridge are shown in Figure 37.




                                                        88
                                                                   Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
____________________________________________________________________________________________

Figure 37:    Predicted noise increase by 2026 at nearby facades as a result of
              daytime railway operation




                                                     Source: Thameslink 2004.


One distinctive source of noise at Blackfriars is the jointed track, which gives rise to the
characteristic ‘pounding’ noise. Removal of joints will reduce the noise level by about 3.1
dB(A), and will significantly improve the subjective impression of the bridge noise.
Regarding track renewals and remodelling between Blackfriars and London Bridge:

      All jointed track will be removed as far as practical where track is renewed and
       replaced with Continuously Welded Rail or Long Welded Rail. Any unnecessary
       Switches and Crossings (S&Cs) will be removed and joints to remaining S&Cs will be
       welded. All new or replacement expansion joints will be scarfed.

Another source of noise, about 6 dB(A), is flange contact on the curve south of the bridge
(Falcon Point). As part of the renewal programme, this section will be replaced with modern
track to a high specification, avoiding sudden changes in curvature at rail joints. Where
necessary, flange lubricators will be installed or replaced.

Network Rail has a regular inspection and maintenance programme, and is committed to
removing any corrugation. In addition, vehicles are monitored for wheel flats. No significant
benefit in noise level is expected from imposing more frequent grinding or an enhanced
wheel set maintenance regime.




                                             89
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

Where effective and safe, Network Rail is willing to use rail dampers 32 . However, rail
damping is not effective when used with stiff rail pads. In the Blackfriars area (in 2005),
the rail was supported on stiff pads or no pads at all. Rail dampers would not have affected
the bridge noise component, and only a 0.8 dB(A) reduction would have been achieved in
the direct rolling noise.

Noise barriers are a visual intrusion, particularly since they are a target for graffiti; they
have a high cost, and cause problems for track access. Their effectiveness depends on their
absorption properties, their height, and the proximity of the barrier to the noise source
and/or to the receiver. At Blackfriars, noise barriers will not be particularly effective since
the railway is multiple-track, and many of the affected properties overlook the track.
However, the new station roof will incorporate sound absorbent material which will help to
increase the noise attenuation provided by the barriers, and a new Vitreous enamel clad
Bridge 412 enclosure will shield 1 Puddle Dock.

A variety of noise mitigating trackforms were considered for reducing noise levels around
the Blackfriars Railway Bridge, including ballast mats (which can be problematic for
maintenance and tamping), resilient baseplates, booted sleepers, and Pandrol’s VANGUARD
(which clamps the rail around the web and under the head, as well as under the foot) on
ballasted track; and slab track with soft rail pads or baseplates. While these track designs
reduce noise levels significantly when compared with the reference design, they do not
provide any meaningful reduction in overall train noise levels. At Falcon Point, railway noise
is expected to reduce by 3–4 dB at the upper floors closest to the Bridge. This benefit
would affect some 6 dwellings. The cost will be disproportionately high in relation to the
scale of the potential benefit. There is no justification to install resilient baseplates on
Blackfriars Railway Bridge.


4.2.3.         Noise Impact of High Speed Lines in the UK

The East Coast Mainline (ECML) operates between Edinburgh and London King’s Cross and
the West Coast Mainline (WCML) operates between Glasgow and London Euston. The lines
are rated for 200 km/h for the most part, and even for 225 km/h in places. However, UK
legislation requires in-cab signalling for train speeds over 200 km/h, which has prevented
operation at 225 km/h on these lines. Currently the only line in the UK operating at speeds
over 200 km/h is High Speed 1 (HS1). High Speed 2 (HS2) is currently in the early
planning stages and is expected to start operation in 2025.

4.2.3.1.       High speed 1 (HS1)
High Speed 1 is the route from London to the Channel Tunnel which started operation in
2007. After leaving St Pancras, the line crosses the ECML and immediately enters a tunnel
which passes underneath London for 20 km (line speed for this stretch is 230 km/h, but
other tunnels on the route have a speed limit of 270 km/h); the bridge across the ECML to
the tunnel entrance is fully enclosed by a tube with acoustic grey cladding to shield the
local environment from noise (although this is not completely effective). Pandrol’s
VANGUARD and a variety of other noise mitigation technologies are implemented along the
route: noise bunds and barriers (including low barriers on viaducts), Sateba booted sleeper
track system (Slab track SAT SB12), and GERB’s floating slab track (also used in London’s
Docklands Light Railway).

32
     Blackfriars Station will be the first site in the UK to install Tata Steel’s SilentTrack noise damping system – this
     is scheduled for February 2012.



                                                           90
                                                                 Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
____________________________________________________________________________________________

There is no noise map for HS1, but there are a few comments on noise in the written
evidence in the Transport Committee HS2 report:

      ‘experience in Kent and elsewhere shows how the noise footprint of HSR trains can
       be mitigated’

      ‘the experience of HS1 is that fears expressed before its construction have mostly
       not been realised’

      ‘it would appear from the lack of complaints related to HS1 operation that the noise
       impact can be overrated by objectors at the planning stage’

      ‘HS1’s impact has been masked to some extent by the route passing close to
       existing busy roads’

Overall, HS1 has been a positive development with very few complaints about noise.

4.2.3.2.   High Speed 2 (HS2)
This section refers to the Tenth Report of Session 2010-12 of the House of Commons
Transport Committee, regarding High Speed Rail (HSR), specifically High Speed 2 (HS2),
and associated written evidence. HS2 is planned for 2025.

Remit:
‘HS2 Ltd was established as a Government company to examine the case and develop
proposals for a new high-speed railway line between London and the West Midlands, and
potentially beyond. Its remit was to identify a route between London and the West Midlands
with the primary aims of increasing passenger capacity on the corridor and optimising
journey times. It was a requirement of the remit that the route should include an
interchange between HS2, the Great Western Main Line and Crossrail, with convenient
access to Heathrow.’

Proposal:
‘HS2 Ltd has proposed a London – West Midlands route that avoids any significant
demolition of property except for the Euston station area; about half the route would be in
deep cutting or tunnel, to reduce noise and visual intrusion on adjacent areas.’ The
proposal focuses on 400 km/h high speed rail route. This is expected to free up capacity on
the West Coast Mainline and allow greater rail freight utilisation.

Noise Issues:
No Environmental Impact Assessment has been carried out for HS2, and none is planned
until after the current consultation exercise. An Appraisal of Sustainability (AoS) has been
published which includes a technical report on noise and vibration.

Following England’s Noise Action Plan and the Noise Insulation (Railways and Other Guided
Transport Systems) Regulations, the noise measure LAeq,18h (noise averaged over the
period 06.00–24.00) has been used as the primary indicator of noise level, with an imposed
limit of 73 dB – since noise levels higher than this would make the route a ‘First Priority
Location’, i.e., an immediate target for noise mitigation.




                                            91
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

While such a strategy might be acceptable for already noisy areas, part of the proposed
route runs through an Area of Natural Beauty (AONB) where the environmental impact of
the railway is a major concern. Consequently, there has been fierce opposition to HS2
along this section of the route, including complaints about noise levels:

       ‘Acceptable’ noise levels do not follow WHO guidelines or English Planning
        Permission (PPG24) guidelines. The latter would limit noise levels to 66 dB, or even
        less considering the rural environment. The former recommends that peak noise
        levels be considered, not just the average, and for high speed trains the difference
        between these is large.

       Concern over the visual impact of noise barriers, coupled with the concern that
        these will not block aerodynamic noise from pantographs. In addition, in the noise
        prediction modelling, pantograph noise has been modelled as a noise source at rail
        track height, which is not appropriate and underestimates the noise impact. (The
        AoS assumes a 3 dB reduction in noise emissions based on improved noise control
        measures in future rolling stock, and notes the importance of mitigating the source
        of aerodynamic noise. 100 km of 2–3 metre high noise barriers are included in the
        model.)

       The noise impact from the ground-borne Raleigh shock wave of high-speed trains
        travelling at 400 km/h over flood plains, soft alluvial ground, etc., has not been
        considered, nor has the cost of mitigation measures against this.

       The number of trains used in the noise modelling is 432 per day, but the potential
        train throughput could be up to 576 trains. The system needs to be modelled at full
        operational capacity, otherwise noise regulations will put a severe constraint on
        route utilisation.

       Noise modelling has been carried out for a maximum speed of 360 km/h, even in
        places where the design speed is higher.

In summary, the HS2 assessment of noise levels both uses an arguably too-high definition
of acceptable noise level, and underestimates noise levels arising from pantographs,
ground-borne shock waves and full system capacity. This highlights the need for a full
Environmental Impact Assessment and a clearer remit on noise and vibration levels in the
AONB.

The strongest arguments against HS2 can be countered by lowering the line speed from
400 km/h to, e.g., 240 km/h in sensitive areas. Although this will increase journey time,
and weakens the economic case for HS2, it will significantly reduce the environmental
impact of construction and of operational noise and energy requirements. A lower design
speed also allows the route to follow the existing M1 motorway, further reducing
environmental impact.




                                                        92
                                                                               Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
 ____________________________________________________________________________________________



5.            EVALUATION

                                               KEY FINDINGS

         There are different possibilities for financial support and regulative activities to
          foster the introduction of noise reduction measures.

         Noise depending track access charges are one possibility next to direct support
          for low noise measures.

         Noise depending track access charges shall bear in mind that relevant noise
          reduction effects are only coming from trains which are (nearly) completely
          equipped with low noise rolling stock and that noise reduction measures may cause
          extra operative costs (next to investment cost).

         Regulation can focus on the TSI Noise where noise limits for new rolling stock are
          regulated. They shall be compulsory for existing rolling stock after about 10 –
          12 years and lowered from time to time according to latest technical possibilities.

         Currently Switzerland and the Netherlands have introduced noise depending
          track access charges, Germany is planning to introduce them at the end of the year
          2012.

         Competitiveness of rail transport in comparison with other transportation means
          must be borne in mind in all activities, so all financial and regulative measures shall
          not burden the rail sector.



This chapter describes and evaluates different methods for financial support of noise
reduction measures with the focus on promoting the retrofitting of freight wagons with new
braking systems. This is currently the most important discussion. Regulation possibilities
are also discussed.

5.1.          Economic incentives

Economic incentives through rail track charging differentiated according to noise emissions
can help to:

         stimulate the use of low-noise technology for the rolling stock,
         foster the use of routes which avoid hot spots for noise and
         foster noise-reducing operational routines and speeds in sensitive areas.

In general, there are two possibilities for the design of mark-ups for noise emissions: First,
the mark-ups can be added to the rail infrastructure charges of high noise polluters while
low noise polluters would be free of additional charges. In this case revenues are generated
which can be used for subsidising noise abatement investments for railway cars. 33 Second,
the mark-ups can be designed in a way that they are neutral with respect to the total
burdens from rail track charging, i.e., additional charges would be levied on high noise

33
     We discount the option to allocate the revenues to the infrastructure manager, because they do not reflect
     infrastructure costs.



                                                      93
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

polluters while low noise polluters would receive a bonus. Penalty and bonus payments
would balance after aggregation. This scheme would be comparable to the charging scheme
for heavy goods vehicles on motorways according to Directive 2006/38/EC (variant of
differentiating the charges on the base of EURO emissions standards).

The recast of Railway Directive 2001/14/EC foresees the differentiation of rail track charges
according to noise (see [Com(2010) 475] Article 31. There are several options to be
analysed:

         Differentiation of rail track charges according to measured noise emissions (see
          Section 5.1.1 );
         Differentiation of charges for wagons according to their noise classification (see
          Section 5.1.2 );
         Differentiation of charges for trains according to the composition of wagons (see
          Section 5.1.3 );
         Bonus payments for new and retrofitted cars (see Section 5.1.4 );
         Combined bonus systems (see Section 5.1.5 ).


5.1.1.         Differentiation of rail track charges according to measured noise
               emissions

The object of charging would be the train. The train-related noise emissions would have to
be measured at critical points in densely populated areas and/or low distances to
residential zones and then allocated to the train. The noise mark-up for the track charge
then would vary with the noise level, eventually in a progressive way.

Such a scheme would perfectly implement the polluter-pays principle. It works
independently from the car or wheel technology and cannot be manipulated by wrong
classification or changing electronic identification plates. However, it would require many
measurement posts or gentries alongside the tracks and a complex information, payment
and administration system. As a result, the implementation cost of such a system could be
very high. 34

As the charge will be paid initially by the train operator, the question is open how the train
operator (the railway enterprise) will pass on the costs to the cars’ owners/operators or to
the shippers.


5.1.2.         Differentiation of charges for wagons according to their noise
               classification

The simplest way to differentiate track charges according to noise is to classify the wagons
into noise categories and charge each wagon separately with a noise mark-up. The train
operator would pay the charge to the infrastructure manager and send the bill to the car
owner or operator.




34
     Some form of infrastructure for dynamic measurement and reporting of vehicle noise may be necessary
     anyway to reflect changes in the vehicle’s status, e.g., wheel out-of-roundness, which significantly affect noise
     levels; this could be coupled with existing trackside measuring stations. Higher-than-expected noise levels may
     indicate an urgent need for vehicle maintenance.



                                                          94
                                                                                    Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
 ____________________________________________________________________________________________

This scheme presupposes the introduction of noise standards for rail wagons (comparable
to EURO categories for road vehicles) and a rail-car-based km charge. While the technology
of charging, control and monitoring can be kept simple there is one serious caveat: The
noise emission curve is shaped in a strictly concave way (“diminishing marginal noise
emissions”) with increasing share of low noise cars. This means that a 50% share of low
noise cars in a train will lead to a noise reduction of only 1.5 dB(A) compared with a high
noise train, so that the exposed population will hardly notice the progress. The share of low
noise cars should be very high to achieve a significant noise reduction of a train. If, for
instance, 100% of freight cars are equipped with silent brakes the noise reduction can be
as much as 10 dB(A), which implies cutting noise by half. 35

In conclusion, this scheme is simple to implement, but does not fully reflect the polluter-
pays principle, i.e., a train composed of 50% low noise cars would pay reduced charges for
50% of the cars although the noise reduction is negligible. There is a risk, furthermore, that
identification plates (e.g., RFIDs) are manipulated to get wagons classified in favourable
categories.


5.1.3.         Differentiation of charges for trains according to the composition of
               wagons

To avoid the caveats mentioned in Section 5.1.2 on page 94, an alternative is to classify
the trains instead of the wagons. In this case, the trains will be classified on the basis of
the rail car types from which they are composed. This presupposes the introduction of noise
standards for rail wagons (as in 5.1.2 on page 94) and, in addition, the classification of
trains on the basis of the expected noise emissions.

In the case of freight trains, the problem arises that the emission category of a train would
vary with every change of the train composition in marshalling yards (single wagon traffic).
Indeed, the problem is that only block trains which do not change wagon types from start
to end can be easily classified. In single wagon transport, this classifying is much more
difficult as train composition changes with every shunting activity. If charging followed the
polluter-pays principle, then adding a few high-noise cars to a low-noise train would imply a
very high mark-up for the train, while adding a low-noise car to a high-noise train would
not lead to a change of the train charge. This will not be accepted by the market players
(i.e.: investment in low noise cars will not pay if these cars are often integrated in high
noise trains), so such a scheme should be modified in a more pragmatic way.

Nevertheless, the problem remains that the railway undertaking would have to charge the
car owners/operators/shippers, accordingly.


5.1.4.         Bonus payments for new and retrofitted cars

Against the background of the manifold problems of noise-related rail track charging and
the possible second round effect of losing market share to road transport, if the noise
charges are really high but lead to the desired noise reduction, the easiest way to come to
low noise technologies is to pay public subsidies for new low-noise cars and for retrofitting
used cars. Certainly this is the approach which will be most readily accepted by the market
players.

35
     Because of the logarithmic scale of the noise curve, details see Section 3.4 and Figure 23



                                                         95
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

While this burden should not fall on the tax payer, nevertheless this instrument can be an
element of an overall strategy to introduce an incentive-based system and to achieve a
high rate of penetration within a short period of time – much shorter than the lifetime of
railway cars, which can be estimated at about 40 years.


5.1.5.       Combined bonus systems

Whenever charging schemes are considered, companies worry about higher costs and the
possibility of losing market shares to the road transport mode. This is a relevant argument,
in particular in a political environment which aims at increasing rail freight market shares
for environmental reasons and to meet climate challenges.

Public financial assistance should be given in the initial phase of a charging scheme with
noise mark-ups. This could be implemented by a bonus payment for the purchase of new
cars which are equipped with noise reducing technology, and/or for retrofitting used cars.


5.1.6.       Current status of track charges

As the European Commission has decided on 27 September 2011 to allow charging for
emissions of road vehicles (see Directive 2011/76/EU of the European Parliament and of
the Council of 27 September 2011, amending Directive 1999/62/EC on the charging of
heavy goods vehicles for the use of certain infrastructures, as published OJEU L 269 on
14.10.11 [Dir. 2011/76/EU]) the way is also free for track charges according to noise
emissions on railways without regard for total earning of the infrastructure company (see
Recast of Railway Directive 2001/14/EC in [Com(2010) 475] Article 31).

The European Commission established a working group in 2011 to harmonise and
implement Trace Access Charge systems including noise depending instruments. The
recommendations from this study shall be considered by this group.

UIC has published (in [UIC 2010]) an overview about the current status of noise abatement
legislation in different countries. The Netherlands and Switzerland already have track
charges with a noise bonus and penalty. Since 2002, Switzerland has granted a bonus for
all wagons which are equipped with low noise brakes of 0.01 CHF (0.0075 €, exchange rate
November 2010) per axle-kilometre. The bonus is financed by the state, as well as the
retrofitting programme of all Swiss wagons. The Netherlands grants a bonus of 0.04 € per
wagon kilometre for all low noise wagons. The bonus is granted for two years up to a total
maximum of 4,800 € per wagon.

In Germany, a system will be introduced in 2012 in which a bonus will be granted only to
single freight wagons which are newly retrofitted with low noise equipment like composite
brake blocks after the introduction of the bonus scheme. Furthermore, a bonus is planned
for whole freight trains which consist of only low noise wagons. In this second part of the
bonus scheme, new and recently retrofitted wagons are also considered. Both parts of the
bonus will be realised as a discount on the track charge according to wagon kilometres.
This will be granted directly from the infrastructure company to the wagon owner.

In Switzerland there is a discussion about modifying the existing system. Both the German
and Swiss plans include a funding of owners of low-noise freight cars. The funding will be
organised and calculated by the infrastructure companies. They rely on the owner notifying


                                                        96
                                                                                    Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
 ____________________________________________________________________________________________

which freight cars are low-noise. The funding depends on axle-kilometres in both countries.
There are also discussions about the costs for the implementation and operation of the
accounting system. For VDV (in [KCW 2011]), KCW calculated the operating costs for
different kinds of funding systems for low-noise freight wagons. Funding for new wagons
which are equipped with LL-blocks (if they are admitted) is currently being discussed.

In detail, Germany plans to fund retrofitted freight cars with 0.0028 € per axle-kilometre on
German tracks up to a total of 1,688 € per axle. The total comes from estimated
investment costs of about 2,120 € per axle minus 432 € as opportunity saving for
replacement of an old cast iron block by a new one. The costs for the bonus will be covered
50% by the German state and 50% by a general increase of track prices for all freight
trains.

In a study for the European Commission, KCW proposes a funding of 0.008 € per axle-
kilometre for K-block equipped wagons and 0.0025 € per axle-kilometre for LL-block
equipped wagons [KCW 2009]. The figures mentioned are for a funding period of 8 years.
For a potential funding period of 12 years the figures are 0.0045 € per axle-kilometre for K-
blocks and 0.002 € for LL-blocks.

Irmhild Saabel from WASCOSA AG held a presentation at Forum Güterwagen (forum freight
wagons) in May 2011 about costs coming from K-blocks [Saabel 2011]. The total costs for
blocks and wheels increase by a factor of 1.5 to 2.6. Although K-blocks have a life cycle of
about 110,000 to 130,000 km, the wheels need reprofiling each 120,000 to 310,000 km
(instead of 450,000 to 500,000 km) and have a life cycle of about only 360,000 to
1,140,000 km (instead of 2,700,000 to 3,500,000 km). Also Mr Gilliam from the AAE
reports higher operating costs, from first experiences, caused by abrasion of wheels with
modified blocks 36 .

Costs for railway undertakings or wagon owners, related to composite brake blocks, arise
not only from investment but also from operating.

To harmonise NDTAC on an EU-wide scale in 2011, the Commission established an expert
group under the DERC Committee [Rapacz 2011].

         The main aim: to discuss and propose practical solutions on how to harmonise
          NDTAC schemes across Member States, focusing on financial aspects.

         The result of the work of the group could be a set of guidelines for the Member
          States on NDTAC harmonisation / implementing measure adopted by the
          Commission on the basis of the recast.

         The group is to be restarted in 2012, following the recast developments.




36
     Early trials with composite tread brakes in the UK in the 1970s–80s found similar results.



                                                         97
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

5.2.         Analysis of regulation possibilities

The number of regulations on railway noise in the EU Member States is large. A brief
overview of the national noise measures is listed in Annex IV.

In 2003, the Working Group on Railway Noise of the European Commission [EC 2003] was
of the opinion that “a solution to the major railway noise issues is possible within 10 years
if the proposals are implemented as a cost-effective combination of the instruments
described”.

The most relevant standardisation issues for railway rolling stock have been formulated in
the TSI documents (Technical Specifications for Interoperability). In the latest TSI Noise
[TSI Noise 2011], the following regulations for noise emissions of rail vehicles are defined:

        Limits for stationary and pass-by noise for freight wagons and locomotives (for
         details see Annex II of this study),
        Operation and maintenance rules,
        Application to new rolling stock, and
        Retrofitting programmes.

While the rail noise problem is well understood and the technical possibilities are clearly
described in the European Commission documents, a timetable for introducing new noise
standards – comparable to the Euro standards for HGVs – is missing until now. However,
because rail cars are clustered tightly (i.e., grouped as trains), the equipping of rail cars
with low noise technology is only effective if a large proportion of the cars use this
technology (see Section 1.2 on page 15).

Retrofitting the current freight fleet with composite brake blocks will be a slow process
since a charging scheme is required that creates an incentive to retrofit without increasing
the overall cost of rail freight transport relative to other transport modes. The planned
funding in Germany (see Section 5.1.6 on page 96) is not attractive enough for a part of
wagon owners, since a negative impact on railway transport costs would be inevitable.

Therefore, developing a regulation scheme for a staged process towards low-noise rolling
stock must be the heart of a noise abatement strategy for railways. The economic
instruments developed in Section 5.1 on page 93 then would serve as incentive engines, for
instance as a motivation for top runners to start early with retrofitting or purchasing new
noise-reduced cars and for the followers to reduce their costs.


5.2.1.       Regulating technology for noise emissions?

Currently the discussion focuses on the braking system of rail cars. Most noise in railway
operations is caused by rough running surfaces of wheels and tracks. If both can be kept
smooth, noise can be reduced significantly [CER UIC 2007]. The conventional cast-iron
brake blocks cause a fast deterioration of wheels and rough wheel surfaces and high noise
levels are a consequence. If this braking technology can be exchanged by modern
composite brake blocks the noise emissions can be reduced by up to 10 dB(A).

Retrofitting with composite brake blocks targets brake noise and elevated rolling noise, but
there are other sources of noise, locations which require an even greater noise reduction



                                                        98
                                                                  Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
____________________________________________________________________________________________

than can be gained by retrofitting alone, and there are many railway vehicles which do not
have cast-iron tread brakes. Noise reduction can also be achieved by rail- and wheel-tuned
absorbers and other technical measures. Furthermore, technological development may
yield new technologies in the next years to come. This brings up the question whether the
regulation towards a particular noise reduction technology makes sense. In any case, the
regulation should allow for alternative technologies if they have proved to achieve at least
the same reduction performance. The Japanese Top-runner scheme gives an example for
an incentive compatible regulation scheme. The current best technology is set as a
standard in the medium term (e.g.: 5–7 years).

An alternative way of regulation consists of setting upper limits for local noise emissions.
Directive 2002/49/EC gives the basic definitions of indicators, methods of measurement
and mapping of exposed population. The Member States are obliged to identify hot spots
where noise limits are exceeded and to prepare action plans not later than July 2013. The
national legislation for noise control is well developed for new investments which lead to
additional traffic and noise production. The big challenge remaining is the noise protection
of population alongside existing railway tracks. In principle it would be possible to prepare
a noise directive comparable to the Air Quality Directives 1999/30 and 2008/50, which limit
the local concentration of exhaust emissions like NOx and PM. Analogously, a noise quality
directive could limit the noise levels alongside the tracks at maximum thresholds,
depending on the environment and the exposed population.

The advantage of emission dependent regulation is that the industry is free to find the best
technologies to meet the limit values set. A disadvantage is that it will take some time to
achieve a consensus of the Member States on noise limit values. After the painful
experiences gained with the introduction of Directive 1999/30 (Council Directive
1999/30/EC of 22 April 1999 relating to limit values for sulphur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide
and oxides of nitrogen, particulate matter and lead in ambient air) one can expect that the
Member States will check such values carefully to avoid massive investments in their
transport infrastructure for noise abatement.

Therefore, the most promising way for the medium term future is to start from the platform
of TSIs and the Recast of the Railway Packages (see [TSI Noise 2011] and [Com(2010)
475]). This can be formulated in a way that the expected noise reduction is clearly defined
while the technology used is not specified in detail, leaving options open for technological
progress.


5.2.2.     Regulation authorities

The European Railway Agency (ERA), established in 2006 in Valenciennes following the
second railway package, is responsible for TSIs and can take responsibility for developing
the appropriate noise regulation for railway cars as well. This regulation can be controlled
by the national railway regulation authorities – following the first railway package the
establishment of national railway regulators is obligatory for each Member State.

From this follows that the existing national bodies can be involved in the control of rail
noise emissions more intensively and with the necessary administrative power. A close
coordination with the road and air transport regulators is necessary to avoid market
distortions stemming from unbalanced regulation.




                                             99
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

5.3.         Analysis of stakeholder remarks on economic incentives
             and regulation

Since it is not possible to reflect the position of each railway stakeholder in Europe within
this framework, the position of the International Railway Union (UIC) is provided. UIC
makes frequent statements of the issue which generally acknowledge the need for noise
reduction measures. UIC favours the following strategies [UIC 2010]:
     Reduce the noise of all new freight vehicles by introducing TSI limit values.

       Promote the retrofitting of existing freight vehicles with composite brake blocks.

       Build noise barriers and install noise insulated windows.

       Pursue further solutions in special cases such as acoustic rail grinding, rail
        absorbers, wheel absorbers, friction modification against curve squeal, etc. The
        precondition is regular maintenance.

UIC considers LL-brake blocks to be a “promising noise reduction measure; however they
still require further improvement before they can be used on a large scale in Europe”.

Other options, such as speed limits and land-use planning are rejected [UIC 2008]. Speed
limits need to be substantial (50 km/h) to have a considerable noise impact and thus “are
not compatible with the operation of a commercially competitive railway”. Land-use
planning measures are of little effect, since at distances further than 50 metres from the
source “noise level is insensitive to even medium changes in distance”.

UIC's main concern is that noise reduction measures might burden the railways in a
manner that the competition with the road sector is distorted. The burden may be created
either through high investment costs or excessive administrative tasks. “Due to fierce
competition, wagon owners do not have sufficient resources to finance the retrofitting of
their fleet. Any incentive system should neither weaken the overall market share of the
freight sector nor disadvantage any freight market player” [UIC 2011].

Therefore, the cost efficiency of the measures (see Section 5.1 on page 93) is a major UIC
decision criterion. For example, the retrofitting with composite brake blocks is considered
as more efficient than the construction of noise barriers. UIC argues that an incentive
scheme should be developed, where public funds for retrofitting are diverted from the
railway network operators to the wagon owners. Additionally, UIC criticises the above-
mentioned studies commissioned by the EU [PWC 2007] and [KCW et al. 2009] for its “too
low cost assumptions related to the use of composite brake blocks. These assumptions
combined with too high an estimate of the average annual mileage may lead to a
differential track access charge which is insufficient for promoting retrofitting.”

Since direct funding does not take into account the wagon mileage, [UIC 2011] proposes a
bonus system combined with access charges: “national authorities should fund the
retrofitting of freight wagons by means of a noise reduction bonus … [which] would be
granted based on the mileage travelled on lines of the respective national networks. The
bonus would compensate the investment costs as well as the additional operating,
transaction and administrative costs.”




                                                        100
                                                                      Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
 ____________________________________________________________________________________________

In an interview with the authors in July 2011, Mr Kerth from VDV mentioned that the total
costs for retrofitting are about 0.008 € per axle-km if the additional operating costs and
financing costs are included in the calculation. Currently, the interest of the wagon owners
in retrofitting existing wagons due to this funding scheme is very low. A problem for the rail
sector can also rise because part of the financing of the bonus system will be financed by
an increase of track prices for the total freight train sector. This increase also affects
existing wagons which are already equipped with composite brake blocks. The press release
of VDV and VPI concerning the financing of the bonus from July 5th 2011 announces the
50% share of the rail sector as unfair [VDV VPI 2011]. It is the first time a transportation
mode would be burdened by costs for noise and it would only fund recently retrofitted
wagons, while existing low-noise or new-build wagons have to carry the increased track
prices.

In general, the planned funding scheme in Germany is accepted by the rail sector as it is a
direct funding of wagon owners and the system is not too complicated. The implementation
costs seem to be acceptable (see the elaborations in [KCW 2011]). Nevertheless, many
details still have to be clarified and agreed, such as the size of the bonus and its financing.
Also the inclusion of additional operating costs is still in discussion. If they are included, this
could lead to a lower share of the German state as this part of the funding is limited to 152
million Euros per year [VDV-2011-2]. VDV expects only 15% share of costs will be carried
by the Germany state if the additional operating costs remain to the rail sector.

UIC, CER, UIRR, ERFA, EIM and UIP comment in their position paper on a Consultation
document of the Commission concerning rail noise abatement measures in 2007 [UIC et al.
2007]. In this respect they point out that the funding scheme should not burden the rail
freight sector with additional costs and the funding and monitoring scheme should not be
cost-intensive itself.




                                               101
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________




                                                        102
                                                                  Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
____________________________________________________________________________________________



6.          CONCLUSIONS

Reducing railway noise is an important activity for the environment and citizens' health in
Europe and for the acceptance of the railways as a driving force for ecological and
economic development of Europe. Therefore, the acceptance of railways by citizens living
near railway lines, especially the main rail freight corridors, is vital.

In freight corridors, the number of trains will increase, and so noise for the citizens will
increase as well. Therefore, measures to reduce noise levels are essential to prevent health
risks and to have the acceptance of the neighbours. Without this acceptance, the risk
remains that the increase of capacity on main railway lines will be inhibited for a long
period of time, which will cause losses for the rail sector and for the total economy.

6.1.        Recommendations of measures

The recommendations cover the following three main aspects, considering the revival of the
rail sector as one of the most important measures for greening transportation and meeting
climate change targets:

        identifying effective technical measures;
        providing effective regulation and economic incentive schemes which do not distort
         competition with other transportation modes;
        funding the necessary investments.

Technical Measures

On the technical side, the noise reduction measures focus on two pillars: vehicle-related
measures and infrastructure-related measures.

There are several vehicle-related measures:

LL-blocks: One of the main sources of railway noise is freight wagons, particularly those
with cast-iron tread-brake blocks. The cast-iron blocks damage the running surface of the
wheels, making the surface rough and increasing the noise level at the wheel-rail interface.
High-speed trains and passenger trains use disc brakes rather than tread brakes; new
vehicles can be fitted with composite tread brake blocks (K-blocks), but these are not
suitable for retrofitting. There are still about 370,000 freight wagons with cast iron brakes
which are worth being retrofitted in Europe, and finding a cost-effective composite brake
block replacement (LL-blocks) for retrofitting is a priority for many railway operators. The
current estimate for retrofitting the 370,000 freight wagons is between 2.2 and 4.2 billion
Euros, but the impact of LL-blocks on wheelset maintenance costs is yet to be established.

Noise can also be a problem on railways with no freight traffic, so other vehicle-related
measures are important:

        Wheel absorbers are used to reduce rolling noise and can be effective against
         curve squeal. A range of wheel noise absorption technologies and products have
         been developed. The interaction of wheel noise absorbers and any track noise
         absorbers needs to be considered for optimum system performance.




                                            103
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

       A number of modified wheels have been developed in recent years but the
        accident with an ICE in Eschede in 1998 has left the industry wary of modified
        wheels for high-speed trains. However, these developments have had significant
        noise reduction potential and it is worth continuing research in this area.

       Vehicle-mounted top-of-rail friction modifiers (TOR FM) or flange lubrication
        systems can be used to combat curve squeal (as well as to reduce wear). A range of
        technologies and products are available. These are appropriate for closed systems
        where the vehicles are regularly monitored and maintained, such as local commuter
        networks; urban systems also have tighter curves and consequently more problems
        with curve squeal.

       Pantograph noise is a problem with high-speed electric trains, particularly since the
        pantograph is usually higher than noise barriers, if present. Aerodynamic designs
        like shielding or special materials like porous coating of pantographs can be used
        to reduce aerodynamic noise.

Additionally, new rolling stock, introduced since the year 2000, already have lower noise
emissions by 10 dB(A) in comparison with equipment produced in the 1960s and 1970s.
This shows the importance of replacing old rolling stock as soon as possible.

The effectiveness of vehicle-related measures has the best cost-benefit ratio. So
the introduction of composite brakes on freight wagons should be approached
with the highest priority. Other measures can be done complementarily.

A wide variety of infrastructure-related technologies have been developed to combat
noise and vibration. Mostly these fall into three categories:

       Noise barriers and bunds are usually large earth mounds creating an artificial cutting
        for the railway; these require several metres of land to the side of the railway which
        is not normally an option for existing railways or urban environments. Noise
        barriers, on the other hand, are suitable for existing railways and urban
        environments, but to be effective they need to be at least two metres high. Noise
        barriers have a poor visual impact, especially since they are a target for graffiti;
        they create problems for track access and incur a high on-going maintenance cost.
        Special acoustic enclosures are sometimes used to surround the railway above as
        well as at the sides.

       Track-side lubricators are a traditional method of reducing curve squeal (as well as
        reducing wear) and friction modifiers are used also to reduce brake squeal (in
        shunting yards, for example). Top-of-rail friction modifiers (TOR FM) are also
        effective at reducing corrugation (a major noise source) on the low rail in curves.

       Resilient track forms and technologies include: floating slab track, ballast mats,
        resilient base plates, rail pads of various stiffnesses, rail clips that clamp the web
        under the railhead, tuned rail dampers, and booted sleepers. Tunnels under urban
        environments, such as the Channel Tunnel Rail Link and Crossrail in London, are
        targets for such technologies. (As noted earlier, the interaction of wheel noise
        absorbers and track noise absorbers needs to be considered for optimum system
        performance.)




                                                        104
                                                                               Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
 ____________________________________________________________________________________________

Additional considerations:

         Wheels and rails need to be monitored so that (a) out-of-round wheels (and
          especially wheels with flats) can be turned, and (b) corrugated rails can be ground.
          Out-of-round wheels and corrugated rails are a source of increased rail noise, as
          well as a cause of increased wheel-rail forces and consequent damage.

         Track geometry and substructure should be designed and maintained to avoid
          sudden changes in direction or stiffness, both of which increase noise emission,
          wheel-rail forces and consequent damage.

         Rail joints should be avoided (insulated rail joints are an exception) and
          continuously welded rail used instead; expansion joints should be scarfed.

Large infrastructure-related investments have already been made in several countries,
including Sweden, Denmark, The Netherlands, Germany, Poland, Czech Republic, France,
Switzerland, Austria, Italy and Portugal. These measures are necessary, particularly in
densely populated areas. Noise-reducing infrastructure-related measures are usually
introduced with new construction or major redevelopment of railway links according to new
standards where these measures are a requirement, whereas for the existing infrastructure
there is no obligation to lower noise.

Intelligent combinations of vehicle- and infrastructure-related measures help to bring rail
noise down to long-term sustainability levels for a reasonable cost. The analyses of this
study show that infrastructure-related measures can be reduced if effective vehicle-related
measures are also taken. Therefore, a fast retrofit of the existing freight wagon fleet is the
most urgent action to be taken.

Regulation and economic incentive schemes

International examples such as the Japanese top-runner scheme 37 underline that a sound
regulation scheme is the heart of any successful pollution reduction strategy. This holds
in particular for noise, because an effective reduction of noise through vehicle-related
measures presupposes that almost all internationally operating rail wagons are equipped
with low-noise technology.

The TSI Noise is an appropriate basis for noise regulation in the medium and long term.
Presently, the standards for noise emissions are valid for new or modified vehicles only. In
the medium and long-term view the TSI can become compulsory for all vehicles. The time
schedule for validation of the noise levels for all vehicles should be long enough to allow for
an adjustment of technology without major additional investment costs. We propose a time
period of 10–12 years, which covers 1–2 revision cycles and is half of the normal life time
of rolling stock (a quarter for freight wagons). The noise levels in TSI Noise should also be
lowered from time to time according to technical development.

Economic incentive schemes consist of charging and bonus/penalty systems. Rail track
charging is an important element of an incentive-compatible penetration strategy for low-
noise rail technology. The principles and request for introducing noise emissions into the
track access charging system are formulated in the Recast of the First Railway Package
(proposed in 2010) and can be implemented by the Member States as the revision of

37
     This scheme aims at reducing energy consumption and climate impact by dynamic setting of emission targets
     on the basis of current best practice (“top runners’ performance”).



                                                     105
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

Directive 2006/38/EC (Eurovignette) has been adopted on 27 September 2011 (see [Dir.
2011/76/EU]) as the existing Directive 2001//14/EC already allows NDTAC if the same is
allowed for other transportation means. The Directive 2011/76/EU allows for mark-ups
reflecting environmental costs (including noise) for HGVs on motorways and highways. This
means that in the future a balance can be found between road and rail pricing for noise
emissions which does not disturb competition between the transport modes. It is important
to take into consideration that a substantial noise reduction requires that a large proportion
of rail cars are equipped with modern technology. This suggests that lower tariffs should be
offered only to trains which consist entirely of noise-reduced cars. Such a system can be
implemented without installing further electronic devices in the rail cars, if an effective
reporting system is established. The example of the proposed German rail track charging
and retrofit-funding scheme shows that this requirement can be fulfilled. This underlines
that the transaction cost of a noise-differentiated charging system can be held low, which is
an important argument, because many objections against the introduction of such systems
are based on the presumed high transaction costs.

Further alternative or complementary incentives can be introduced through bonus/penalty
systems. In particular, in the transitory phase, bonus payments can motivate the rail car
operators to switch to new technology as early as possible. The railway companies will call
for wide use of this instrument if the state pays for the bonus. From the viewpoint of
setting incentives right, at least a part of financial contributions should be covered by the
rail car owners/operators.

Funding schemes

After assessing the best combinations of technical and economic measures, the financial
implications have to be considered and the impacts on stakeholders have to be analysed. In
our view, the adjustment of braking systems is the most urgent and promising strategy,
complemented by infrastructure-related measures at noise hot-spots. There are different
funding sources, which have to be developed for these measures.

Infrastructure-related measures are financed by the state and/or the rail infrastructure
managers. In the latter case, the additional costs for the infrastructure managers are
passed on to the railway undertakings through the rail track charges. This implies that the
state will have to cover a substantial part of the infrastructure-related costs if the
competitive balance between road and rail is not to be affected. 38

Vehicle-related measures have to be financed by the car owners/operators in the long
term. In the short and medium term, subsidies by the state or the European Union, for
instance bonus payments for retrofitting, can accelerate the change of technology. Member
States will have to decide on the magnitudes of bonus payments and the method of
refinancing. In this context it is crucially important that the territoriality principle will be
fully applied with the rail track charging system, which means that retrofitted rail cars get a
lower tariff regardless of which country they have been licensed in and where the
owner/operator is located.

The vehicle-related funding scheme should be a limited programme for some years (e.g.,
10 years) and should focus on retrofitting existing vehicles. Existing low-noise vehicles can
also be included if the cost of the noise-reduction measure can be verified (former


38
     Note that the mark-ups for noise, as suggested by the Commission, are rather low for HGVs on motorways and
     freeways and the Member States are not obliged to implement them.



                                                        106
                                                                  Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
____________________________________________________________________________________________

retrofitting without funding of the measure, price differences between normal and low noise
vehicle of the same type).

Funding and regulation schemes should be harmonised in the EU to minimise distortions of
competition as many freight transport companies are operating internationally, carrying a
high share of freight rail cars cross-border. “Noise leakages” should be avoided, which
could occur if noisy freight cars, registered in a “low noise cost” country, are operating in
“high noise cost” countries. Therefore a common regulation scheme is necessary,
accompanied by a widely harmonised system of pricing and funding. Variations from this
general rule could only be accepted to the positive side, i.e., to motivate top runners to
start early with appropriate actions. In this context, the trade-off between low noise policy
and competition policy could be more balanced in favour of low noise in the medium-term.
The reason is that rail freight as a whole may lose market share in the medium term if the
noise problems cannot be solved appropriately, and the resistance of the affected
population might impede full capacity utilisation and the removal of capacity bottlenecks.



6.2.       Recommendations for parliamentarian activities

To support and accelerate the introduction of noise reduction measures, the European
Parliament could – in the second reading of the Recast of First Railway Package – only
accept the Recast if the following issues are fulfilled:

      Including an obligation for a harmonisation of charging of railway noise in all
       Member States within a reasonable short time period.

      Integrate the dependence of the introduction of Noise Depending Track Access
       Charges (NDTAC) from the same introduction in road transport.

      Including an obligation to create “Noise Depending Track Access Charges (NDTAC)”
       for the introduction and use of noise reducing measures in each Member State
       according to the levels in TSI Noise (COMM. DEC. 2011/229/EU).

          o   The NDTAC could include funding / covering of higher operational costs if the
              noise reduction measure causes extra costs.
          o   The NDTAC could also include a significant special bonus for trains which are
              completely equipped with noise reduction measures (in addition to funding of
              individual equipment of single rolling stock units).

      Including an obligation for the infrastructure managers to maintain the
       infrastructure in a way to avoid noise caused by poor infrastructure conditions (rail
       roughness).

Additional to this, the European Parliament could request the European Commission:

      Creates an European Funding Scheme for vehicle-related noise-reduction measures,
       and to motivate Member States to introduce noise-reduction funding for
       internationally operating rolling stock.

      Modifies the latest TSI Noise, introduced with Commission Decision (2011/229/EC)
       of 4 April 2011, so that the maximum noise levels are also obligatory for existing
       rolling stock about 10–12 years after introduction of the modification of TSI Noise.


                                            107
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

       Lowers the maximum noise levels introduced by TSI Noise in a staged process for
        the long-term future, with adjusted obligations for new and existing rolling stock
        (top runner scheme).

To harmonise the competitiveness between rail and road sectors, the European Parliament
could request the European Commission:

       Prepares a Directive for a network-wide regulation and charging of lorry noise, at
        least for the TEN-T roads (comprehensive network) – eventually embedded in a
        concept of full internalisation of external costs under explicit consideration of noise-
        reduction targets, extending the optional noise-related motorway charging as in
        Directive 2011/76/EU.

To lower noise at hot spots which cannot be solved by the introduction of vehicle-related
measures, the European Parliament could:

       Observe the introduction and fulfilment of noise action plans concerning hot spots in
        rail and road sectors.

       Include noise-reduction measures at noise hot spots of the TEN-T (comprehensive
        network including existing links and nodes) into the EU funding facilities (in
        particular the Connecting Europe Facility).




                                                        108
                                                                     Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
    ____________________________________________________________________________________________



REFERENCES

     16. BImSchV 2006, Sixteenth regulation implementing the Federal Pollution Control Act
      (Traffic Noise Ordinance - 16 BImSchV);Germany (Original language: Sechzehnte
      Verordnung       zur    Durchführung      des     Bundes-Immissionsschutzgesetzes
      (Verkehrslärmschutzverordnung - 16. BImSchV); Deutschland) (http://www.gesetze-
      im-internet.de/bimschv_16/BJNR010360990.html last visit January 3rd 2012).

     AEA et al. 2004, AEA Technology team, UIC, UIP, UIRR CER and UNIFE; Status and
      options for the reduction of noise emission from the existing European rail freight
      wagon fleet; January 10th 2004.

     ALPNAP 2007-1, Heimann D., de Franceschi M., Emeis S., Lercher P., Seibert P. (Eds.),
      2007: Living near the transit route - air pollution, noise and health in the Alps. ALPNAP
      brochure. Università degli Studi di Trento, Dipartimento di Ingegneria Civile e
      Ambientale, Trento, Italy, 20 pp.

     ALPNAP 2007-2, Heimann D., de Franceschi M., Emeis S., Lercher P., Seibert P. (Eds.),
      2007: Air Pollution, Traffic Noise and Related Health Effects in the Alpine Space − A
      Guide for Authorities and Consulters; ALPNAP comprehensive report; Università degli
      Studi di Trento, Dipartimento di Ingegneria Civile e Ambientale, Trento, Italy, 335 pp.

     Blidberg_2011,Karin Blidberg, Railway noise issues in Sweden, Presentation held on 7th
      Annual Workshop on Railway Noise, Paris November 8-9, 2011.

     Blumensaadt_2011, Jens Erik Blumensaadt Jensen, Current noise mitigation, Railway
      noise issues in Denmark, Presentation held on 7th Annual Workshop on Railway Noise,
      Paris November 8-9, 2011.

     BS 8233:1999, British Standard: Sound insulation and noise reduction for buildings; Ð
      Code of practice; ISBN 0 580 33009; published under the authority of the Standards
      Committee and comes into effect on 15 August 1999.

     Bukovnik 2010, Monika Bukovnik (psiA Consult GmbH): Ausgewählte Kapitel zur
      Eisenbahnlärmbekämpfung (selected aspects concerning rail noise abatement),
      Presentation at University of Natural Ressources and Life Sciences; Vienna 2010
      (http://www.rali.boku.ac.at/fileadmin/_/H85/H856/_temp_/Bahn2_WS10.pdf (last visit
      July 14th 2011)).

     Bundes-LärmV 2006, Regulation of the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry,
      Environment and Water Management on the methods and technical specifications for
      the collection of ambient noise (the Federal Environmental Noise Regulations - Federal
      LärmV) Federal Law Gazette II No. 144/2006; April 5th 2006; Austria (Original
      language: Verordnung des Bundesministers für Land- und Forstwirtschaft, Umwelt und
      Wasserwirtschaft über die Methoden und tech-nischen Spezifikationen für die Erhebung
      des Umgebungslärms (Bundes-Umgebungslärmschutzverordnung – Bundes-LärmV) StF:
      BGBl. II Nr. 144/2006; 5. April 2006;Österreich).

     BVU INTRAPLAN 2008, BVU consultant for Transport + Umwelt GmbH Intraplan Consult
      GmbH Dr. Kristina Birn Dipl.-Ing. Hans-Ulrich Mann: Forecast of transport demand and
      the numbers of trains on the Upper Rhine route 2025, on behalf of the Government



                                               109
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

    Council of Freiburg; January 2008 (Original language: BVU Beratergruppe Verkehr +
    Umwelt GmbH Intraplan Consult GmbH Dr. Kristina Birn Dipl.-Ing. Hans-Ulrich Mann:
    Prognose der Verkehrsnachfrage und der Zugzahlen auf der Oberrhein-strecke 2025; im
    Auftrag des Regierungspräsidiums Freiburg; Januar 2008).

   CE Delft 2011, Arno Schroten; Huib van Essen: External Cost Calculator - Methodology
    report Delft; CE Delft, September 2011.

   CE Delft et al. 2011, Huib van Essen, Arno Schroten, Matthijs Otten (CE Delft), Daniel
    Suter, Christoph Schreyer, R Arno Schroten; Remo Zandonella, Markus Mainach
    (INFRAS), Claus Doll (Fraunhofer-ISI): External Costs of Transport in Europe - Study to
    the International Union of Railways (UIC); Delft, October 2011.

   CER UIC 2007, CER and UIC: A 2007 report on the state of the art - Noise Reduction in
    Rail Freight; Authors: Jakob Oertli, SBB (jakob.oertli@sbb.ch), Peter Hübner, UIC
    (peter.huebner@bluewin.ch); Version: March, 2008.

   Com(2010) 475, Proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council
    establishing a single European railway area (Recast), introduced by the European
    Commission on September 17th 2010) (COM(2010) 475).

   Com 2002/735/C, COMMISSION DECISION of 30 May 2002 concerning the technical
    specification for interoperability relating to the rolling stock subsystem of the trans-
    European high-speed rail system referred to in Article 6(1) of Directive 96/48/EC
    (notified under document number C(2002) 1952) (2002/735/EC).

   DB 2010, German railway: Position Paper, - Efficient noise protection - retrofitting of
    freight wagons conveying; German Railways - Transport Policy; Berlin, September 2010
    (Original language: Deutsche Bahn: Positionspapier - Effizienter Lärmschutz –
    Umrüstung von Güterwagen Fördern; Deutsche Bahn AG – Verkehrspolitik; Berlin,
    September 2010).

   DEFRA 2010, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, Noise action plans:
    web-site where all noise action plans of the UK status March 15th, 2010 are provided;
    see    http://www.defra.gov.uk/environment/quality/noise/environmental-noise/action-
    plans/ (last visit January 3rd 2012).

   Dir. 96/48/EC, Council Directive 96/48/EC of 23 July 1996 on the interoperability of the
    trans-European high-speed rail system.

   Dir. 2001/14/EC, Directive 2001/14/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council
    of 26 February 2001 on the allocation of railway infrastructure capacity and the levying
    of charges for the use of railway infrastructure and safety certification.

   Dir. 2002/49/EC, Directive 2002/49/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council
    of 25 June 2002 relating to the assessment and management of environmental noise.

   Dir. 2008/57/EC, Directive 2008/57/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council
    of 17 June 2008 on the interoperability of the rail system within the Community.

   Dir. 2011/76/EU, Directive 2011/76/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council
    of 27 September 2011, amending Directive 1999/62/EC on the charging of heavy goods
    vehicles for the use of certain infrastructures, as published OJEU L 269 on 14.10.11.




                                                        110
                                                                     Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
    ____________________________________________________________________________________________

     DEFRA 2010, Noise Action Plan Major Railways (outside first round agglomerations).
      Environmental Noise (England) Regulations 2006, as amended. Department for
      Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA), Crown Copyright, 16th March 2010,
      London.

     Dublin City 2008, Dublin Agglomeration Action Plan Relating to the Assessment &
      Management of Environmental Noise. Doublin City Baile Atha Cliath, Doublin.

     Dörsch 2009, Dr. Stefan Dörsch: State of the Art - UIC-Project, Technology of
      Composite Brake Blocks; Paris, 10.11.2009; presentation in Paris November, 10th
      2009.

     EC 2003, Working Group Railway Noise of the European Commission: Position Paper on
      the European strategies and priorities for railway noise abatement Luxemburg,
      Publications Office, 2003.

     EC 2011, REPORT FROM THE COMMISSION TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE
      COUNCIL on the implementation of the directive on environmental noise in accordance
      with Article 11 of Directive 2002/49/EC from June, 1st 2011.

     EEA 2/2010, European Environment Agency: EEA report No. 2/2010: Towards a
      resource-efficient transport system; Copenhagen, 2010; Luxembourg: Office for Official
      Publications of the European Union, 2010.

     EEA 11/2010, European Environment Agency: EEA Technical report No 11/2010: Good
      practice guide on noise exposure and potential health effects; Copenhagen, 2010;
      Luxembourg: Office for Official Publications of the European Union, 2010.

     EEA 7/2011, European Environment Agency: EEA Report 7/2011: Laying the
      foundations for greener transport, TERM 2011: transport indicators tracking progress
      towards environmental targets in Europe.

     EIONET 2011, EEA Reporting Obligations Database (ROD). European Environment
      Agency (EEA), Copenhagen (URL: rod.eionet.europa.eu).

     ELPA, ELPA: Rail Noise and Wear - Out Reduction Technology; http://www.railway-
      technology.com/contractors/noise/elpa/; last visit: January, 3rd 2012.
     EP 2011, European Parliament legislative resolution of 16 November 2011 on the
      proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a
      single European railway area (recast) (COM(2010)0475 – C7-0268/2010 –
      2010/0253(COD)) see
      http://www.europarl.europa.eu/sides/getDoc.do?type=TA&reference=P7-TA-2011-
      0503&language=EN (last visit: January 5th 2011).

     ETC 2010, European Topic Centre on Land Use and Spatial Information: Population
      exposure        to    noise    from     different   sources   in    Europe;  File
      “END_DF4_Results_101005_ETCLUSI_inclBG&SW.xls”             to    download     via
      “http://eea.eionet.europa.eu/Public/irc/eionet-
      circle/etcte/library?l=/2009_subvention/113noise/data&vm=detailed&sb=Title”; last
      visit January, 3rd 2012.




                                               111
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

   EUROSABOT          2011,       Web-site       of        the       EUROSABOT-Project:
    http://ec.europa.eu/research/growth/gcc/projects/in-action-rail.html; last visit January,
    3rd 2012.

   EuroTrain, Web-site of the EuroTrain-Project: http://europetrain.uic.org/; last visit:
    January, 3rd 2012

   Freiburg 2009, City of Freiburg: Noise action plan according to 47d of Federal Pollution
    Control Act; Freiburg, December 2009) (Original Language: Stadt Freiburg i. Br.:
    Lärmaktionsplan gemäß § 47d Bundes-Immissionsschutzgesetz; Freiburg, Dezember
    2009.

   Gilliam 2008, Dietmar Gilliam, AAE Ahaus-Alstätter railway: Practice experiences with
    K-Blocks- presentation on VAP Autumn Meeting November 2008 (Original language:
    Dietmar Gilliam, AAE Ahaus-Alstätter Eisenbahn: „Praktische Erfahrungen mit K-Sohlen“
    - Präsentation auf der VAP-Herbsttagung November 2008).

   Hemsworth 2006, Brian Hemsworth: Noise Reduction at Source - EU Funded Projects;
    presentation held on conference RailNoise 2006; Pisa, 9-10 November 2006.

   Hemsworth 2008, Hemsworth, Brian (2008): Environmental                  Noise   Directive,
    Development of Action Plans for Railways, UIC April 2008.

   Hiensch et. al 2007, Martin Hiensch, Babette Dirks, Jaap Horst and Jakko van der Stelt;
    Rail head optimisation to reach a sustainable solution preventing Railway Squeal Noise -
    presentation at INTER-NOISE 2007; Istanbul, Turkey, 28-31 AUGUST 2007.

   ISO 1996-2:1987, International Norm: Acoustics - Description and measurement of
    environmental noise - Part 2: Acquisition of data pertinent to land use.

   Justice and Environment 2009a, Make some Noise. Shadow Report on the
    Implementation of the Environmental Noise in Austria, Czech Republic, Estonia,
    Hungary, Slovakia and Slovenia. Justice and Environment, European Network of
    Environmental Law Organisations. LIFE+ programme of the European Commission.
    Dvorakova, 2009.

   Justice and Environment 2009b, Make some Noise. Shadow Report on the
    Implementation of the Environmental Noise Directive – Estonia. Justice and
    Environment, European Network of Environmental Law Organisations. LIFE+
    programme of the European Commission. Dvorakova, 2009.

   KCW et al. 2009, KWC, Steer Davies Gleave, TU Berlin (2009): Analyses of
    preconditions for the implementation and harmonisation of noise-differentiated track
    access charges - final report; submitted to European Commission, TREN/E2/287-2008.

   KCW 2011, KCW GmbH: Study on measuring transaction costs of various incentive
    schemes for the retrofitting of the existing fleet of freight cars-composite brake blocks;
    Berlin, 2011 (Original language: KCW GmbH:, Studie zur Ermittlung von
    Transaktionskosten verschiedener Anreizmodelle für die Umrüstung der Güterwagen-
    Bestandsflotte auf Verbundstoff-Bremssohlen; Berlin, 2011).

   King et al. 2009, Implementation of the EU Environmental Noise Directive: Lessons
    from the first phase of strategic noise mapping and action planning in Ireland. E. A.
    King, E. Murphy, H.J. Rice, Trinity College Dublin and University College Dublin.



                                                        112
                                                                     Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
    ____________________________________________________________________________________________

     Kummer et al. 2006, Sebastian Kummer, Philipp Nagl, Jan-Philipp Schlaak: The
      efficiency of rail infrastructure construction projects on the example of the Brenner base
      tunnel; Vienna University of Economics and Business, Institute for Supply chain
      Management 2006 (Original language: Sebastian Kummer, Philipp Nagl, Jan-Philipp
      Schlaak, Zur Effizienz von Schieneninfrastrukturbau-Vorhaben am Beispiel des Brenner-
      Basistunnels - Forschungsbericht 1/2006; Wirtschaftsuniversität Wien. Institut für
      Transportwirtschaft und Logistik 2006).

     Lercher et al. 2007, Heimann D., de Franceschi M., Emeis S., Lercher P., Seibert P.
      (Eds.), 2007: Living near the transit route—air pollution, noise and health in the Alps. -
      ALPNAP brochure; Università degli Studi di Trento, Dipartimento di Ingegneria Civile e
      Ambientale, Trento, Italy, 20 ppt.

     Licitra 2006, Gaetano Licitra; Railway noise mitigation at source: an overview of
      possible solutions; presentation held on conference RailNoise 2006; Pisa, 9-10
      November 2006.

     Madshus and Kaynia 2000, C. Madshus, M. Kaynia: High-speed railway lines on soft
      ground: dynamic behaviour at critical train speed; Journal of Sound and Vibration
      (2000) 231(3), 689}701.

     Mather 2006, Dr. Matthias Mather, Rail Environmental Center, Noise sources in
      transport and their significance: Rail transport, Cologne May, 16th 2006
      (http://www.fv-leiserverkehr.de/pdf-dokumenten/Seminar_Verkehrslaerm/5-Mather.pdf
      (last visit: January 3rd 2012) (Original language: Dr. Matthias Mather, Bahn Umwelt
      Zentrum, „Geräuschquellen im Verkehr und ihre Bedeutung: Schienenverkehr“ Köln 16.
      Mai 2006).

     Müller et al. 2003, Bernhard Müller, Erwin Jansen, Fred de Beer (2003): UIC curve
      squeal     project    wp    3     –     Tool     Box      of     existing measures
      (http://www.uic.org/IMG/pdf/annex_1.3.pdf; last visit: January 3rd 2012).

     NOISE 2011, Noise Observation and Information Service for Europe – NOISE; Web-site
      where    Noise    maps     according   to    Directive    2002/49/EC     are provided;
      http://noise.eionet.europa.eu/index.html (last visit January, 3rd 2012).

     ÖBB - BMVIT 2008, Environmental Noise Action Plan, Austria, 2008, Part B11 - railroad
      tracks in the jurisdiction of the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and
      Technology (Original language: Umgebungslärm-Aktionsplan Österreich 2008, Teil B11 -
      Schienenstrecken, im Zuständigkeitsbereich der Bundesministerin für Verkehr,
      Innovation und Technologie).

     Offenburg 2009, City of Offenburg: Noise reduction planning – Noise action plan 2009;
      Offenburg   2009 (Original language: Stadt Offenburg: Lärmminderungsplanung –
      Lärmaktionsplan 2009, Offenburg 2009).

     Pokolainen 2011, Erkki Poikolainen, Noise Mapping - Low height barrier - Finnish
      experiences; Presentation held on 7th Annual Workshop on Railway Noise, Paris
      November 8-9, 2011.

     PPG 24 2006, Department for Communities and Local Government: Planning Policy
      Guidance 24: Planning and Noise; Eland House, Bressenden Place, London SW1E 5DU,
      5th May 2006.




                                               113
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

   PWC 2007, PWC: Impact assessment study on rail noise abatement measures
    addressing the existing fleets - Final Report prepared on behalf of the European
    Commission Directorate General Energy and Transport; Reference Tren/A1/46-2005;
    December 10, 2007.

   Q-City 2009, Project Quiet City Transport (Q-City) DELIVERABLE D5.3; Brussels – Quiet
    tram vehicles on quiet tracks Performance report of applied squeal measures; Brussels,
    December 2009.

   Rapacz 2011, Piotr Rapacz, EU Rail Noise Policy – perspective of DG MOVE, Presentation
    held on 7th Annual Workshop on Railway Noise, Paris November 8-9, 2011.

   ReMR 1996, Ministry Housing, Spatial Planning and the Environment: Calculation and
    Measurement       Regulations    Rail    Traffic   ‘96;     November    27,     2001
    (http://www.stillerverkeer.nl/rmv/RMVR/RMVR96.pdf; last visit January, 3rd 2012)
    (Original language: Ministerie Volkshuisvesting Ruimtelijke Ordening en Milieubeheer:
    Reken-en Meetvoorschrift Railverkeerslawaai ‘96; 27 november 2001).

   Saabel 2011, Irmhild Saabel, WASCOSA AG: Liberalisation, Noise and Safety– how
    much costs are caused by ECM, TSI Noise and Viareggio; Presentation on Forum
    Güterwagen May, 19th 2011 (Original language: Irmhild Saabel, WASCOSA AG:
    Liberalisierung, Lärm und Sicherheit – was kosten ECM, TSI Noise und Viareggio;
    Präsentation auf dem Forum Güterwagen; 19. Mai 2011).

   SBB       2011,     Swiss     Federal     railway:   Brochure    Silence     please,
    (http://www.sbb.ch/content/sbb/de/desktop/sbb-konzern/die-sbb-bewegt-die-
    schweiz/der-umwelt
    verpflichtet/laerm/_jcr_content/relatedPar/contextmenu_1/downloadList/download_1.s
    pooler.download.pdf; last visit:January, 3rd 2012) Original language: Schweizer
    Bundesbahn: – Broschüre Ruhe bitte!.

   SBB Lärmschutz, www.laerm-sbb.ch/ ; web-site from Swiss Federal Railway (SBB)
    containing public information about content and current status of noise protection
    program and about funding possibilities for noise reduction measures for private
    persons.

   Schreckenberg et al. 2011, Dirk Schreckenberg, Wolfgang Eberle, Gunther Möller:
    Survey of sleep due to harassment and rail traffic noise in the Middle Rhine Valley and
    Rheingau / Rheinhessen; Noise abatement Bd. 6 /2011) No. 3; Mai 2011Original
    language: Dirk Schreckenberg, Wolfgang Eberle, Gunther Möller: Befragung zur
    Belästigung und zu Schlafstörungen durch Schienenverkehrslärm im Mittelrheintal und
    Rheingau/Rheinhessen, Lärmbekämpfung Bd. 6 (2011) Nr. 3; Mai 2011.

   Sierra 2011, Marta Ruiz Sierra, Noise Control Measures in Spanish Planning and
    Management, Presentation held on 7th Annual Workshop on Railway Noise, Paris
    November 8-9, 2011.

   SUEKI et al. 2009, Takeshi Sueki, Mitsuru Ikeda, Takehisa Takaishi: Aerodynamik Noise
    Reduction using porous Material and their Application to High-speed Pantopraphs; QR of
    RTRI, Vol 50, No. 1, February 2009.

   Talotte 2000, C. Talotte (SNCF): “Aerodynamic noise: A critical survey”; Journal of
    Sound and Vibration (2000) 231(3).




                                                        114
                                                                      Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
    ____________________________________________________________________________________________

     Talotte et al. 2003, C. Talotte, P.-E. Gautier, D.J. Thompson, C. Hanson: Identification,
      modelling and reduction potential of railway noise sources: a critical survey; Journal of
      Sound and Vibration 267 (2003) 447–468.

     Thameslink 2004 Temple Environmental Consultants Ltd: Noise and Vibration
      Specialist Report; prepared for Network Rail Infrastructure Ltd, June 2004. [Thameslink
      2005 Inquiry: CD219].

     Thameslink 2005, Temple Environmental Consultants Ltd: Blackfriars Noise Assessment
      Report; prepared for Network Rail [Thameslink 2005 Inquiry: CD220].

     Thompson 2008-1, David Thompson: Noise control through rail grinding; Presentation
      at IPG-Rail Final Seminar; Doorn, The Netherlands, December 2008.

     Thompson 2008-2, David Thompson: Rail dampers; Presentation at IPG-Rail Final
      Seminar; Doorn, The Netherlands, December 2008.

     Thompson and Gautier 2006, D J Thompson (University of Southampton) and P-E
      Gautier (SNCF): Review of research into wheel/rail rolling noise reduction; JRRT79
      IMechE 2006JRRT79 IMechE 2006.

     Transalpine, www.transalpine.com; Web-side of the committee transalpine for planning
      the railway corridor between Turin and Lyon (last visit February 15th 2012).

     TSI Noise 2006, COMMISSION DECISION of 23 December 2005 concerning the
      technical specification for interoperability relating to the subsystem ‘rolling stock —
      noise’ of the trans-European conventional rail system (notified under document number
      C(2005) 5666).

     TSI Noise 2011, COMM. DEC. (2011/229/EC) of 4 April 2011 concerning the technical
      specifications of interoperability relating to the subsystem ‘rolling stock – noise’ of the
      trans-European conventional rail system.

     UIRR 2010, International Union of combined; Road-Rail transport companies: UIRR
      Annual Report 2010; Rue Montoyer 31/box 11, B-1000 Brussels, Brussels 2010.

     UIC et al. 2007, UIC, CER, UIRR, ERFA, EIM and UIP: Position paper on CONSULTATION
      DOCUMENT OF THE COMMISSION'S SERVICES - Rail noise abatement measures
      addressing the existing fleet; July, 27th 2007.

     [UIC 2008], Brian Hemsworth - Noise Consultant LLP: Environmental Noise Directive
      Development of Action Plans for Railways; prepared for International Union of Railways
      (UIC).

     UIC 2010, International Union of Railways (UIC): Railway Noise in Europe – A 2010
      report on the state of the art; ISBN: 978 2 7461 1880 5; Paris, September 2010.

     UIC 2011, Oertli, Jakob (2011): Railway Freight Noise Reduction, 6th annual workshop:
      bringing things together, in UIC Focus, No 6 April 2011.

     van den Dool 2007, ir. Ph.(Philip) H. van den Dool: Rail Dampers, rail infrastructure
      gets quiet; presentation at INTER-NOISE Istanbul, Turkey, AUGUST, 31st 2007.




                                               115
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

   VBUSch 2006, Federal Ministry for the Environment, Nature Conservation and Nuclear
    Safety and Federal Ministry of Transport, Building and Urban Development Preliminary
    calculation method for the environmental noise at railways) – VBUSch; published May,
    10th 2006 (Original language: Bundesministerium für Umwelt, Naturschutz und
    Reaktorsicherheit und Bundesminsterium für Verkehr, Bau und Stadtentwicklung;
    “Vorläufige Berechnungsmethode für den Umgebungslärm an Schienenwegen;
    Veröffentlich im Bundesanzeiger 22. Mai 2006).

   VDV 2011, Association of German Transport Companies: Rail Noise: provide incentives
    for retrofitting of freight wagons; Press Release Berlin, May 20, 2011, (Original
    language: Verband Deutscher Verkehrsunternehmen: „Schienenlärm: Anreize zur
    Umrüstung von Güterwagen setzen“; Presseinformation Berlin, 20.Mai 2011).

   VDV VPI 2011, Verband Deutscher Verkehrsunternehmen und Vereinigung der
    Privatgüterwageninteressierten: Lärmabhängiges Trassenpreissystem des Bundes ist
    ungerecht; Pressemitteilung Nummer 15, Köln, 05.07.2011 Association of German
    Transport Companies and Association of private freight waggon owners: Noise-
    dependent pricing system is unfair press release No. 15, Cologne, 05.07.2011.

   Wang et al. 2000, A. Wang, S. J. Cox, D. Gosling, J. E. W. Prudhoe: Railway bridge
    noise control with resilient baseplates; Journal of Sound and Vibration (2000) 231(3),
    907}911.

   WHO 2009, World Health Organization: Night noise guidelines for Europe; WHO
    Regional Office for Europe Scherfigsvej 8, DK-2100 Copenhagen Ø, Denmark ; ISBN
    978 92 890 4173 7;
    http://www.euro.who.int/__data/assets/pdf_file/0017/43316/E92845.pdf, last  visit
    January, 3rd 2012).

   WHO JRC 2011, WHO European Centre for Environment and Health, Bonn Office, WHO
    Regional Office: Burden of disease from environmental noise Quantification of healthy
    life   years     lost   in    Europe;    ISBN:     978    92    890       0229     5;
    http://www.euro.who.int/__data/assets/pdf_file/0008/136466/e94888.pdf, last visit:
    January 3rd 2012.

   ZEUS Möhler 2005, ZEUS GmbH and Möhler+Partner; Daytime-related harassment by
    road    and    rail   traffic  noise    -   method      and    empirical results;
    www.verkehrslaermwirkung.de/05UFS2206.pdf (last visit January, 3rd 2012 (Original
    language: ZEUS GmbH and Möhler+Partner: Tageszeitsbezogene Belästigung durch
    Straßen- und Schienenverkehrslärm - Methode und empirische Ergebnisse).

   ZEUS Möhler 2010, ZEUS GmbH, Centre for Applied Psychology, Environmental and
    Social Research - Hagen ; Möhler + Partner, consulting engineers for sound insulation
    and building physics – Munich: Noise bonus for railways?; study on behalf of Federal
    Environment Agency; published as Texts 23/2010, ISSN 1862-4804, Postfach 14 06,
    06813 Dessau Original language: ZEUS GmbH, Zentrum für angewandte Psychologie,
    Umwelt- und Sozialforschung - Hagen; Möhler + Partner, Beratende Ingenieure für
    Schallschutz und Bauphysik - München: Lärmbonus bei der Bahn?, Ist die
    Besserstellung der Bahn imVergleich zu anderen Verkehrsträgern noch gerechtfertigt?,
    Studie im Auftrag des Umweltbundesamtes; erschienen als Texte 23/2010; ISSN 1862-
    4804; Herausgeber: Umweltbundesamt, Postfach 14 06, 06813 Dessau-Roßlau.




                                                        116
                                                                                                   Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
____________________________________________________________________________________________



ANNEX I:                      ENVIRONMENTAL NOISE EMISSIONS IN
                              MEMBER STATES AND AGGLOMERATIONS

                                                  Rail noise outside agglomerations

                             Nr of people exposed to different noise                  Nr of people exposed to different noise
                                     bands (Lden) [dB(A)]                                     bands (Lnight) [dB(A)]

Country          km          55-59        60-64       65-69     70-74      >75        50-55        55-59       60-64     65-69      >70
Austria                      217,300      121,700      47,900    16,900     7,500     194,200       98,900      36,700    13,300     5,600
Belgium                       33,300       19,700      16,100    13,400     3,900      25,700       17,200      15,000     7,500     1,800
Czech Republic        270     13,300        2,600       1,100      300           0      6,700        2,000        800       200           0
Denmark           1,776       20,200        5,500       1,900     1,200      100       12,100        3,300       1,600      800           0
Finland                       15,100        5,900       2,300      200           0      8,800        4,000        800         0           0
France            1,435      624,200      420,000 250,300       139,500   105,200     519,600      348,400     207,100   112,900    70,000
Germany          17,282     1,588,700     693,400     218,200    87,900    58,000    1,392,500     547,600     175,700    73,100    44,800
Hungary                32            0            0        0          0          0            0            0        0         0           0
Ireland                58            0            0        0          0          0            0            0        0         0           0
Italy                 591     89,900       61,900      37,300    33,000    24,800      87,000       67,300      35,600    31,300    25,400
Luxembourg             20        100          100          0          0          0        100              0        0         0           0
Norway                         4,500        2,600       2,000      700       900        3,600        2,100       1,300      500       600
Poland                 16        900          200        100          0          0        700          100        100         0           0
Portugal              115     21,200       11,600       8,000     7,200     4,400      14,900        9,400       7,500     5,500     1,100
Romania                        3,900        1,000          0          0          0      5,500        3,400        700         0           0
Slovenia               68      5,600        2,600       1,100      400       300        4,700        2,400       1,000      400       300
Spain                 742     45,700       23,500      11,000     1,600          0     34,900       19,300       6,000      500           0
Sweden                        58,100       33,800      12,300     4,800     1,700      43,900       21,200       7,700     2,500     1,200
Switzerland                   39,500       23,600      12,500     8,800     3,800      30,400       16,700      10,700     6,100     2,400
United
Kingdom                       80,800       50,300      32,500    14,100     2,100      56,400       36,400      18,500     3,800      100
Total general               2,862,300    1,480,000    654,600   330,000   212,700    2,441,700    1,199,700    526,800   258,400   153,300
Total EU 27                 2,818,300    1,453,800    640,100   320,500   208,000    2,407,700    1,180,900    514,800   251,800   150,300




                                                                117
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________



                                                         Rail noise in agglomerations

                             Nr of people exposed to different noise                 Nr of people exposed to different noise bands
                                          bands (Lden)                                                 (Lnight)
               Inhabi-
  Country       tants        55-59       60-64       65-69     70-74       >75         50-55       55-59       60-64     65-69     >70
 Austria         1,610,578    107,000      81,100     57,900    35,500       9,500      101,900      76,700     41,900    28,800    4,100

 Bulgaria        2,084,000     18,400       5,800       500       100            0       16,300       6,100       200         0          0
 Czech
 Republic        1,852,955     74,800      59,500     65,900    14,500           0       63,300      69,800     32,000      400          0

 Denmark         1,071,714     19,400       7,400      2,600     1,000        100        12,500       4,900      1,500      600          0

 Estonia          401,140      10,600       6,900      3,500      900            0        9,000       5,700      2,500      300          0

 Finland          560,905      27,500      25,400     16,700      200            0       27,600      21,500      2,000        0          0

 France         13,664,912   1,488,600    208,800    117,700    63,500      43,000     1,426,900    148,200     63,700    34,300   12,800

 Germany        17,265,322    478,300     246,700    122,400    31,400       5,700      393,800     194,400     75,800    16,700    3,300

 Hungary         2,065,230    132,500      50,600     19,600     7,900       1,200      110,700      40,900     16,400     6,000     700

 Ireland         1,150,000     10,600       6,800      2,800      500            0        7,700       3,500      1,400      100          0

 Italy           4,190,684     34,000      30,900     24,800     6,400       1,400       34,500      37,800     19,500     4,600    2,100

 Latvia           806,993      28,400      20,100      6,300      800         100        25,500       9,400      4,700      400          0

 Lithuania        932,847       9,100       5,000      1,100      300            0        8,600       2,800       800       200          0

 Netherlands     5,026,059    118,600      60,700     25,000     8,800       1,000       94,100      40,800     12,700     4,100    1,200

 Norway           822,800      19,200      15,500     16,000     4,900           0       18,300      18,100      7,900      600          0

 Poland          7,446,365    323,600     197,900     98,100    38,500       6,900      191,800     108,100     37,300      700      100

 Romania         4,079,364    135,700      90,700     15,700     1,300        100       184,200     111,700     44,600     4,800     200

 Slovakia         528,129      95,100      67,600     38,500    16,600       3,700       92,300      54,200     32,900     8,700    2,600

 Slovenia         266,251       6,700       3,500       900            0         0        5,800       2,300       500       200          0

 Spain           8,116,104     16,300       7,200      1,300      500            0        9,700       2,900      1,000      200          0

 Sweden          1,548,886     84,900      37,800     13,400     5,400       1,500       56,300      22,100      7,100     2,800     300

 Switzerland     5,300,000    182,700     126,600     98,500    62,300      25,900      156,100     107,700     85,000    41,600   16,900
 United
 Kingdom        25,613,309    395,500     291,400    157,900    46,800       6,000      321,000     193,700     69,600    14,000    2,200
 Total
 general       106,404,547   3,817,500   1,653,900   907,100   348,100     106,100     3,367,900   1,283,300   561,000   170,100   46,500

 Total EU 27   105,581,747   3,615,600   1,511,800   792,600   280,900      80,200     3,193,500   1,157,500   468,100   127,900   29,600


                                                                                                                       Source: ETC 2010.




                                                                 118
                                                                 Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
____________________________________________________________________________________________



ANNEX II:              MAXIMUM NOISE LEVELS OF ROLLING
                       STOCK ACCORDING TO TSI NOISE

Table 1:     Limiting values LpAeq,Tp for the pass-by noise of freight wagons

                              Wagons                                   LpAeq, Tp in dB

 New wagons with an average number of axles per unit length
                                                                                 82
 (apl) up to 0,15 m-1 at 80 km/h

 Renewed or upgraded wagons according Article 20 of Directive
 2008/57/EC with an average number of axles per unit length (apl)                84
 up to 0,15 m-1 at 80 km/h

 New wagons with an average number of axles per unit length
                                                                                 83
 (apl) higher than 0,15 m-1 up to 0,275 m-1 at 80 km/h

 Renewed or upgraded wagons according Article 20 of Directive
 2008/57/EC with an average number of axles per unit length (apl)                85
 higher than 0,15 m-1 up to 0,275 m-1 at 80 km/h

 New wagons with an average number of axles per unit length
                                                                                 85
 (apl) higher than 0,275 m-1 at 80 km/h

 Renewed or upgraded wagons according Article 20 of Directive
 2008/57/EC with an average number of axles per unit length (apl)                87
 higher than 0,275 m-1 at 80 km/h



Table 2:     Limiting value LpAeq,T for the stationary noise of freight wagons


                              Wagons                                   LpAeq, Tp in dB

 All freight wagons                                                              65



Table 3:   Limiting values LpAeq,T for the stationary noise of electric locomotives,
           diesel locomotives, OTMs, EMUs, DMUs and coaches


                              Wagons                                    LpAeq, Tp in dB

 Electric locomotives and OTMs with electric traction                            75

 Diesel locomotives and OTMs with diesel traction                                75

 EMUs                                                                            68

 DMUs                                                                            73

 Coaches                                                                         65




                                            119
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________

Table 4:         Limiting values LpAFmax for the starting noise                of   electric
                 locomotives, diesel locomotives, OTMs, EMUs and DMUs


                                     Vehicle                             LpAFmax in dB

  Electric locomotives P < 4 500 kW at the rail wheel                          82

  Electric locomotives P >/= 4 500 kW at the rail wheel and OTMs
                                                                               85
  with electric traction

  Diesel locomotives P < 2 000 kW at the engine output shaft                   86

  Diesel locomotives P >/= 2 000 kW at the engine output shaft
                                                                               89
  and OTMs with diesel traction

  EMUs                                                                         82

  DMUs P < 500 kW/engine                                                       83

  DMUs P >/= 500 kW/engine                                                     85



Table 5:     Limiting values LpAeq,Tp for the pass-by noise of electric and diesel
             locomotives, OTMs, EMUs, DMUs and coaches


                                     Vehicle                            LpAeq, Tp in dB

  Electric locomotives and OTMs with electric traction                         85

  Diesel locomotives and OTMs with diesel traction                             85

  EMUs                                                                         81

  DMUs                                                                         82

  Coaches                                                                      80




                                                        120
                                                                 Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
____________________________________________________________________________________________



ANNEX III:            COMPARISON OF COVERAGE OF BOGIES
                      FROM DIFFERENT MODERN ROLLING
                      STOCK EQUIPMENT




Well covered bogies by engine body of Swiss Engine type RE 460 (Lok 2000)




Open bogie of modern Bombardier Engine Traxx (example German type 186)




                                           121
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________




Well covered bogies of Swiss passenger wagon IC2000




Open bogie of modern German double deck wagons




                                                        122
                                                                  Reducing Railway Noise Pollution
____________________________________________________________________________________________



ANNEX IV:             IMPORTANT AND ANALYSED REGULATIONS
EU Political Papers        Relevant Contents with Respect to Railway Regulation
and Directives             and Railway Noise

Political Papers


White Paper 2001           EU transport policy for 2010. Shifting the balance between the
                           modes of transport. Revitalising the railways. Towards multi-
                           modal corridors giving priority to freight.

White Paper 2011           A true internal market for railway services. Standards for
                           controlling noise pollution. Among the ten goals for achieving
                           a competitive and sustainable transport system: Shift 30
                           (50)% of road freight over 300 km to rail and IWW by 2030
                           (2050).

Directives

Directives 1991/440        Framework and legal requirements for a competitive railway
                           system. Commercial organization of companies. Separation of
                           infrastructure management and service undertakings. Open
                           access to the railway network. Liberalized cross-border
                           transport.

Directives 2001/12-14      Comprehensive railway regulation framework, e.g.: Clear
                           separation of public and commercial issues. Freeing
                           companies from old debt. Separate bookkeeping and balance
                           sheets for infrastructure management and service provision.
                           Capacity provision and pricing for infrastructure provision.

Railway Packages 2001,     Specification of open access, essential facilities. Specification
2002, 2004                 of regulatory requirements. Establishment of national and EU
                           regulatory bodies (European Railway Agency). Rail track
                           charging principles (marginal cost plus mark-ups). Market
                           opening for freight (2007) and passenger long-distance
                           (2010) transport. Regulation of passenger rights and freight
                           transport quality. EU train driver license.

Recast of the First        Comprehensive specifications for establishing a single
Railway Package 2010       European railway area. General objectives: Establish an
                           internal railway market with high degree of competitiveness
Status: Under              and harmonious, balanced and sustainable development of
discussion.                economic activities. Revitalization of railways, modal shift.
                           Horizontal objectives: Legal simplification, clarification and
                           modernization     to   facilitate   implementation.      Specific
                           objectives: Ensuring sustainable funding of the infrastructure.
                           Avoiding distortions of competition. Providing effective and
                           independent regulation. Applied principles of rail track
                           charging under consideration of external effects (e.g. noise).
                           12 appendices with detailed specifications for application




                                           123
Policy Department B: Structural and Cohesion Policies
____________________________________________________________________________________________


 Related COM
 Decision

 COM 2006/66                      Technical Specifications for Interoperability related to the
                                  subsystem ‘rolling stock-noise’. Functional and technical
 (TSI Noise)                      specification of the sub-system. Limits for pass-by and
                                  stationary noise. Limits for locomotives, multiple units and
                                  coaches. Measurement, assessment, application to new and
                                  existing rolling stock.

 Related Directives

 Directive 2002/49                Assessment and management of environmental noise. Noise
                                  indicators, noise measurement and assessment. Obligation to
                                  publish noise maps. Obligation to develop noise action plans.
                                  Obligation for reviews and regular reporting. 6 Annexes with
                                  detailed specifications.

 Report      from          the    First implementation report based on the implementation
 Commission to the          EU    deadlines 2005 – 2012. Noise indicators and limit values
 Parliament and to         the    widely transposed. Significant achievements with harmonized
 Council       on          the    measurement and statistical reporting/noise mapping.
 Implementation              of   Difficulties still existing with health-based noise assessment
 Directive 2002/49                and heterogeneous situation with country-based action plans.

 Directive 2006/38                Charging heavy goods vehicles on motor- and freeways for
 revised                          infrastructure use. Basis: Allocated infrastructure costs plus
                                  mark-ups for noise and air pollution. This was the pre-
                                  condition set in Dir. 2001/14 for including noise costs in the
                                  rail track charging scheme.




                                                        124
From:           Florence LaRiviere
To:             Council, City
Subject:        Rail Separation
Date:           Tuesday, October 16, 2018 9:22:51 PM


Dear Council members,

We live in South Palo Alto a block from the train. We have lived here since 1950. We favor
the trench/tunnel option for Meadow and Charleston railroad crossings. By the way, what is
the status of the partial tunnel with single rail at grade for freight?

Apparently a crucial step that needs to take place is to get Caltrain to approve the 2% grade
(the consultants did their plans based on the 2% grade). We respectfully ask that you and city
staff let us know progress on this issue. Also, please work with Caltrain to lower the top of the
rail to bridge from 24.5 feet to 18.5 feet and keep us informed about those efforts.

Thank you so much for the time and effort already put into this project. Again, our preference
is trench/tunnel. The idea of the train on a wall/viaduct is out of the question and would badly
degrade the surrounding neighborhoods. Please listen to those most affected by the Caltrain
electrification. Let’s put equal energy and consideration for the south part of Palo Alto. If all
parties are truly heard and valued, we can come up with the least intrusive option that is also
the least divisive politically and physically to our city.

Respectfully yours,
Florence LaRiviere
Virginia LaRiviere

453 Tennessee Lane
Palo Alto, Ca 94306
From:           Jay E. Thorwaldson
To:             Sharleen Fiddaman
Cc:             Council, City
Subject:        Re: Cal-Train issue
Date:           Monday, October 22, 2018 8:21:50 AM


Thanks, Sharleen.

Sorry about the mental typo of the $150,000 cost of grade separations instead of the
$150 million estimate.

Have you heard of anyone pushing actively for a new election on high-speed rail
based on the later cost projections? Seems that $33 billion is wildly off base, and
perhaps only a third of the real cost of the system.

-jay




From: "Sharleen Fiddaman" <sf@sharleenfiddaman.com>
To: "jaythor" <jaythor@well.com>
Cc: "city council" <city.council@cityofpaloalto.org>
Sent: Saturday, October 20, 2018 7:23:23 PM
Subject: Cal-Train issue


Dear Jay Thorwaldson,



I’ve been a Palo Alto resident for 50+ years and have read many of your articles. I think the
Oct. 19th one in the Weekly is most important. I’m very concerned about the Cal-Train
decision and our resulting quality of life in Palo Alto.



When the issue of electrifying Cal-Train was first discussed many years ago, a visual
presentation was made to the District Board of Realtors who met at the Senior Center on
Friday mornings. This presentation had great impact! It showed drawings of options.



One drawing showed the electrified train, elevated 15’ over the roadway with the required 15’
tower of wires overhead. This was horrifying to see! So ugly, and dividing our fine city. This
alone in any scenario, elevated or trenched, would surprise residents who probably assume the
electrified train operates like an electric car – just turn a switch, not so. As is said, a picture
is worth a thousand words!



One drawing showed the electrified train in an underground tunnel with a green park-like field
over it. A beautiful solution. Ideal. We need more open useful space. This brings to mind
the wonderful modern underground parking garage at Stanford University which has a huge
park over it. I’ve observed students relaxing, reading, playing Frisbee, etc. on the expansive
lawn. If they can do it, Palo Alto can do it!



I definitely favor the tunnel solution for Cal-Train. Major cities of the world have
underground transportation. I know the argument is that it is too expensive. Palo Alto is quite
affluent and could make it happen. Where there’s a will there’s a way!



Please see if you can find these drawings and print them in the newspaper, and share
them with study groups, city council, all media and neighboring cities. I feel that people are
making decision without full information of the implications! I have not seen any renderings.
It’s a permanent solution…our future! We should do it right!



Sharleen Fiddaman

   Old Palo Alto



          Virus-free. www.avast.com
From:           Ken Joye
To:             Council, City
Subject:        study session on traffic 22 October
Date:           Tuesday, October 16, 2018 4:36:37 PM


I will not be able to attend the study session on traffic scheduled for 22 October 2018, so write
you here instead.

I wish to propose that you and staff consider prioritizing cross-rail traffic at the Charleston
and Meadow crossings. I believe that this can be done by re-programming the traffic light
signals at those two intersections. I concede that I am not a traffic engineer and so my naive
idea may have fatal flaws. Nonetheless, I believe it worthy of your consideration.

Currently, when a train approaches those intersections, the crossing arms come down and
these things happen: all directions are shown a red light except for traffic headed toward
Middlefield Rd, following which traffic on Alma is given a green light (first “southbound,
then “northbound” after southbound left-turning). From that, the normal cycle ensues.

I propose a fundamental change: when the crossing arms descend, give a red light to all
directions except for traffic headed toward Middlefield Rd, followed by a red light in all
directions until the rail tracks are clear and the crossing arms are lifted. At that point, begin
the normal cycle with “westbound” traffic toward El Camino Real, followed by “eastbound”
traffic toward Middlefield Rd, then Alma “southbound” and “northbound”. That is, don’t
have every crossing arm trigger a north/south flow on Alma St.

The effect of this will be to reduce wait time for Palo Alto residents attempting to cross the rail
tracks, favoring that movement over the out-of-town traffic between Mountain View and Palo
Alto.

Obviously this would be a considerable change and would need to be validated by a proper
traffic study. I believe that the time currently between the green light to southbound and the
lifting of the crossing arms is approximately 20 seconds. This would not be an overly long
time to delay traffic movement and would considerably improve cross rail travel.

thank you for your consideration,
Ken Joye
Ventura neighborhood
From:            Svetlana Yepanechnikova
To:              Council, City
Subject:         Trench/Tunnel Option
Date:            Monday, October 15, 2018 10:55:37 AM


October 15, 2018
To: Rail Committee
RE: Tunnel/Trench vs. Hybrid and Viaduct


Dear City Council and City Staff,


As a longtime resident of Palo Alto and the property owner on Park Boulevard, I would like to
state that you have my full support on Tunnel/Trench option. As young mother with two
kids I do care for safety and decreased/eliminated noise level this option provides.
I would like to ask City Council and City Staff to get Caltrain to approve 2% grade. Please
publish those efforts as a standing agenda for the CAP and for all the committee/council
meetings. As I see it, this is the one most critical factor that will reduce the cost irrespective of
the option chosen.
Additionally, I would like to ask to get Caltrain to approve 18.5ft top of rail to bridge clearance
instead of 24.5ft". Please publish those efforts as a standing agenda for the CAP and for all the
committee/council meetings.  
An update on the Trench/Tunnel Option would be greatly appreciated. AECOM / Rail
Committee cannot make unilateral decision to suddenly stop or merge this option with
Shallow Trench. These are two different options. The Tunnel for Charleston/Meadow should
be analyzed with Caltrain electric for tunnel and freight single rail at grade. CAP/Residents
should be provided with detailed analysis on the Trench/Tunnel option.  While the Shallow
Trench should continue to be explored assuming 2% grade is approved by Caltrain. Since
underground is a preferred choice, all options from this category should have detailed
analysis.
Furthermore, I would like to ask for Raised rail options to be merged to one - Hybrid and
Viaduct option.
In conclusion, I would like to restate that Tunnel/Trench is my preferred choice and our
petition for the LOWERED RAIL has 555 signatures as of today.


Respectfully,
Svetlana Yepanechnikova
From:            Yuriy
To:              Council, City
Subject:         Tunnel/Trench vs. Hybrid and Viaduct
Date:            Monday, October 15, 2018 12:07:22 PM


Dear City Council and City Staff,


As a longtime resident of Palo Alto and the property owner on Park Boulevard, I would like to
state that you have my full support on Tunnel/Trench option. As young father with two kids
I do care for safety and decreased/eliminated noise level this option provides.
I would like to ask City Council and City Staff to get Caltrain to approve 2% grade. Please
publish those efforts as a standing agenda for the CAP and for all the committee/council
meetings. As I see it, this is the one most critical factor that will reduce the cost irrespective of
the option chosen.
Additionally, I would like to ask to get Caltrain to approve 18.5ft top of rail to bridge clearance
instead of 24.5ft". Please publish those efforts as a standing agenda for the CAP and for all the
committee/council meetings.  
An update on the Trench/Tunnel Option would be greatly appreciated. AECOM / Rail
Committee cannot make unilateral decision to suddenly stop or merge this option with
Shallow Trench. These are two different options. The Tunnel for Charleston/Meadow should
be analyzed with Caltrain electric for tunnel and freight single rail at grade. CAP/Residents
should be provided with detailed analysis on the Trench/Tunnel option.  While the Shallow
Trench should continue to be explored assuming 2% grade is approved by Caltrain. Since
underground is a preferred choice, all options from this category should have detailed
analysis.
Furthermore, I would like to ask for Raised rail options to be merged to one - Hybrid and
Viaduct option.
In conclusion, I would like to restate that Tunnel/Trench is my preferred choice and our
petition for the LOWERED RAIL has 555 signatures as of today.


Respectfully,
Yuriy Yepanechnikov
 SEPTEMBER 2018 EMAILS TO CITY.COUNCIL ABOUT
   CONNECTING PALO ALTO GRADE SEPARATION
From:             Cedric de La Beaujardiere
To:               Council, City; De Geus, Robert; Transportation; Gennady Sheyner; de La Beaujardiere, Cedric
Subject:          Room for a raised rail between Alma and retained Western Track, keep option on the table
Date:             Wednesday, September 26, 2018 2:14:03 AM
Attachments:      ViaductBetweenWestTrackAndAlma.Overview.MeadowCharleston.png
                  ViaductBetweenWestTrackAndAlma.NearVenturaAtGrade.png
                  ViaductBetweenWestTrackAndAlma.AtMeadow.png
                  ViaductBetweenWestTrackAndAlma.AtCharleston.png




Members of the City Council Rail Committee,

I believe there is room to build a raised rail structure between the western track and
alma, and I have done a graphical analysis to show this is possible. The benefit of this is that
the Western track could be left in place and potentially continue to carry rail traffic
while the raised tracks are constructed, thus avoiding the expense and impact of
temporary tracks down Alma. In addition, the infrequent freight trains could stay at grade
on that Western track, reducing noise propagation and potentially allowing a 2% grade for the
raised portions. A further benefit of this alignment is that it pushes the passenger rail line as
far away as possible from the houses along Park Blvd. There would be room to put trees
between the western track and the houses to shield the structure from view.

I would like to point out that it would likely be a financially disastrous mistake
to prematurely remove the viaduct options from consideration before they have been fairly
evaluated from a cost perspective. The cost of a viaduct structure has never been estimated
by the city staff. The closest was a set of preliminary estimates (on page 23 of Types of Grade
Seperations and Constraints, Sep 16, 2017) including a hybrid of partially raised rail and partially lowered
road, at $180M. Of note in that same estimates chart that: leaving the rail at grade and lowering
the road under the rail was 4 times the cost of raising the road over the rail, and similarly,
lowering the rail under the road was over 6 times the cost of raising the rail slightly (and the
lowering he road a bit). One sees then that trenching anything appears to be 4x to 6x the
cost of raising it instead. Further, One can then reasonably assume that the cost of entirely
raising the rail is in the same order of magnitude as partially raising the rail, and many times
less expensive than trenching the rail.

I recognize that the current political pressure is from those who live closest to the rail, and the
politically expedient thing to do is to bend to their pressure. However, if you remove raised
rail on wall or viaducts from consideration, we'll be left with the options of trenching at an
astronomical cost, or closing intersections, with no middle ground. At that point, when it
comes time to somehow scrape together $2B, you will be faced with much different political
pressure as the rest of the city and taxpayers begin to realize the financial burden you then
plan to place upon them and the city. A raised rail option appears to be a middle-ground
solution which achieves grade separation and much lower construction and lifetime
maintenance cost.

Below are some images from my graphical analysis. Here I used the Right of Way (ROW)
maps available from the CA HSR website, and standards for horizontal clearance laid out
in Peninsula Corridor JPB Standards for Design Structures.pdf which call for 10' clearance
from track center lines to the face of a barrier, and 15' clearances between two adjacent
tracks. In my calculation of the distance of the structure from the western track, I assumed a 1' thick outer
edge on each side of the structure, where a soundwall could be installed. Thus, east of the
Western track's Center Line (CL), I leave a 10' space, then a 1' thick structure western edge,
then 10' clearance to the first track CL, 15' to the second track, 10' to the inner edge of the
structure, and a 1' thick eastern edge. For illustration purposes I created segments of such a
structure, each 0.1 mile long (528 feet), and laid these out on a map of the rail ROW. One can
see from this illustration that there is room for such a structure without encroaching
onto Alma.

For my distance calculations of the rail ramping up and down I have a 10 km radius curve to
go from horizontal to reach a 1% slope, followed by another 10km radius curve to reach
horizontal, then back down again. If the ground is level the whole time, the ramp length is just
under 1900' feet long to go from 0' to a clearance height of 15.5' above the road.

Here is an overview of the segment over West Meadow and Charleston:


Below is the northern edge of the structure, reaching grade near El Verano Ave and Ventura
Ave.
The light green lines with tick marks indicate the 10' + 1' + 10' + 15' + 10' + 1' spacings.
The light green lines are extending from a thicker black line which indicates the Western
track's Center Line on the ROW maps.
The pink double-dashed lines represent the ROW boundary.


Below is the segment crossing West Meadow.
Here i have made the structure semi transparent to show the ROW boundary line below,
which it would slightly overhang, but still be well outside of the Alma ROW



Below is the segment over Charleston, totally within the JPB ROW and totally outside of the
Alma ROW, even with Alma's right-turn pocket on the north side of Charleston:



Respectfully,
Cedric de La Beaujardiere
From:        herb
To:          Council, City; Clerk, City
Subject:     September 26, 2018, Rail Committee Meeting, Item #1: Agreement with Caltrain
Date:        Tuesday, September 25, 2018 7:19:50 PM


Herb Borock
P. O. Box 632
Palo Alto, CA 94302
September 25, 2018
Palo Alto City Council
250 Hamilton Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94301

ATTN: RAIL COMMITTEE
SEPTEMBER 26, 2018, RAIL COMMITTEE MEETING, AGENDA ITEM #1: AGREEMENT WITH CALTRAIN

Dear City Council:
Why is this agreement appearing on your agenda a month after the Joint Powers Board started work in Palo Alto on the
Caltrain Electrification Project.
According to the August 27, 2018, press release from Caltrain
(http://www.caltrain.com/about/MediaRelations/news/Caltrain_to_Hold_Public_Meeting_on_Electrification_in_Palo_Alto.html),
construction activities were set to begin that week.
Of the 19 cities and counties requiring Construction & Maintenance agreements with Caltrain, only Atherton and Palo Alto
had not signed an agreement for a long time, while San Francisco had signed its agreement by November 30, 2017, but
still needs to sign a Condemnation Authority agreement.
Sincerely,
Herb Borock  
From:                Letha DiLauro
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             train crossing Charleston and Meadow
Date:                Sunday, September 2, 2018 10:11:34 PM




Dear City Council,

I want the train or tunnel. I do not it on a wall. The wall will make the train louder, it is an ugly choose for Palo
Alto and we do not deserve a better than an eyesore. We will live wit the decision for the next 100 years. Do what is
right.

 We have enough noise with airplane traffic and the train. We do not need any additional noise pollution. I have
lived here for 47 years and am losing my hearing. Do you think the train could have anything to do with it? Before
my husband’s passing in 2016 he was also losing his hearing.

 Why are we still studying the train on the wall? Put the money into a decision. Has anyone brought up the concern
over suicide prevention?

Thank you for reading y email.

Letha DiLauro
4131 Park Blvd.
Palo Alto, CA 94306

650-493-4278
