            DOCUMENTS IN THIS PACKET INCLUDE:


                LETTERS FROM CITIZENS TO THE
                   MAYOR OR CITY COUNCIL


    RESPONSES FROM STAFF TO LETTERS FROM CITIZENS


        ITEMS FROM MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS


      ITEMS FROM OTHER COMMITTEES AND AGENCIES


ITEMS FROM CITY, COUNTY, STATE, AND REGIONAL AGENCIES




     Prepared for:          01/28/2019
      Document dates: 01/09/2019 – 01/16/2019

                                Set 1
 Note: Documents for every category may not have been received for packet
                      reproduction in a given week.




                                                                      701-32
                                                                                      COUNCIL MEETING

                                                                                       ✔
                                                                                               01/14/2019
                                                                                           Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                                       3
Carnahan, David

From:                 Janice Hough <janicehough@yahoo.com>
Sent:                 Saturday, January 12, 2019 11:31 AM
To:                   Transportation; Council, City
Subject:              The Middlefield North Traffic Experiment.


Hello folks

I am a resident of Downtown North

I think the Middlefield North Traffic Experiment should be ended, the barriers taken away, and turn restrictions put back
in place for peak hours.

Here are my reasons.

In short, it is too draconian a solution to a problem, and bad for the environment.

Yes, during rush hours it is dangerous to turn left on Middlefield from Everett and Hawthorne. But off‐peak hours and
weekends it is not nearly so bad, and just requires paying attention, as most driving does.

At this point, even at 6a on a Saturday, or Sunday afternoon, or whenever, residents of Downtown North must go
several blocks at least out of their way, 5‐10 minutes of extra time on the road to make that left turn onto Middlefield,
which is the logical way to head to San Francisco and the airport, amongst other places. That is more gas used, and more
pollution

The narrowed Middlefield backs up traffic on a regular basic. Which results in lots of idling and again, it's bad for the
environment. Indeed, Palo Alto has a rule against excessive idling for that reason. It can take longer to get from say,
Willow to Lytton, or from University to Willow, than to drive from Menlo Park to Downtown, for example.

One argument for the barriers is that people don't obey turn restrictions. One day a week for a few hours having police
officers issue expensive tickets necessitating traffic school should cure that problem.

Sincerely,


Janice Hough
189 Bryant Street
Palo Alto, CA 94301




                                                             1
Carnahan, David

From:                 Roy Stehle <rstehle@windband.org>
Sent:                 Saturday, January 12, 2019 5:31 PM
To:                   Council, City
Cc:                   Roy Stehle; Gary Richards; Palo Alto Daily Post
Subject:              Urging Council not to vote to accept the Middlefield North configuration


Mayor Filseth and Council Members,

I am writing to strongly request that the City Council not accept the Current Configuration of the Middlefield Road North
Traffic Study Project. I have some serious concerns about parts of the implementation and I do not feel that the public
has been given adequate notice that a report was available and given an adequate opportunity to comment. A
procedural consent vote, scheduled for this coming Monday to adopt what has been implemented should be delayed.

I only became aware, through the Council's Meeting Agenda e‐mail, that a report existed and that the consent vote had
been scheduled. I've wanted to submit my comments on problems I and my wife have encountered with parts of the
implementation. Until recently, the large white signs were still posted on poles along Middlefield Road, suggesting that
the project was still under review. The report is only dated January 3, 2019. On a matter this serious, I would have
expected newspaper articles and NextDoor comments. The Public Opinion Survey was restricted to the small area
immediately adjacent to the project and did not solicit comments from the public commuting through the project.

Over 50 years ago, my wife and I chose our home on Garland Drive to have a convenient route, via Middlefield Road, to
my work (recently retired) at SRI International, our church, our daughter's family residence, friends, and shopping. Over
those decades, we have experienced the traffic along Middlefield Road and the neighborhoods.

I understand the Council's desire to make traveling the road safe and efficient. My experience over the pilot period is
that this goal has not been achieved at two major intersections. The University to Everett stretch is the most in need of
correction and some minor change at Embarcadero would be beneficial. (I recognize that the Embarcadero intersection
is not a part of this report and vote, but it is part of the overall Middlefield road diet and needs to be considered.) I feel
that the improvements in safety and travel time shown in the Alta Planning report are not as optimistic as reported
because of lack of commuter input, specifically with regard to unreported incidents.


Middlefield Road from University Avenue to Everett Avenue
‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐

The project has been effective in reducing the collisions that had occurred from travelers on the side streets turning
onto Middlefield. I am most concerned about the decrease in safety that my wife and I feel in our travels northbound on
Middlefield due to the installation of the forced left turn lane at Lytton and the immediate reduction to one lane there.
Our travel time has also been impacted by this configuration. The parallel streets have also been negatively impacted by
diverting traffic.

I am requesting that the northbound configuration pre‐project be restored with two lanes tapering to one at Everett.
The left turn only restriction would be removed between University and Lytton.

This stretch of Middlefield is complicated by the presence of the major arterial that is University Avenue. I would
estimate 30% of the vehicles northbound on Middlefield turn right onto University. This slows down the traffic in lane #2
(closest to the curb). Because of the left turn lane on Middlefield beginning at University, through traffic needs to be
queued in the #2 lane. I have been in a single line of cars in the #2 lane that stretched almost to Forest Avenue; the #1

                                                               1
lane had only one or two cars stopped at University. When you add in the waiting time to go through two or three signal
cycles, the average delay is increased significantly more than the 3 to 10 seconds noted in the report.

This imbalance in lane function and queues creates the most serious problems to occur in the block between University
and Lytton. My wife and I have both, on different occasions, been subjected to near collisions. Waiting at the limit line at
Lytton for the light to turn green in the through‐traffic lane, we have been forced toward the curb, when the light
changed, to avoid a collision from a vehicle in the left turn lane that simultaneously drove forward on Middlefield. This
was a clear violation of the vehicle code and collisions were avoided only by quick reactions on our parts. While traveling
in the through lane after University, we have witnessed at least six vehicles drive straight forward from the left turn
lane.

The lack of vehicles in the #1 lane approaching University causes motorists to "roll the dice" and figure they can force
merge into the thick line of traffic in the through‐lane. This results in many "dive bombers" and more near collisions.
There is no good way to explain to traffic that the left lane after University is a forced turn. The signs are small and close
to University. It is also unfriendly to visitors to Palo Alto. I have seen cars westbound on University turn right into the
northbound Middlefield left turn lane, because the through lane was filled with vehicles. Only then did they discover
that they are in a left turn lane. At that point, they signal for entry into the filled through lane, blocking cars that did
want to enter the left turn lane. Because the through traffic vehicles sat through multiple signal cycles to get where the
were, many of those drivers didn't want to let those unfortunate cars or the dive bombers into their lane. Also, people
who find themselves in the forced left turn lane don't want to turn left because there isn't any easy way to get back on
Middlefield because of the left turn restrictions implemented at Everett and Hawthorne.

These extremely dangerous conditions never happened when two lanes were permitted northbound before the
project. Collisions weren't occurring there. There is sufficient distance from Lytton to Everett for traffic to merge into
one lane that wouldn't have the collision potentials and delays of the configuration implemented by the project. The #1
lane would have a green arrow along with the green allowing drivers in the #1 lane to turn left or go forward with a safer
merge. An overhead sign at Lytton would make it clear that a merge was required for through traffic.

The report noted significant intersection turning movements causing many backups that hadn't existed before the
project. Increasing the northbound lane back to the original two at Lytton would reduce these backups.

The report found that traffic and speeds have increased in the parallel roads. This is caused by people who have safety
or time concerns about the changed configuration on this portion of Middlefield.

It should be intuitive that two lanes are necessary at traffic signal to accomplish the traffic flow rate along a single lane
road. This is due to the need for vehicle acceleration and inter‐vehicle spacing requirements. This configuration was
eliminated at the Middlefield intersections at University and Lytton, reducing safety and traffic flow.


Middlefield Road at Embarcadero Road
‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐

I have written to the City's Transportation Department about problems created by the incorporation of left turn only
lanes. I have not received any word from then. The provided queue length is too short to allow an adequate number of
cars to enter the lane
because the backup in the straight‐through single lane line of cars exceeds the length of the left turn lane. This causes
left turning drivers to wait though one or more signals when the left turn lane is visibly empty. I had asked if the double
solid line
could be painted broken on the one side to allow legal passing of cars to enter the left turn lane. Usually, there are no
cars coming from the opposite direction and the maneuver can be accomplished safely. It would be unreasonable to
property owners to
remove more curbside parking to extend the left turn lanes.

                                                               2
A suggested solution, which did exist for a short time during the initial project, was to have a green left arrow active at
the same time as the green straight ahead light, alternating northbound and southbound directions. More cars would be
able to pass
through the intersection than when the left turn is a separate part of the cycle.

A better solution would be to return the intersection to its original, pre‐project configuration and the removal of the
intimidating "Right Turn Only"
labels for the northbound curbside lane on front of the Walter Hays Elementary School.


Conclusion
‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐

The Middlefield Road North Traffic Safety Project End‐pilot Report was just produced on January 3, 2019 and consists of
158 pages with much information to read and understand. To my knowledge, this is the first time that residents of Palo
Alto have seen
the report. The survey conducted by the project included too small a set of the population to be fully representative. I
feel that there are conditions of unsafe operations along Middlefield that have not received sufficient recognition in the
report.

While there have been significant benefits in the elimination of crashes, problems have arisen because of constriction of
traffic due to the implementation of left turn only lanes. I am requesting that Council withhold approval of the presently
implemented
Middlefield roadway configuration until more study and input from the public can be received. I have suggested some
configuration changes that would improve both safety and traffic flow along this corridor. I would appreciate their
review.

Textbook designs often fail when implemented in the real world. The Ross Road project is one example. In this case of
Middlefield Road, poorly implemented left turn only configurations need fixing. More public input is required.


Sincerely,

  Roy Stehle
  Garland Drive, Palo Alto
  Former technical advisor to TravInfo
  Former member of FHWA's National ITS Architecture Technical Review Team




                                                             3
Carnahan, David

From:               dbmoos1 <dbmoos1@earthlink.net>
Sent:               Sunday, January 13, 2019 7:19 AM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            Middlefield-University traffic diet?


I rarely use Middlefield Rd north of University however was reminded about the dangerous changes to the Middlefield‐
University traffic lanes by a post on Nextdoor. The changes mean that northbound through traffic has to move to the left
lane before reaching University, and change to the right lane inside the intersection or within the very short stretch of
road between there and Lytton. The consequence is confusion, rapid lane changes, long backups due to getting stuck in
the wrong lane, or illegally going straight instead of turning.
It’s dangerous, wasteful of time and fuel, increases pollution and congestion, and exhausting mentally and physically.
Please remove the restrictions, or, ADD extra pavement for turn only lanes. This and other attempts to put roads on
diets are expensive wrong headed and ineffective.
Respectfully;
Daniel Moos

Sent from my iPhone




                                                            1
Carnahan, David

From:                Rosalie <shep8283@comcast.net>
Sent:                Sunday, January 13, 2019 6:12 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Concerning Middlefield vote to approve new configuration


Dear Council Members,

I have lived on Middlefield Rd. for 25 years, just south of Embarcadero. This intersection gets more confusing for drivers
every time the city tries to FIX it.

Please take more time before you vote to approve anything. There are many many pages to read and digest in this
project.Why hasn’t this been brought to the attention of the citizens of Palo Alto.

What is the hurry? We need more time. We live here!!

Rosalie Shepherd
Middlefield Rd.




                                                            1
Carnahan, David

From:               Susan Wolfe <wolfeperson@gmail.com>
Sent:               Sunday, January 13, 2019 5:49 PM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            Please do not approve the Middlefield Road traffic configurations


As Middlefield Road is newly configured, there are several lane reductions that are abrupt and dangerous. Cars getting
trapped unawares in a turn lane who don’t want to turn take dangerous risks to stay on Middlefield. Please insist that
these design mistakes are fixed before you approve anything.

We already have one disaster with Ross Road. Please don’t finalize another one.

Thank you and regards,
Susan Wolfe
350 Campesino Avenue

Sent from my iPhone




                                                           2
Carnahan, David

From:                 rogersac@aol.com
Sent:                 Sunday, January 13, 2019 6:54 PM
To:                   Council, City
Subject:              Middlefield Road diet


Dear Council Members.

Thank you for your concern about traffic around Palo Alto and spending time and effort in discussing how to improve
efficient traffic flow.

I am concerned about the fact that Middlefield Road test project may be approved without discussion about the effects to
parallel streets. According to the article in Palo Alto online, it seems that traffic is using parallel streets as an alternate to
using Middlefield Road. Is this the ultimate goal of the traffic diet?

Have any of the residents on the streets near Middlefield been asked how this is affecting their streets? Have there been
more accidents on these streets? Do residents of these streets find it harder to enter or leave their driveways or their
street into intersecting streets?

I think the effects of this diet in respect to the full neighbourhood should be investigated.

Sincerely,
Carol Rogers,
3395 Stockton Place.




                                                                 3
Carnahan, David

From:                Lorraine Menuz <lmenuz@yahoo.com>
Sent:                Sunday, January 13, 2019 7:22 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Middlefield configurations


You keep promising to do your best for Palo Alto residents. Then you implement all kinds of stupid traffic configurations
to slow traffic and make it more dangerous for pedestrians, bicyclists, and motorists. Stop all these ludicrous changes.
They just cost lots of money and do nothing to solve the problem. Leave the roads alone!
Your law telling motorists to turn off their cars just causes more traffic jams.
The city council has turned a beautiful accessible city of neighborhood small shops into high end big business city.
STOP 🛑 !

Sent from my iPhone




                                                            4
Carnahan, David

From:                 John Guislin <jguislin@gmail.com>
Sent:                 Sunday, January 13, 2019 8:51 PM
To:                   Council, City
Cc:                   Clerk, City
Subject:              Middlefield Road Project


Council Members:

The Middlefield North Traffic Project is a success by any measure. The project required 5 years of dedicated effort by
residents in collaboration with city staff to reach this point. The final report is clear in its endorsement of the changes.

Most of those posting comments against the project say that it does not solve the problem of traffic congestion or
dangerous driver behavior. These issues are beyond the scope of the Middlefield project. The reconfiguration of
Middlefield was designed to improve safety for all users of this area; drivers, bicyclists, pedestrians and residents, and it
has succeeded. In particular, residents are grateful to no longer have cars crashing onto the sidewalks and into our front
yards.

Based on the resident survey and the data collected and detailed in the report, this project is a success. Take the win and
move on to address the more difficult challenges of city‐wide traffic congestion.

Thank you,
John Guislin




                                                               5
Carnahan, David

From:                  Andrea Lichter <andrealichter@gmail.com>
Sent:                  Monday, January 14, 2019 10:53 AM
To:                    Council, City
Subject:               Middlefield Road North Traffic Safety Project


Dear Council Members,

It’s great when the city and residents partner and collaborate to solve problems. The Middlefield Road North Project is a positive
example in that it resulted in a significant increase in the safety and well‐being of those who live on/or near that stretch of
Middlefield Road and those who travel the road everyday. Prior to the pilot, car crashes/collisions and/or screeching tires were
everyday sounds.

Some will say it is an inconvenience and it may take longer to negotiate the neighborhood. I know it can take several minutes for
getting out of our driveway onto Middlefield, but I find people stop to let me in if I am patient. (It feels good to give a “thank you”
wave so early in the morning.)

Safely and well‐being of our community should be the most important thing and it’s hard to argue with the data. I urge you to adopt
the current configuration as a permanent feature.

Respectfully,
Andrea Lichter
212 Middlefield Road




                                                                    1
Carnahan, David

From:              beth.guislin@gmail.com
Sent:              Monday, January 14, 2019 10:23 AM
To:                Council, City
Cc:                Rius, Rafael; Aggarwal, Ruchika
Subject:           Please approve Middlefield Road configuration: Safety is highest priority, and it has improved greatly



Council Members,
Please approve the current configuration of Middlefield Road that was in the trial. The trial configuration has
resulted in increased safety considerably, and particularly for pedestrians on the sidewalks and in crosswalks. I
live on Middlefield, and my main reason for advocating for the trial was to improve safety. We no longer have
cars coming on to the sidewalks in accidents. As one neighbor wrote to Palo Alto Weekly, she is no longer
needs to call 911 to report serious accidents.

Before the trial Middlefield had two lanes of traffic in each direction, and the northbound lanes merged to
one‐lane north of Everett. When traffic was not congested, drivers heading northbound on Middlefield often
raced to see who could get ahead, sometimes with serious safety concerns for pedestrians and motorists alike.
Yes, Middlefield is a Residential Arterial—but all streets need to be safe.

The Transportation department has done an excellent job reaching out to the community, providing models
for review at public meetings, and listening to concerns. This Middlefield trial is a fine example of how to
engage citizens.

Thank you.

Beth Guislin




                                                          2
Carnahan, David

From:                Hal Prince <hal@aya.yale.edu>
Sent:                Monday, January 14, 2019 10:11 AM
To:                  Aggarwal, Ruchika; John Guislin; Rius, Rafael; Council, City
Subject:             Resident comments on Middlefield Rd project


Council,

I live on Middlefield Rd in the area of the project under discussion tonight.

The project has made a HUGE difference to the safety of Middlefield Rd in that area.

The number of accidents, once very high, is now basically zero.

The crosswalks give us a chance to cross the street safely.

Bicyclists no longer have to compete with cars in too‐narrow lanes.

The middle turn lane means that cars making left turns can do so without impeding traffic flow.

My neighbors and I are very much in favor of making the project permanent.

Regards,

Hal Prince
211 Middlefield Rd
Palo Alto




                                                              3
Carnahan, David

From:                Marion Odell <marionodell7@gmail.com>
Sent:                Monday, January 14, 2019 1:42 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Middlefield/Everett


I live on Everett and am so pleased with the Middlefield/Everett intersection. The improvements this past year have
made my family feel so much safer every day. I read the results of the study in today's Daily and am pleased with the
reduction of accidents at the intersection.
Marion Odell resident on Everett.




                                                            1
Carnahan, David

From:                Ryan McCauley <ryanjoemccauley@gmail.com>
Sent:                Monday, January 14, 2019 2:01 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Middlefield Road Pilot


Dear Councilmembers:

I’m writing to request that you please remove the Middlefield Road reconfiguration from the consent calendar for
tonight’s meeting and ask staff to further engage with the community and most‐impacted neighborhoods about the
Middlefield pilot project. Everyone in our community wants safe and effective roadways – those goals are not exclusive
of one another – and the Middlefield configuration can (and should) be further improved. As outlined in the staff and
consultant reports (and as felt acutely by surrounding neighborhoods), the impacts of the Middlefield pilot are
significant and far‐reaching. We have time to get this right and there is no urgency to end the pilot now. I’d like to offer
the following reasons why the pilot should be continued to find the best balance for this important corridor:

                ∙   Effective arterials are essential. The intention of the Middlefield pilot has been, in essence, to
                reduce the efficiency of the Lytton‐to‐Menlo Park corridor to improve safety. Safety is always
                imperative, but we need to implement mechanisms that directly address safety issues while also
                promoting efficient arterials.
                        o The results of the several traffic studies are a mixed bag in many respects (e.g., reported
                        accidents in the past 18 months are down but dangerous “near‐misses” are up sharply), but one
                        effect is clear: the reconfiguration of Middlefield has pushed traffic onto neighborhood side
                        streets and, from my perspective, significantly impacted safety on those side streets that are not
                        designed to support the volume or speed of traffic on Middlefield. (My street — in line with
                        observations for most side streets in the area — has seen a traffic increase of approximately
                        150%.) It is axiomatic that constraining one part of the arterial network will necessarily impact
                        the alternative paths. That has unquestionably happened, but the negative effects of the
                        reconfiguration seem to have been given short shrift.


                        o For example, during the Middlefield pilot, the traffic conditions on Lytton and University have
                        deteriorated significantly. The Middlefield‐Willow Road corridor is an important access route to
                        and from downtown Palo Alto and the principal alternative to University. Recognizing that
                        multiple factors are in play and that traffic patterns are dynamic, the constraints placed on the
                        Middlefield‐Willow corridor seem to have exacerbated the horrible traffic situation on
                        University. (During peak evening commute times, traffic on University is frequently backed up
                        from 101 all the way to Guinda or Middlefield. As you can see in the attached photo, which
                        shows traffic on Lytton that is attempting to access Middlefield, the pilot project has resulted in
                        significant backups stretching many blocks down Lytton too.) In short, constraining Middlefield
                        traffic has significant ripple effects, only some of which have been assessed. The impact of the
                        Middlefield pilot should be considered in the broader context of impacts to the arterial network
                        in downtown Palo Alto.

                ∙     The pilot should be continued to evaluate individual traffic configurations. I strongly favor
                reasonable experimentation and support the concept of a pilot project for Middlefield, but in order to
                strike the right balance, the pilot needs to control for and evaluate the effectiveness of individual sets of
                traffic changes. All at the same time, the pilot has reduced Middlefield’s lanes from four to two (with a
                new center turning lane), added traffic‐directing barricades at Everett and Hawthorne (though not

                                                             2
                added any illuminated crosswalk signs or crosswalk islands), and restricted access to northbound
                Middlefield from Downtown North at all times. There is no assessment of which of these changes has
                improved safety. Two examples:
                       o Pedestrian safety is one of the top goals for the Middlefield pilot. I typically cross north
                       Middlefield with my family several times a week walking to the Willows Market or another
                       location east of Middlefield. As a pedestrian, I do not perceive significant safety improvements
                       from the intersection changes at Everett and Hawthorne. Indeed, my experience is that
                       frustrated commuters who have been stuck in long queues trying to get out of downtown drive
                       faster and are less likely to yield for pedestrians than they were previously. If pedestrian safety
                       is a key goal – and everyone is in agreement on that – then there is far more to be done (e.g.,
                       the increasingly common solar‐powered, lighted crosswalk signs at either Everett or Hawthorne
                       would be a real game changer) to reasonably improve pedestrian safety and keep traffic
                       moving.

                        o As a second example, the restricted access from Downtown North to northbound
                        Middlefield/Willow during all hours seems unnecessary and counterproductive. (Access to
                        arterials is important too and far busier roadways that support much faster‐moving traffic (e.g.,
                        Embarcadero and Alma) don’t feature any similar draconian restrictions.) That is particularly the
                        case now that the entire stretch of Middlefield from Menlo Park to Lytton features a center turn
                        lane and any accidents from left‐turning vehicles would presumably be substantially
                        reduced. There has been no assessment of whether the around‐the‐clock restricted access to
                        Middlefield is necessary, but again, that change has forced traffic onto other very narrow
                        neighborhood streets (e.g., Byron Street, which does not support two‐way traffic when vehicles
                        are parked on the side). Someone leaving Downtown North to access Willow Road/101 now
                        adds trips down side streets to Lytton and then to Middlefield instead of accessing Middlefield
                        directly. During non‐peak commute hours, this extended route – which only adds trips on more
                        side streets and Lytton – is inefficient and not a safety improvement.

Finally, I want to acknowledge that staff are doing great work as they try to deal with many vexing traffic problems and
assess what sometimes amounts to mountains of conflicting feedback. Their jobs are not easy ones and their work is
appreciated. In this instance, I believe that we can and should do more to make the Middlefield corridor both safe and
effective; continuing the pilot and assessing different traffic options and their effects is necessary to strike the right
balance.

Thanks for your consideration of this important issue.
Ryan McCauley




                                                             3
Carnahan, David

From:                Tim Lindholm <timlindholm@gmail.com>
Sent:                Monday, January 14, 2019 11:53 AM
To:                  Council, City
Cc:                  Rius, Rafael; Aggarwal, Ruchika
Subject:             Resident feedback in support of Middlefield Project


Dear Palo Alto Council and Staff,

I would like to express my strong support for the modified configuration for Middlefield North, and hope that it will be
made permanent.

I have first‐hand experience with the results of the prior configuration. Crashes were frequent and most of the
dangerous "T‐Bone" variety. Cars ended up on sidewalks and in yards, as there was nowhere else to go. Cycling was
suicidal. Traffic backed up frequently (some people seem to be forgetting that this is not new). The four‐lane
configuration meant that when it did it was very challenging to get out of my driveway. When traffic wasn't backed up
speeds were dangerously high ‐‐ and statistics showed most crashes happening during these times, not during
congestion.

The new configuration has made life along Middlefield much better. Speeds appear to be down, visibility is improved,
and crashes appear to have stopped. Cyclists now use the road rather than the sidewalk, and pedestrians are using the
new crosswalks. I can get out of my driveway. As a daily commuter on that stretch southbound, I do not perceive an
incremental delays due to congestion or the lane reductions.

Granted, not everything is perfect, but on the balance I think the changes have transformed a road with round the clock,
well‐documented dangerous and troublesome conditions into one that is much better both for drivers and residents. I
urge you to keep the new configuration.

Best wishes,

Tim Lindholm
200 block Middlefield




                                                            4
Carnahan, David

From:                 Ted Davids <tdavids@sonic.net>
Sent:                 Monday, January 14, 2019 2:19 PM
To:                   Council, City; Rius, Rafael; Aggarwal, Ruchika
Subject:              Support of Middlefield traffic alterations


Hi,
I generally approve of all the Middlefield Road traffic flow improvements with the following caveat. Turning left on
Everett at Middlefield requires driving to Lytton and the signage is not clear on that or which cross streets are best for
flow to Lytton.
Thanks,
Ted Davids




                                                               1
Carnahan, David

From:               Lucinda Abbott <lucindawabbott@gmail.com>
Sent:               Monday, January 14, 2019 2:20 PM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            Traffic configuration between University ave and Palo Alto - Menlo Park border on NB Middlefield
                    Rd.


Mayor Filseth and Council Members, I am writing to urge that the City Council not accept the current configuration of
the Middlefield Road North Traffic Study Project. I have found the implementation to be unsafe and to cause
unnecessary delays. I have just been made aware that a procedural consent vote is scheduled for tonight to adopt
what has been implemented.
An excellent summary of the issues by Roy Stehle has been submitted to Council and I agree wholeheartedly with
his analysis. Please delay the vote tonight and re-open public comment on this item.

Yours,
Lucinda Abbott
646 Lincoln Ave.
Palo Alto 94301
650-279-3495




                                                          2
Carnahan, David

From:               Judy Grinberg <judygrin@pacbell.net>
Sent:               Monday, January 14, 2019 2:39 PM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            Consent Motion Re: Middlefield North and




Mayor Filseth and Council Members, I am writing to strongly request that the City Council not accept the Current
Configuration of the Middlefield Road North Traffic Study Project.


Many have written about their concerns and I am in agreement that it is premature to approve this without further
evaluation.


Also, I have a even greater concern about the configuration at Middlefield and Embarcadero. The configuration is so
ineffective that it has created huge traffic problems on Middlefield Road. I live on Middlefield 3/10 of a mile north of
Embarcadero . I often am unable to get out of my driveway because the traffic is backed up almost 1/4 mile north
from Embarcadero for two reasons. One the ineffective left turn lane which people wanting to turn left are unable to
access if there are more than 4 cars in the the single lane and because there is a bus stop yards from the corner of
Embarcadero going south. . When a bus is there no cars can proceed since it is now only one lane going south. This
further holds up traffic, both going south and wanting to turn left onto Embarcadero.


Thanks for hearing this .


Judy Grinberg




                                                           3
Carnahan, David

From:                jan <jan@hamilton.com>
Sent:                Monday, January 14, 2019 5:01 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Support North Middlefield Rd Improvements


Thank you, Council Leaders!

Happy New Year,
Jan

Jan Merryweather
477 Everett Ave
Pal Alto 94301



Sent from my Samsung Galaxy smartphone.




                                                         1
CITY OF
                                                                                         6
PALO
ALTO
TO:           HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

FROM:         JONATHAN LAIT,        INTERIM    DIRECTOR,     PLANNING      AND    COMMUNITY
              ENVIRONMENT
DATE:         JANUARY 14, 2019

SUBJECT:      AGENDA ITEM NUMBER 6: PUBLIC HEARING/ QUASI-JUDICIAL: 3703-3709 El
              Camino Real [18PLN00136]: Recommendation on Applicant's Request for a
              Zone Change to Apply the Affordable Housing (AH) Combining District to the
              Site, as well as Architectural Review to Allow for the Demolition of two Existing
              Retail Buildings and Construction of a 100 Percent Affordable Housing Project.
              The Project Consists of a Four-story Building Containing 59 Residential Units,
              two Levels of Garage Parking, and Associated Site Improvements. The
              Applicant Also Requests a Design Enhancement Exception to Allow for Garage
              and Ground Level Encroachments Into Required Rear and Street Side Yards,
              and a Waiver From Retail Preservation Requirements. Zoning District: CN
              (Neighborhood Commercial). Environmental Assessment: Exempt from the
              Provisions of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) per Guideline
              Section 15194 (Affordable Housing)


Staff recommends that the Conditions of Approval included in the draft Record of Land Use
Action be updated to include the following clarifications, both of which reflect the applicant's
proposal. Recommended text additions are shown in underline format.

COA #4. AFFORDABITY REQUIREMENT AND SPECIAL NEEDS HOUSING UNITS. With the
exception of one manager's unit, all of the units in the project shall be deed-restricted and
made available to individuals making no more than 80% of the area median income (AMI). The
project shall provide no less than 25% of the total dwelling units in the development to
individuals with special needs as defined in Section 51312 of the Health and Safety Code,
including but not limited to individuals with mental, physical, and developmental disabilities.

COA #15. OFF-SITE IMPROVEMENTS: As part ofthis project, the following off-site improvements
shall be required and constructed to the satisfaction of the City prior to final occupancy.
    a. The required 12-foot sidewalk along the El Camino Real frontage shall be paved with city
        staadard sidewalk and free of vertical obstructions with the exception of street trees,
        street furniture, lighting, and other approved furnishings.
 b. Driveway on the alley shall be at sidewalk grade as per Palo Alto Public Works drawing
    120. It may be modified to include curb in lieu of layers if desired. Adjust grading and
    drainage as required.
 c. Modifications or replacement of the curb ramps adjacent to ·project frontage required.
    At a minimum replace the Caltrans Case-C curb ramp with Caltrans Case-A ramp to
    provide a curb-less sidewalk area. Adjust grading and drainage as required .
 d. Modifications to the sidewalk, curb, and gutter on the Wilton Avenue site frontage shall
    not reduce the availability of existing curbside parking.




                                                       Ed Shikada
                                                       City Manager
lanning and Community Environment




                                                                                      2 of 2
                                                                           COUNCIL MEETING

                                                                            ✔
                                                                                    01/14/2019
                                                                                Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                          6
Carnahan, David

From:              Dina Jacobson <dinakj@sbcglobal.net>
Sent:              Wednesday, January 9, 2019 2:45 PM
To:                Council, City
Subject:           Wilton Court Project



Palo Alto needs more affordable housing. The Wilton Court project addresses this need by providing affordable
rental housing along a transportation corridor to people in our community earning between 30 -- 60% of the
area median income. The project will also provide much needed housing for adults with developmental
disabilities, who also live and work in this community.



Palo Alto depends on the people who would qualify for this housing. Providing more affordable housing will not
only help keep our community diverse, but it will also help reduce carbon emissions from cars by locating
housing close to jobs and transportation. Approving this project is a small step in fighting climate change.

Thank you for your leadership.



Sincerely

Dina Jacobson
Santa Clara County




                                                      1
Carnahan, David

From:                    Alex De La Campa <adelacampa@pah.community>
Sent:                    Wednesday, January 9, 2019 6:29 PM
To:                      Council, City
Cc:                      Sheryl Klein
Subject:                 Support for 3703-3709 El Camino Real Affordable housing project




Dear Mayor Filseth and City Council Members,

Thank you for the opportunity to speak on behalf of the residents and workers of the City of Palo Alto. I currently live at the
California Hotel, Which happens to be a resident community professionally managed by Palo Alto Housing Corporation. I
hold a job here in Palo Alto while am currently getting my BA degree at San Jose State University. I am also a veteran of
the United States military, attempting to settle back into a civilian life and unfortunately, in this economy, I am not able to
afford to live in non-subsidized housing.

I am in full support of Palo Alto Housing's new affordable project located at 3703-3709 El Camino Real at Wilton Avenue.
Currently, the project has 59 studio and one-bedroom apartments. Twenty-one apartments will be set aside for adults
with developmental disabilities. These apartments will be for households earning between 30 and 60% of area median
income. The property is on a high quality transit corridor that will make it easy for residents to commute to work or other
services. Adding more affordable housing units will truly help our community!



Thank you for all the support in this project!



Sincerely,

‐‐

ALEXANDER DE LA CAMPA, Intern, Real Estate Development

a: 2595 E. Bayshore Rd. Ste. 200, Palo Alto, CA 94303
p: 650.321.9709 f: 650.321.4341
e: adelacampa@pah.community
w. pah.community




BUILDING STORIES THAT MATTER




                                                               3
Carnahan, David

From:                Austin Middleton <agmsfcc@gmail.com>
Sent:                Wednesday, January 9, 2019 6:35 PM
To:                  Council, City; Filseth, Eric (Internal)
Cc:                  boardchair@pah.community
Subject:             Affordable Housing in Palo Alto
Attachments:         Template - support letter.docx


Please see attached letter of support.
Thank you.




                                                         1
Dear Mayor Filseth,



I'm a resident of Sheridan Apartments in Palo Alto. I feel fortunate to have the opportunity to live in
affordable housing. Without communities like Sheridan, I would not be able to stay in the Palo Alto area.

I encourage you to support the creation of additional affordable housing in Palo Alto. The Wilton Court
project addresses this need by providing affordable rental housing along a transportation corridor to
people in our community earning between 30 -- 60% of the area median income. The project will also
provide much needed housing for adults with developmental disabilities, who also live and work in this
community.

Palo Alto depends on the people who would qualify for this housing. Providing more affordable housing
will not only help keep our community diverse, but it will also help reduce carbon emissions from cars by
locating housing close to jobs and transportation. Approving this project is a small step in fighting climate
change.

Thank you for your leadership.



Sincerely,

Austin Middleton
360 Sheridan Avenue #311
Palo Alto, Ca 94303
Carnahan, David

From:                   Daniel Arroyo <darroyo1@icloud.com>
Sent:                   Wednesday, January 9, 2019 7:01 PM
To:                     Council, City
Cc:                     tonie Arroyo
Subject:                Letter of support for the proposal of Palo Alto Housing


January 10, 2019

Mayor and City Council
via email to: city.council@cityofpaloalto.org
City of Palo Alto
250 Hamilton Avenue
Palo Alto, CA


Dear Mayor and City Council members:

On behalf of Abilities United, I am pleased to provide a letter of support for the proposal of Palo Alto Housing to develop 59 affordable
studio apartments at the intersection of El Camino Real and Wilton Avenue (Wilton Court Apartments), with 21 units subject to a preference
for people with developmental disabilities who receive supportive services from Housing Choices and the San Andreas Regional Center.

The mission of Abilities United, offering people of all ages and abilities educational, therapeutic, recreational, and vocational experiences
to help them lead meaningful lives and resource connections that make it easier for them to lead the lives they chose.

The Wilton Court project addresses a critical need for housing among Palo Alto’s residents with developmental disabilities. The city is
currently home to more than 460 people with developmental disabilities, of whom more than 216 are adults. Of the adult population, only
40 are living in their own apartment, while 11 are living in a community care facility. One hundred sixty-five (165) of Palo Alto’s adults with
developmental disabilities (approximately 76%) are living at home with aging parents. The lack of access to affordable housing is the
primary reason many adults with developmental disabilities continue to live at home with aging parents--long past the time when the adult
is able to and would benefit from living independently, with services provided by San Andreas Regional Center.

By collaborating with Housing Choices and San Andreas Regional Center, Palo Alto Housing’s proposal for Wilton Court aligns with federal
and California priorities to provide housing for people with developmental disabilities in typical community housing, with access to
affordable housing coordinated with access to supportive services.

In conclusion, we urge your support for Palo Alto Housing’s Wilton Court project.

Sincerely,

Daniel & Antoinette Arroyo

Parent of Abilities United member




                                                                      1
Carnahan, David

From:                   LWV of Palo Alto <lwvpaoffice@gmail.com>
Sent:                   Thursday, January 10, 2019 9:33 AM
To:                     Council, City
Subject:                January 14 Agenda Item Re: Wilton Court Project at 3703-3709 El Camino Real
Attachments:            LWVPA-CCLetter-WiltonCourt-1-14-19.pdf


Dear Mayor Filseth and City Council Members,

Attached please find a letter from the League of Women Voters of Palo Alto regarding the Wilton Court Project
at 3703‐3709 El Camino Real for the January 14, 2019 Agenda.

Thank You,

Aisha Piracha-Zakariya
President, LWV Palo Alto

‐‐
League of Women Voters of Palo Alto
3921 E. Bayshore Road
Palo Alto, CA 94303

Phone: (650) 903-0600
Web: www.lwvpaloalto.org
Facebook: www.facebook.com/PaloAltoLeague/
Twitter: www.twitter.com/lwvpaloalto




                                                             1
3921 E. BAYSHORE ROAD, PALO ALTO, CALIFORNIA 94303 - (650) 903-0600 - www.lwvpaloalto.org


January 14, 2019

Palo Alto City Council
250 Hamilton Ave.
Palo Alto, CA 94301

Re: Agenda Item No. :_______; Wilton Court Project at 3703-3709 El Camino Real

Dear Mayor Filseth and City Council Members,

The League of Women Voters of Palo Alto supports City efforts to encourage the development of subsidized
low to moderate and below market rate housing by private non-profit developers. The League also supports
increasing multi-unit housing with access to public transportation along transportation corridors.

For these reasons, we encourage you to accept the findings of the Architectural Review Board and approve the
recommendations in the Staff Report to allow the non-profit Palo Alto Housing (PAH) to develop 59 studio
apartments on this site. All units in the project would be deed-restricted for low and very-low income
individuals including 21 units for individuals with developmental disabilities.

Land appropriate for multi-unit housing is scarce in Palo Alto. This site, although small, is a good one, for it is
on a bus transit corridor; it is near many services; and it is not directly adjacent to single-family homes.

This is a perfect opportunity for you to apply the Affordable Housing Combining District to this site. It is also
appropriate and necessary for you to waive the Retail Preservation Requirements so that this project can be
economically feasible without further impacting the neighborhood with additional retail parking and traffic.
We also encourage you to approve the request for the Design Enhancement Exception as this would allow for
more parking spaces, which would help address the concerns of some neighbors. We also note that PAH has
done much to address these parking and traffic concerns through various measures including a Traffic
Demand Management (TDM) program.

This project will not only provide workforce housing for people we depend on in our community—but it also
will provide otherwise scarce inclusive housing for adults with developmental disabilities, many of whom also
work in this community. In the past, Palo Alto had been a leader in the provision of affordable housing. Now is
the time for the Council to put our City back on that track.


Thank you.




Aisha Piracha-Zakariya
President
League of Women Voters of Palo Alto
Carnahan, David

From:              David Bergen <david.bergen@outlook.com>
Sent:              Thursday, January 10, 2019 1:54 PM
To:                Filseth, Eric (Internal); Council, City
Cc:                David Bergen
Subject:           Support the Wilton Court project


Dear Mayor Filseth and City Council members,


Palo Alto needs more affordable housing. Wilton Court addresses this need by providing affordable housing to
those earning between 30 and 60% of the area median income.


I support Palo Alto Housing's Wilton Court project which will create 59 affordable studio and one bedroom
apartments. The project will also provide much needed housing for adults with developmental disabilities.


Providing more affordable housing will help keep the economic diversity needed for a healthy and thriving city
where people other than the just the very wealthy can live. Thank you for your leadership and support for this
project.


Sincerely,


David Bergen
771 Southampton Drive, Palo Alto
David.Bergen@outlook.com




                                                       1
Carnahan, David

From:               Mary Nemerov <mabunem@gmail.com>
Sent:               Thursday, January 10, 2019 3:31 PM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            Please support Wilton Court Development!


I am a Palo Alto citizen and homeowner and strongly encourage you to support the Wilton Court Development. Our
town needs to aggressively provide more housing for people with a range of incomes and needs. I currently like across
the street from affordable housing units in downtown Palo Alto and couldn't be happier to have those people as my
neighbors.

Best,
Mary Nemerov
Emerson Street


‐‐
Mary Nemerov
mabunem@gmail.com
(203) 915‐5999




                                                           1
Carnahan, David

From:                 Elizabeth Ratner <eratner@pacbell.net>
Sent:                 Thursday, January 10, 2019 3:32 PM
To:                   Filseth, Eric (Internal); Council, City
Subject:              Wilton Court proposal by Palo Alto Housing, January 14



Dear Mayor Filseth,

Palo Alto is in dire need of more affordable housing. The Wilton Court project by the nonprofit Palo Alto Housing
addresses this need by providing affordable rental housing along a transportation corridor to people in our community
earning between 30 -- 60% of the area median income. The project will also provide much needed housing for adults with
developmental disabilities, who also live and work in this community.

Palo Alto depends on the people who would qualify for this housing. They may be teachers, administrative and retail
workers, artists, therapists, and health care workers, to name just some of occupations which pay workers too little to
afford market rate housing in Palo Alto. This proposal will not only help keep our community inclusive and diverse, but it
will also help reduce carbon emissions from cars by locating affordable housing close to jobs and
transportation. Approving this project would also be a small step in fighting climate change.

Thank you for your leadership.

Sincerely,

Lisa Ratner
Carlson Circle
Palo Alto
__._,_.___




                                                            2
Carnahan, David

From:                 Loree Draude <loreedraude@gmail.com>
Sent:                 Thursday, January 10, 2019 9:30 PM
To:                   Council, City
Subject:              Wilton Court development


Hello City Council,

As a Palo Alto resident and home owner, I'm writing in support of the Wilton Court development. Please approve this
project and help to keep economic diversity in Palo Alto.

Thank you,
Loree Draude




                                                          1
Carnahan, David

From:                Cari Costanzo <costanzo@stanford.edu>
Sent:                Thursday, January 10, 2019 9:16 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             support for Wilton Court Development


As a single‐parent educator living on an academic salary, I can scarcely afford housing in this area. I fully support the
Wilton Court Development project, and I would love to know how I can apply for housing there once it is built. Please
keep me in the loop!

Thank you,
Cari Costanzo

_______________________________
Cari Costanzo, PhD
Academic Advising Director, Undergraduate Advising and Research
Lecturer, Department of Anthropology & Thinking Matters
Stanford University
p: 650.723‐0079 | e: costanzo@stanford.edu
To schedule an appointment:
http://www.meetme.so/CariCostanzo
pronouns: she/her




                                                              2
Carnahan, David

From:                 Stefania Pomponi <msstefaniapomponi@gmail.com>
Sent:                 Thursday, January 10, 2019 8:13 PM
To:                   Council, City
Subject:              I support the Ventura neighborhood affordable housing development


Dear Palo Alto City Council,

I urge you to support the affordable housing development planned for the Ventura neighborhood. Our city needs more
affordable housing, not less.

People who serve our community like teachers and public safety workers should be able to live here.

Families who want access to our great schools should be able to live and raise kids here.

I want Palo Alto to reflect the the diversity that makes living in California, and particularly the Bay Area, so great.

Thank you for your consideration.

Sincerely.
Stefania Pomponi
Addison Ave./Professorville




‐‐
-Stefania

Stefania Pomponi




                                                               3
Carnahan, David

From:                            Robert I. Woods <bob.woods@att.net>
Sent:                            Thursday, January 10, 2019 5:22 PM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         Wilton Court Development


Dear City Council Members,

I’ve long been in support of low income housing and am delighted that this project may move forward in Palo
Alto. Please approve this project!

Bob
______________________
Robert I. Woods, Jr.
Principal
Stewart Woods & Associates
1470 Sand Hill Road, #205
Palo Alto, CA 94304


Telephone: 650.473.1465
Cell: 650.213.6111


www.stewartwoodsassociates.com




                                                                   4
Carnahan, David

From:                 Linnea Wickstrom <ljwickstrom@comcast.net>
Sent:                 Friday, January 11, 2019 2:08 PM
To:                   Council, City
Subject:              YES! to Wilton Court




Honorable Mayor and City Council Members,



I urge to to vote YES to Wilton Court ‐ vote yes to the applicant’s proposal for 3703‐3709 ECR. I urge you to approve all the
elements of the Palo Alto Housing proposal in order to make this project possible architecturally and financially.

As the aging parents of a developmentally disabled adult, my husband and I are invested in housing for people like our son. In
a variation on the old real estate slogan, it’s all about housing, housing, housing. Housing is crucial to people like my son who
are learning to live independently. Though my son might never gain a residence in this proposed development, there are
hundreds of Palo Alto residents like him who need a roof. They need a roof close to their support services and to jobs,
shopping, and entertainment: places they can get to using public transit, biking, or walking.

As a 50+ year resident of Palo Alto, I support creating much more housing in Palo Alto – for the missing middle as well as for
low and extremely‐low income people. As the parent of a disabled young adult, I focus on advocating for the intellectually
and developmentally disabled who are much in need of exactly the opportunity that Wilton Court presents: inclusive housing
in their own community and alongside “neuro‐typicals”and “abled.”

Thank you for your vote to bring Wilton Court into being.

Sincerely,

Linnea Wickstrom

Palo Alto

NOTE: Traffic and parking are always a major concern for neighborhoods. Based on many ID/DD people I know, almost none
own cars, have driver’s licenses, or will ever drive. They use public transit, bike, or walk, and some use Outreach‐style
transportation to jobs. In my direct experience with an ID/DD studio apartment house with a parking ratio of .3, there is
adequate parking for a parent visitor or two in addition to the visits by independent living support services staff during the
day. Because studio apartments do not accommodate people who need 24/7 support, the parking spaces are very little used
at night.




                                                                1
Carnahan, David

From:                 Jim Fox <jimafox@pacbell.net>
Sent:                 Friday, January 11, 2019 11:22 AM
To:                   Filseth, Eric (Internal); Council, City
Subject:              Support Wilton Court project


Dear Mayor Filseth,
I support the Wilton Court affordable housing project, and ask you and your fellow City Council members to vote for its
approval.

This project helps to solve the crises in housing, transportation, and labor shortages in Palo Alto by providing new rental
housing for people earning 30 ‐ 60% of the area median income. Providing such new housing will not only ease the
housing shortage in Palo Alto, it will also reduce car trips (as a workers can live closer to work), and so relieve traffic
congestion, and reduce pollution.

For these, and other reasons, I urge you to approve the Wilton Court housing project.

Sincerely,
Jim Fox
Carlson Circle, Palo Alto




                                                                2
Carnahan, David

From:                 Laurie Stein <laurie@pcconsults.com>
Sent:                 Friday, January 11, 2019 11:56 AM
To:                   Filseth, Eric (Internal); Council, City
Subject:              Wilton Court


Dear Mayor Filseth,

 I am writing to you in support of the housing project proposed for Wilton Court. This project fits the need for more
affordable rental housing to people in our community earning between 30 -- 60% of the area median income along a
transportation corridor. My own daughter, a Palo Alto Native, has a B.A. and works in the public sector. She has
relocated to Massachusetts in part because of the lack of affordable housing here. This project will also provide much
needed housing for adults with developmental disabilities, who also live and work in this community.

When I moved here in the 70’s I was proud of living in a cultural and economically diverse area. As housing prices have
gone up, that has disappeared. Palo Alto depends on the people who would qualify for this housing. In addition,
providing more affordable housing will not only help keep our community diverse, but it will also help reduce carbon
emissions from cars by locating housing close to jobs and transportation. Approving this project is a small step in fighting
climate change.

Thank you for your consideration.

Sincerely,

Laurie Stein




                                                                3
Carnahan, David

From:                Sheri Morrison <morrison.sheri@gmail.com>
Sent:                Friday, January 11, 2019 5:05 PM
To:                  Filseth, Eric (Internal); Council, City
Subject:             Wilton Court affordable housing


Dear Mayor Filseth and City Council members,

I support Palo Alto Housing's Wilton Court project which will create 59 affordable studio and one bedroom apartments
for those earning between 30 and 60% of the area median income.

The project will also provide much needed housing for adults with developmental disabilities.

Providing more affordable housing will help keep the community diverse which is an asset to all of us.

Thank you for your leadership and for your consideration of this important issue.

Sincerely,
Sheri Morrison




                                                            4
Carnahan, David

From:               slevy@ccsce.com
Sent:               Saturday, January 12, 2019 11:24 AM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            The Wilton Court Housing Project


Dear Mayor Filseth and Council Members,

I write in support of applying the Overlay ordinance to the project and granting the waivers as
recommended by staff.

As a parent of an adult child who benefited (as did we) from the chance to live in independent but safe
living environment, this project will joy and security to families who waited long for this opportunity.

Moreover, the project will provide affordable living to many low income adults who have also waited for
many years in some cases for this opportunity.

I also understand that the waivers are needed to make the project financially feasible.

This will be a great way to start making progress on our housing goals.

Stephen Levy

365 forest Avenue

Palo Alto




                                                          5
Carnahan, David

From:             Lynnie Melena <lynniemelena@gmail.com>
Sent:             Saturday, January 12, 2019 5:58 PM
To:               Council, City
Subject:          Wilton Court Low Income Housing Project



Dear Councilmembers,

I strongly urge you to approve the various applications for the 59-unit low income
housing project at 3703-3709 El Camino Real. Palo Alto Housing has worked long and
hard to develop this project so that it can be financially feasible, make an important
contribution to affordable housing in Palo Alto and respond to neighborhood concerns. I
have lived a few short blocks from this site for 48 years and can attest to the fact that
retail uses in this location have been marginal at best. Other nearby sites on El Camino
have remained undeveloped or underdeveloped for many years. The retail waiver should
be approved.

Lynnie Melena




                                                    1
Carnahan, David

From:              Eric Rosenblum <mitericr@gmail.com>
Sent:              Sunday, January 13, 2019 2:59 PM
To:                Council, City; Palo Alto Forward Board
Subject:           Palo Alto Forward supports the Wilton Court Project: Please approve


Dear Honorable Mayor and Councilmembers

Happy New Year!

Palo Alto Forward is writing in support of the Wilton Court Project. We agree with the unanimous PTC
recommendation that this is exactly the sort of project for which the Affordable Housing Overlay Zone was
designed, and strongly encourage you to apply it in this case.

As a general matter, is impossible to overstate how rare these types of units are in Palo Alto. Furthermore, this
aligns with Palo Alto’s Comprehensive Plan’s objective of increasing multifamily density along transit corridors.

As a specific matter, both the Affordable Housing Overlay zone application and the requested waiver of the
Groundfloor Retail Protection Ordinance are both warranted. In this case, the groundfloor is intended to be
used for the residential community, including bike storage, mail distribution, etc. These waivers are important
to make the project pencil out. In addition, Palo Alto Housing has invested considerable thought into TDM
measures to minimize disruption due to parking/ traffic creation.

Thank you for taking this final step. This single project is a good start-- we wish that there were more of them!

Sincerely


Eric Rosenblum
President, Palo Alto Forward




                                                         2
Carnahan, David

From:             herb <herb_borock@hotmail.com>
Sent:             Sunday, January 13, 2019 4:06 PM
To:               Council, City; Clerk, City
Subject:          January 14, 2019, City Council Meeting, Item #6: 3703-3709 El Camino Real [18-00136]


Herb Borock
P. O. Box 632
Palo Alto, CA 94302

January 13, 2019

Palo Alto City Council
250 Hamilton Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94301


JANUARY 14, 2019, CITY COUNCIL MEETING, AGENDA ITEM #6
3703-3709 EL CAMINO REAL [18PLN-00136]


Dear City Council:

I support this project provided that the actions of the City Council
explicitly reflect the substantial evidence in the administrative record
that the project is for individuals and families earning no more than 80&
of the County median income (and most likely no more than 60% of the
County median income).

Although, the draft Ordinance makes reference to the draft Record of Land
Use Action that makes reference to a specific set of project plans, I
believe you should also include in your actions language that states that
the project is for individuals and families earning no more than 80% of
the County median income.

The project plans recommended for approval by the Architectural Review
Board (ARB) are for design approval only.

In the absence of appropriate language in the Ordinance and Record of Land
Use Action restricting your approvals to persons with the limited incomes
included in the project description and testimony before the City Council,
the Planning & Transportation Commission, and the Architectural Review
Board, the ownership of the project and its entitlements can be flipped to
a developer who could market the property to those with up to 120% of the
County median income.

Therefore, I urge you to add language to both (1) the proposed Ordinance
to add the Affordable Housing (AH) Combining District to the subject

                                                        3
property, and (2) the proposed Record of Land Use Action for Architectural
Review and Design Enhancement Exception
to make each effective only if the project occupancy is limited to persons
and families earning no more than 80% of the County median income.

I see no reason why the applicant would object to such language.

The following is the substantial evidence that supports my suggestion:

(1) At the City Council public hearing on the Prescreening Application
for “3709 El Camino Real [17PLN-00189]” as recorded in the Final
Transcript, August 28, 2017 City Council meeting at the bottom of Page 17
of 107 at https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/61317:

Danny Ross, Palo Alto Housing Development Manager: Thank you, Candice. We present to you this evening a
proposed affordable housing project of 61 mostly studio apartments with rental rates based on what is
affordable to people at 30-60 percent of area median income with up to 25 percent of those units reserved for
adults with developmental disabilities.
(2) In Attachment B (Applicant Project Description) to the 9/26/2018
Staff Report (ID #9578) to the Planning & Transportation Commission for
“3705 El Camino Real (Wilton Avenue) Rezoning” on Page 10 of 18 at
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/66818:

Our proposal includes the development of 61 units of 100% affordable housing with 58 studios and 3 one-
bedroom apartments (including one manager’s unit). The new units will provide housing for households earning
up to 30 - 60% (possibly up to 80% with 59% averaging) of the Area Median Income with a percentage of the
population targeting households with special needs. Additionally, we propose to set aside 15 units for adults
with developmental disabilities.

(3) At the Planning and Transportation Commission public hearing on the
Application for a zone change for “3703-3709 El Camino Real [18PLN-00136]”
as recorded in the Minutes of the September 26, 2018 Planning &
Transportation Commission meeting in the second paragraph on Page 10 of
206 at https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/67266:

We are here tonight to request to re-zoning of properties that we own at 3703 through 3709 El Camino Real.
We are asking that the two parcels be re-zoned into the Affordable Housing Combining District. Such a zone
change will allow us to finish plans to build an apartment building that will have 65 studio and 1-bedroom
apartments. The building will be 100 percent affordable housing with all residents earning between 30 and 60
percent of area mean income. While the actual building plans are still in the works, we’re hoping that at least
16 of these units will be for adults who are developmentally disabled. Housing Choices, non-profit advocacy
groups, estimates that there are 400 adults with developmental disabilities in Palo Alto alone. Wouldn’t it be
great to build some apartments for them?

(4) In Attachment B (Applicant Project Description) to the 10/4/2018
Staff Report (ID #9423) to the Architectural Review Board for “3705 El
Camino Real: 65 Affordable Units at Wilton Court” on Page 10 of 27 at
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/66966:

Our proposal includes the development of 61 units of 100% affordable housing with 58 studios and 3 one-
bedroom apartments (including one manager’s unit). The new units will provide housing for households earning
                                                        4
up to 30 - 60% (possibly up to 80% with 59% averaging) of the Area Median Income with a percentage of the
population targeting households with special needs. Additionally, we propose to set aside 15 units for adults
with developmental disabilities.

(5) At the first Architectural Review Board public hearing on “3705 El
Camino Real [18PLN-00136]” in the remarks of Adrianne Steichen, Pyatok
Architects as recorded in the Draft Minutes of the October 4, 2018
Architectural Review Board meeting at the top of Page 20 of 54 at
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/67470:

As has been discussed, it's a 100 percent affordable project, up to 25 percent for adults with developmental
disabilities. Certainly under 80 percent, but probably more likely in the 30 to 60 percent AMI. We've talked
about the site area. Current proposal is 59 dwelling units, studios and one-bedrooms, the height varying from 35
feet to 49 feet to the top of the parapets.

(6) At the second Architectural Review Board public hearing on “3705 El
Camino Real [18PLN-00136]” in the remarks of Adrianne Steichen, Pyatok
Architects as recorded in the Draft Minutes of the December 6, 2018
Architectural Review Board meeting at the bottom of Page 16 of 83 at
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/68346:

Again, this project is a 30-60 percent AMI, 100 percent affordable rental project. Up to 25 percent of the units
are targeted to adults with developmental disabilities.

Thank you for your consideration of these comments.

Sincerely

Herb Borock




                                                        5
Carnahan, David

From:                Clerk, City
Sent:                Sunday, January 13, 2019 5:14 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             FW: SV@Home Letter RE: Item 6 - Wilton Court
Attachments:         SVH Letter RE Item 6 - 3705 El Camino Real (Wilton Court) 01-11-2019.pdf




Thanks and have a great day.

B‐

Beth Minor, City Clerk
City of Palo Alto
250 Hamilton Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94301
(650)329‐2379




From: David Meyer <david@siliconvalleyathome.org>
Sent: Friday, January 11, 2019 10:46 AM
To: Filseth, Eric (Internal) <Eric.Filseth@CityofPaloAlto.org>; alison.cormack@cityofpaloalto.org; DuBois, Tom
<Tom.DuBois@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Fine, Adrian <Adrian.Fine@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Kniss, Liz (internal)
<Liz.Kniss@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Kou, Lydia <Lydia.Kou@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Tanaka, Greg
<Greg.Tanaka@CityofPaloAlto.org>
Cc: Clerk, City <city.clerk@cityofpaloalto.org>
Subject: SV@Home Letter RE: Item 6 ‐ Wilton Court

Dear Mayor Filseth, Vice Mayor Fine, and Councilmembers Cormack, Kniss, Kou, and Tanaka:

On behalf of SV@Home and our members, we submit the attached letter in support of the staff recommendations to
approve the application of the Affordable Housing Combining District to the Wilton Court development and adopt the
accompanying measures necessary to enable it to move forward.

You have an opportunity to take decisive action in support of affordable housing in Palo Alto. The City cannot afford to
slow down the construction of this housing in your community. We urge the City Council to move forward without delay
to approve the proposed rezoning and approval of the Wilton Court development.

Sincerely,

David


                                                            1
David Meyer
Director of Strategic Initiatives
david@siliconvalleyathome.org
(408) 462-1572

sv@home
350 W Julian St. #5, San Jose, CA 95110
Website I Facebook I Twitter I LinkedIn I Become a Member!




                                                        2
             Board of Directors
                                      January 11th, 2019
             Ron Gonzales, Chair
             Hispanic Foundation      Honorable Mayor Filseth and Members of the Palo Alto City Council
                 of Silicon Valley
                                      City of Palo Alto
        Janice Jensen, Vice Chair     250 Hamilton Avenue
           Habitat for Humanity       Palo Alto, CA 94301
          East Bay/Silicon Valley

          Kevin Zwick, Treasurer      Dear Mayor Filseth, Vice Mayor Fine, and Councilmembers Cormack, Kniss, Kou, and
      Housing Trust Silicon Valley
                                      Tanaka:
   Kathy Thibodeaux, Secretary
  KM Thibodeaux Consulting LLC
                                      RE: Item 6: 3705 El Camino Real: Apply AH Zoning Overlay and 59 Affordable Units
                     Shiloh Ballard
   Silicon Valley Bicycle Coalition
                                      On behalf of SV@Home and our members, we write today in support of the staff
                Bob Brownstein        recommendations to approve the application of the Affordable Housing Combining
       Working Partnerships USA
                                      District to the Wilton Court development and adopt the accompanying measures
                        Gina Dalma    necessary to enable it to move forward.
        Silicon Valley Community
                       Foundation
                                      Rental prices in Palo Alto are among the highest in the region. As of December 2018,
                     Katie Ferrick    according to Rent Jungle, average monthly rent for a one-bedroom apartment in the
                         LinkedIn
                                      city is $3,121, which represents an 8% increase from last year at this time. The need
                   Amie Fishman       for more affordable housing opportunities in the city is dire.
Non-Profit Housing Association of
             Northern California
                                      Palo Alto Housing’s proposed 100% affordable, 59-unit project is precisely the type
                  Javier Gonzalez
                                      of development the affordable housing overlay zone was adopted to permit and
                          Google
                                      promote. The proposed homes provide deep levels of affordability much-needed in
                Poncho Guevara
                                      Palo Alto. In particular, Wilton Court reserves approximately 25% of the new,
 Sacred Heart Community Service
                                      affordable homes for people with developmental disabilities, an underserved
                       Nathan Ho
                                      population who lack housing choices across the County.
  Silicon Valley Leadership Group

                    Janikke Klem      The City has lined up the tools and policy guidance to make this project possible,
        Technology Credit Union
                                      now it’s time to put them into practice and get housing built. The proposal aligns
                  Jan Lindenthal      with Palo Alto’s affordable housing goals, as made clear in the Comprehensive Plan
                 MidPen Housing
                                      Housing Element and the Housing Work Plan, which was adopted last year. It
                 Jennifer Loving      operationalizes the City’s efforts to remove barriers to building affordable housing,
              Destination: Home
                                      which includes the affordable housing overlay zone.
                   Mary Murtagh
                    EAH Housing       You have an opportunity to take decisive action in support of affordable housing in
                    Chris Neale       Palo Alto. The City cannot afford to slow down the construction of this housing in
            The Core Companies        your community. We urge the City Council to move forward without delay to
                  Andrea Osgood       approve the proposed rezoning and approval of the Wilton Court development.
                   Eden Housing

                     Kelly Snider
          Kelly Snider Consulting     Sincerely,
              Jennifer Van Every
            The Van Every Group

                             Staff    David K Meyer
                 Leslye Corsiglia     Director of Strategic Initiatives
               Executive Director
                                                                                           350 W. Julian Street, Building 5, San José, CA 95110
                                                                           408.780.2261 • www.svathome.org • info@siliconvalleyathome.org
Carnahan, David

From:                     Linda Lingane <linda.lingane@stanford.edu>
Sent:                     Monday, January 14, 2019 9:21 AM
To:                       eric_filseth@cityofpaloalto.org; Council, City
Subject:                  Support for affordable housing



Dear Mayor Filseth:

Palo Alto needs more affordable housing. The Wilton Court project addresses this need by providing
affordable rental housing along a transportation corridor to people in our community earning between
30 -- 60% of the area median income. The project will also provide much needed housing for adults
with developmental disabilities, who also live and work in this community.

Palo Alto depends on the people who would qualify for this housing. Providing more affordable
housing will not only help keep our community diverse, but it will also help reduce carbon emissions
from cars by locating housing close to jobs and transportation. Approving this project is a small step
in fighting climate change.

Thank you for your leadership.

Sincerely,

Linda Lingane


Linda Lingane
Development Coordinator
Medical Center Development

Stanford University
3172 Porter Drive, Suite 210
Palo Alto, CA 94304
(650) 724‐5558
fax: (650) 725‐2450
email: linda.lingane@stanford.edu

        CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail communication and any attachments may contain confidential and privileged
        information for the use of the designated recipients named above. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby
        notified that you have received this communication in error and that any review, disclosure, dissemination, distribution or
        copying of it or its contents is prohibited. If you have received this communication in error, please notify the sender
        immediately by return electronic mail and destroy all copies of this communication and any attachments.


     Please consider the environment before printing this email.




                                                                    1
Carnahan, David

From:                Linda Henigin <linda@brail.org>
Sent:                Sunday, January 13, 2019 10:02 PM
To:                  Filseth, Eric (Internal); Council, City
Subject:             supporting the Wilton Court housing project


Dear Mayor Filseth and City Council members,

I believe the strength of Palo Alto is in its people. We are losing valuable community members because they can't afford
to live here any longer.

To counter this distressing trend, Palo Alto needs to build more affordable housing. The Wilton Court project addresses
this need by providing affordable rental housing along a transportation corridor to people in our community earning
between 30 -- 60% of the area median income. The project will also provide much needed housing for adults with
developmental disabilities, who also live and work in this community. Some of these adults work in our child-care centers,
and we can't afford to lose them. Hiring new staff for lower-income jobs has become quite difficult. We need to provide
housing for people at a price they can afford while working these low-income, yet crucial, jobs.

Palo Alto depends on the people who would qualify for this housing, as I mentioned above. Providing more affordable
housing will not only help keep our community diverse, but it will also help reduce carbon emissions from cars by locating
housing close to jobs and transportation. Approving this project is a small step in fighting climate change.

Thank you for your leadership on this, and many other issues.

Sincerely,
Linda Henigin
Palo Alto CA




                                                             2
Carnahan, David

From:                Mary Ann Michel <maryannm7@gmail.com>
Sent:                Monday, January 14, 2019 10:48 AM
To:                  Filseth, Eric (Internal); Council, City
Subject:             Affordable Housing




Dear Mayor Filseth

Palo Alto needs more affordable housing. The Wilton Court project addresses this need by providing affordable rental
housing along a transportation corridor to people in our community earning between 30 ‐‐ 60% of the area median
income. The project will also provide much needed housing for adults with developmental disabilities, who also live and
work in this community.

Palo Alto depends on the people who would qualify for this housing. Providing more affordable housing will not only
help keep our community diverse, but it will also help reduce carbon emissions from cars by locating housing close to
jobs and transportation. Approving this project is a small step in fighting climate change.

We missed the last opportunity for affordable housing due to the nibby vote let's not let that happen again.

Thank you for your leadership.

Sincerely,

Mary Ann Michel
650 324 7384
850 Webster St. Apt 503
Palo Alto, CA 94301




                                                           1
Carnahan, David

From:             Mary Beth Train <mbt3305@yahoo.com>
Sent:             Monday, January 14, 2019 11:59 AM
To:               Council, City
Subject:          The Wilton Court project - Please approve


Mayor Filseth and city council members --
Please approve the Wilton Court project tonight. Palo Alto has lost so much of its diversity and community
because of the restrictions resulting from high housing prices. This project is not on city streets, but on a
thoroughfare with public transportation and some stores within walking distance. We need more such
projects on or near thoroughfares, like El Camino and Middlefield, so traffic mitigation can be planned.

Thanks for your consideration,
-- Mary Beth Train - owner of 3305 Middlefield, 94306, and Palo Alto resident

Mary Beth Train - Home office phone 650-324-7346 *voice only, not text* -mbt3305@yahoo.com




                                                        1
Carnahan, David

From:                 Daniel Ross-Jones <drj@danielrossjones.com>
Sent:                 Monday, January 14, 2019 1:30 PM
To:                   Filseth, Eric (Internal)
Cc:                   Council, City
Subject:              Palo Alto needs more housing


Dear Mayor Filseth:

Palo Alto needs more housing overall, but most especially affordable housing for its most vulnerable residents who have
contributed to the diverse tapestry of this community for decades. The Wilton Court project addresses this need by
providing affordable rental housing along a transportation corridor to people in our community earning between 30 ‐‐
60% of the area median income. The project will also provide much needed housing for adults with developmental
disabilities, who also live and work in this community.

Palo Alto depends on the people who would qualify for this housing. Providing more affordable housing will not only
help keep our community diverse, but it will also help reduce carbon emissions from cars by locating housing close to
jobs and transportation. Approving this project is a small step in fighting climate change.

Thank you for your leadership.

Sincerely,

Daniel Ross‐Jones




                                                           2
Carnahan, David

From:               Susan Hartzell <hartzellhs@gmail.com>
Sent:               Monday, January 14, 2019 2:27 PM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            Wilton Court Housing


To the members of the City Council—

May I urge you to approve the low‐income housing project on Wilton Court. This is one excellent step toward providing
much needed housing for residents of low incomes and special needs. AND it is close to public transportation, which will
reduce the need for cars. This is a great opportunity for the new Council make a real difference.

Sincerely,
Susan Hartzell


Susan and Harry Hartzell
850 Webster Street Apt 430
Palo Alto, CA 94301




                                                           3
Carnahan, David

From:                Anita Lusebrink <anita@satakenursery.com>
Sent:                Monday, January 14, 2019 3:05 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Wilton Court on Council Agenda tonight

Importance:          High


Dear Palo Alto City Council members,

It is my heartfelt wish that although I will not be able to attend the City Council meeting tonight, I sincerely hope that you
will take my family’s position into consideration in reference to the final approval of the Wilton Court development at 3703-
3709 El Camino Real.

Without PAH and Housing Choices, my niece with            would not be able to live in the Bay Area. She now lives in a
studio apartment in San Jose with her partner. They pay well below market rate, which is wonderful for the both of them,
having severely limited earning power and living mostly on a SSDI check monthly. However, it takes an hour for my niece
to get to Palo Alto to visit her grandmother on the bus (she is not able to drive), and so she rarely does. Also, rental
increases each year are $90/month, and so my niece and her partner are starting to look for something MORE affordable!

The development proposed by Palo Alto Housing called Wilton Court is the first project to ask for the
protection of the Affordable Housing Combining District. Wilton Court is a proposed 65 unit project with
25% of the units set-aside with a preference for people with developmental disabilities. It would be
thrilling to have a development in Palo Alto where my niece could live nearer to her grandmother and
myself, and receive the support (and home-cooked meals!!) whenever that she is low on money or ‘just
needs as hand’.

Let’s make that first step in enacting the new Housing Combining Ordinance at Wilton Court. Palo Alto
Housing is an experienced developer, and a good choice for this first project. I know you will be happy
with choosing to go ahead and give adults with developmental disabilities a chance to be near their family
support teams and still try out that ‘independence component’, which in the long term will be cost-
effective for everyone and help develop more engaged citizens living in Palo Alto!

Thank you again for your consideration.

Anita Lusebrink for the Lusebrink Family

428 Ruthven
Palo Alto, CA 94301




                                                              4
Carnahan, David

From:                Tirumala Ranganath <ranguranganath@gmail.com>
Sent:                Monday, January 14, 2019 3:39 PM
To:                  Council, City
Cc:                  ranguranganath
Subject:             Questions and concerns on the Wilton High Density Housing project


Dear Mayor Filseth and Council members,

       I know that the High Density Housing project is up for discussion for this evening's agenda. I am writing this e‐mail
to you in the hope that traffic concerns of current the residents of Wilton, though not addressed comprehensively to
date can and should be revisited. I am surprised by the fact that an important item of this kind is being brought to the
city Council's attention with such short notice. I was one of the people who got a tour of the Palo Alto Housing
authority's High Density Housing project on Charleston in the later part of last year. That project is unique in that it is
located on a large lot with heritage oak trees that require special consideration. The result, is a property that is
unobtrusive, considering it provides ~ 60 units, with little to no traffic problems to neighbors.

     The proposed project at Wilton and E Camino presents an entirely different scenario and I am writing to express
my serious concern in regards to the lack of consideration to the traffic problems it would create (considering it
proposes to have parking for ~ 40 vehicles).

      I am writing to express my concerns regarding the High density housing project at El Camino Real and Wilton. The
neighborhood’s concerns regarding traffic effects on Wilton as a consequence of this project have been raised and
expressed a number of times. Looking at the architects plan for the site, one needs to question why the parking access is
in the service street, behind the proposed project? This particular placement forces the traffic associated with this
project to dump all the car traffic onto Wilton, a street that is home to apartment complexes that are located close to El
Camino.

If one were to take the existing plan and rotate it by 180 degrees (about an axis that is perpendicular to the ground and
located at the center of the plot), the parking access would now be on El Camino! Any traffic from this property using
Wilton would be minimal and the concerns of the residents would be addressed to a very large extent! With a 20 ft wide
service street separating this project from the apartment complex behind, concerns of daylight plane encroachment
would be minimal.

In the absence of a thorough traffic study and a serious attempt to address concerns of traffic congestion on Wilton, I
am not surprised with the plan that is being pushed. If the planning commission’s intent is to seriously address these
neighborhood concerns, I would urge you to please consider what I am proposing. It also bothers me that, it falls on the
shoulders of a local resident to point out an alternative such as this one, even though there is ostensibly a planning
commission with access to the talents of the city’s transportation commission!

Thank you for listening to me.

Sincerely,

Ranganath (greater Ventura resident)




                                                             1
Carnahan, David

From:                 steven rosenberg <canuck94306@gmail.com>
Sent:                 Monday, January 14, 2019 3:52 PM
To:                   pegrego@gmail.com
Cc:                   Bob Moss; Council, City; Barron Park Association: Miscellaneous
Subject:              Re: [bpa-misc: 8085] Rezoning 3703-09 El Camino



Paul,

The housing is needed, but preserving ground floor retail is also needed. Why can't they do it while
preserving the retail space? As you may have noticed, many of the shops that used to exist locally
are gone, and people need to drive a lot farther to shops in neighboring towns, while sales tax dollars
stop flowing to Palo Alto. This has many downsides for the environment, for the city's finances, for
traffic and for everyone's quality of life, including people who will live in new developments.

On Wed, Jan 9, 2019 at 3:18 PM Paul Gregory <pegrego@gmail.com> wrote:

 Bob,

 The proposed housing for this site is for low income and disabled housing, both of which are desperately needed.

 I don't know about the other businesses there, but Family Fashion Cuts moved across El Camino, to 3666 El Camino
 several years ago. My family and I go there regularly.

 ‐Paul Gregory

 On 1/9/2019 12:41 PM, Robert Moss wrote:
           Dear Mayor Filseth and Council members;                                      Jan. 9, 2019

           I am concerned regarding to reported proposal regarding El Camino rezoning plans. According
           to a notice in the Post Jan. 4 and several to messages on Next Door there will be a proposal on
           the agenda Jan. 14 to rezone 3703-3709 El Camino from CN to residential, and force out local
           ground floor retail businesses in violation of the Comprehensive Plan, El Camino Design
           Guidelines, and formal city policy to preserve retail on El Camino. The four locally owned
           businesses - Treasure Island Stamps, Novelle Bride, Euro market Grocer and Family Fashion
           Cut will be forced out and probably out of business. They will all be missed and are unlikely to
           find replacement locations anywhere nearby.

           The El Camino Design Guidelines that were generated originally by three of us in Barron Park
           over 40 years ago are intended to preserve and enhance local retail stores and retain a walk able
           El Camino streetscape. We also wanted to pacify some of our neighbors that voted against
           merging Barron Park with Palo Alto for fear that the city would be insensitive to our local needs
           and interests. This conversion of local retail to housing with no ground floor retail
           unfortunately confirms those suspicions.

           The CN zone does allow housing on upper floors, and that option should be fully reviewed and
           discussed along with this proposal, ideally by staff and the Planning and Transportation
           Commission interacting with the public.
                                                             1
        There will be many negative impacts of such a conversion. In addition to loss of local
        businesses, it will make El Camino less walkable for residents to shop, and seems to verify
        these old concerns about how our part of town is treated by city hall. There also will be negative
        financial impacts. Sales taxes will be lost when the retail businesses leave. Housing will cost
        the city budget over $625,000/year more for city services than the development will pay in local
        taxes, and the cost will increase over time since residential assessment increases are limited to
        2% by Prop. 13 while expenses will rise more than 2%/year. Some of you may recall former
        city manager Keene stating at the start of the council meeting several years ago that each
        residential unit costs the city $2800 more annually than it pays in local taxes. The current cost
        is higher, probably close to $3000/year/unit. Housing also generates traffic, and even assuming
        above average use of public transit and carpools by new residents at the site trip generation will
        be in the range of 350-400/day on an already congested El Camino.

        I urge the city council not to agree to this zone change now. Send the request to the Planning
        and Transportation Commission for more public review and discussion. Get local
        neighborhood associations such as the Barron Park Association also involved by having staff
        and the proposed developer meet with them and answering questions.

        This issue is too important to just ram through. It needs more careful and extensive review and
        discussion.

        Sincerely, Bob Moss

        ‐‐
        This email list is maintained by the Barron Park Association.
        Join or renew your BPA membership, or get more email list information, at bpapaloalto.org.
        Need to check membership status? Contact barronpark.paloalto@gmail.com.
        Disclaimer: Any viewpoints in this message are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent
        those of the Barron Park Association or the BPA Board.
        ‐‐‐
        You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "Barron Park Association:
        Miscellaneous" group.
        To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to bpa‐
        misc+unsubscribe@googlegroups.com.
        To post to this group, send email to bpa‐misc@googlegroups.com.
        For more options, visit https://groups.google.com/d/optout.
‐‐
This email list is maintained by the Barron Park Association.
Join or renew your BPA membership, or get more email list information, at bpapaloalto.org.
Need to check membership status? Contact barronpark.paloalto@gmail.com.
Disclaimer: Any viewpoints in this message are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent those of the Barron
Park Association or the BPA Board.
‐‐‐
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "Barron Park Association: Miscellaneous"
group.
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to bpa‐
misc+unsubscribe@googlegroups.com.
To post to this group, send email to bpa‐misc@googlegroups.com.
For more options, visit https://groups.google.com/d/optout.


                                                          2
Carnahan, David

From:                 Kyle Morgan <Kyle@streetsteam.org>
Sent:                 Monday, January 14, 2019 4:46 PM
To:                   Council, City
Subject:              In Regards to Agenda Item # 6 - City Council Meeting January 14th, 2019


Good evening,

I am unable to attend the Council meeting this evening but would like to voice my support of the rezoning of retail sites for
affordable housing. It is no secret that affordable housing is a major concern for many in the Bay Area. Many illustrations of
economic growth and housing forecasts have painted a gloomy picture for those living on the fringe. With a hefty goal of 300
units per year, Palo Alto will be making a considerable leap this year, a much needed leap as the last 3 years have seen a
dramatically low output of affordable housing units. The development plans may not appease everyone, and so far they have
not. Both sides provide valuable opinions and concerns regarding the project but one thing should remain true for both sides:
homelessness is an epidemic in the Bay Area and stalling projects like this prevent people just like you and me from living a life
that every person should have; one that’s without housing insecurity.

Though the Downtown Streets Team is a work experience program, we believe housing is an essential resource that no person
should go without. It’s not impossible to help individuals in our program find housing, but it’s a lot more probable that we’ll be
able to help them when new affordable units are built. I am in support of more affordable housing in Palo Alto to support
Palo Alto residents.

Thank you for your time and support,


KYLE MORGAN
PROJECT MANAGER • PALO ALTO
555 Waverley St. • Palo Alto, 94301
Mobile: (408) 309-2151 Main: (408) 899-7350




DIGITAL DASHBOARD • DONATE HERE
CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain
confidential and privileged information. Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are
not the intended recipient, please contact the sender by reply email and destroy all copies of the original messag




                                                                1
                                                                                     COUNCIL MEETING

                                                                                     ✔
                                                                                             01/14/2019
                                                                                         Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                                     7
Carnahan, David

From:                Enrique Ruspini <ruspini@mac.com>
Sent:                Sunday, January 13, 2019 8:17 PM
To:                  Council, City
Cc:                  hellojasleen@yahoo.com
Subject:             Appeal filing: App # 8 / File # 17PLN-00272 / (ID # 9671)


Palo Alto City Council
250 Hamilton Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94301

Ref: Appeal filing: App # 8
     File # 17PLN‐00272
     (ID # 9671)



Dear Palo Alto City Council Members,

We are writing to you in strong support of the appeal of our Carlson Circle neighbors Jasleen and Manoj Raisinghani.

Privacy is an essential characteristic of the Eichler concept. One of the key ideas behind the design of these mid‐Century
homes is the integration of indoor and outdoor spaces into a private continuum. Furthermore, their original concept
strongly emphasized placement of windows so as not to infringe into the privacy of neighboring houses.

We believe that the request of our neighbors is extremely reasonable and we support their appeal.

Sincerely,


Enrique and Susana Ruspini
3720 Carlson Circle
Palo Alto, CA 94306

Tel.: (650) 494‐0862
E‐mail: ruspini@mac.com
        sruspini@mac.com




                                                            1
Carnahan, David

From:                Sandra Park <sandrapark04@yahoo.com>
Sent:                Sunday, January 13, 2019 11:36 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Support of Raisinghani Appeal for PRIVACY - Filing App # 8 File # 17PLN-00272 (ID #9671)


Dear City Council,

As neighbors on Carlson Circle, I would like to support the Raisinghani request to seriously consider amendments to
their immediate neighbor’s proposed construction:

    1. Keep a minimum of 40 foot setback instead of the currently proposed ~29 feet.
    2. Allow full windows only on the front‐face of the 2nd level to open into the street at Redwood Circle.

    3. Move egress windows from the back‐wall to the side‐walls of the room on 2nd level.

    4. Center the 2nd floor volume above the lower level.

It is important to respect the process of review and to maintain neighbor privacy and good community relations.

Thank you for your attention to this matter,
Sandra Park
3700 Carlson Circle
Palo Alto

Sent from my iPhone




                                                            1
Carnahan, David

From:                Roger P <roger.petersen@gmail.com>
Sent:                Sunday, January 13, 2019 11:12 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Eichler Privacy impact -- Redwood/Carlson Circle (# 17PLN-00272)


Dear City Council,

I am writing about a proposed new 2‐story home in our Eichler neighborhood, where the homes have large glass
windows facing the rear yard.

Several neighbors on Carlson Circle will be negatively impacted by this proposed 2‐story at 3743 Redwood Circle.

The city's IR Guidelines devote Chapter 5 to privacy:
       Approval criterion: The size, placement and orientation of second story windows
       and decks shall limit direct sight lines into windows and patios located at the rear and sides of adjacent
       properties in close proximity.
       (see attached diagram from the SF‐IR Chapter 5 ‐‐ similar to proposal)

The R‐1 zoning code describes "detached dwellings with a strong presence of nature and with open area affording
maximum privacy and opportunities for outdoor living and children’s play."

Given this, it is surprising that the 40 foot setback (20+20) was reduced to 29 feet.

Please consider our neighbors' appeal, and suggest adjusting the 2nd story rear‐facing windows and mass to the least‐
impacting locations available.

Thank you for supporting privacy in our neighborhoods!
Sincerely,
Roger Petersen




                                                             2
The diagram above shows a very similar design which does NOT meet guidelines.




                                                         3
Carnahan, David

From:             Manoj R <hellomanoj@yahoo.com>
Sent:             Monday, January 14, 2019 3:10 AM
To:               Council, City; Jasleen Raisinghani
Subject:          Appeal to uphold the privacy of our home (3743 Carlson Circle)
Attachments:      Raisinghani Letter to council - 14Jun2019 - mr3.pdf



Dear respected council members,

Hope you are well. Best wishes for 2019.

Please see the attached letter as an earnest request to uphold our privacy in our Eichler home. We
will be happy to discuss our request for privacy and support it with reasonable points during the
council review on Monday 01/14/2019.

Appreciate your consideration and support for our request.

Warm regards,

Jasleen and Manoj Raisinghani
650 556 3455




                                                        1
From: Jasleen and Manoj Raisinghani
3714 Carlson Circle, Palo Alto CA, 94306

14th January 2019

Re: Appeal to ensure and uphold our privacy in our Eichler home

Hello dear council members,
Congratulations on your election to the Palo Alto council.
Our appeal case is scheduled to be reviewed by the council on Monday 01/16/2019 around 9 pm.
Appeal filing: App # 8
File # 17PLN-00272
(ID # 9671)
This letter is in continuation to the one we had emailed you on Oct 28th 2018.
Our neighbor, Tim Perkins and we are not averse to the construction of the 2nd level by the owners at
3743 Redwood Circle. However, we repeatedly requested the city planning department (Amy French
and Graham Owen) that the 3743 Redwood Circle plans be revised so as to not breach our privacy and
to ensure that we can continue to maintain the quality of our everyday living which we have enjoyed
in our beautiful Eichler community and neighborhood for more than 15 years.
We cherish the inside-out and outside-in Eichler living style!
We request you, the respected council members of Palo Alto to earnestly consider safe-guarding the
privacy of our home along with the privacy needs of our neighbors, Tim Perkins (3712 Carlson) and
Andrea (3710 Carlson and who lives with two small children).


After multiple reviews with Palo Alto city, below are the key outstanding items
We have requested the following updates to the plans as per our last council hearing and prior to that
during the Director’s hearing:

    1. Keep a minimum of 40 feet setback instead of the currently proposed ~29 feet.
            a. The 2nd level of the home facing our backyard (3747 Redwood Circle) and to the right
               side of 3743 Redwood Circle, already has a 40 feet set-back.
            b. Our request and an acceptable compromise is that the 2nd level setback for 3743
               Redwood Circle needs to be at 40 feet, similar to the 2nd level of 3747 Redwood Circle.
    2. Allow full-windows only on the front-face of the 2nd level to open into the street at Redwood
       Circle.
            a. Multiple homes on Carlson Circle with a 2nd level including our own (3714 Carlson
               Circle), have a similar plan where the main and full windows face the street – This allows
               good light and air flow in the home on the 2nd level without encroaching the privacy of
               our neighbors.
    3. Move the glazed egress windows from the back-wall to the side-walls of the room on 2nd level.
            a. Our home has ‘no’ windows on the back-wall of the 2nd level. This guarantees privacy
               for all our neighbors on the back regardless of trees or high bushes.
            b. Many 2 story homes in Palo Alto have one or more smaller horizontal windows which
               are 5 feet above the floor on the back-wall of their 2nd level. Without breaching a
               neighbor’s privacy, these higher placed but smaller sized windows allow good light into
               the room and enough air flow if they can be opened.
    4. Center the 2nd floor building volume above the lower level.
            a. We are unable to reconcile that in the revised plans for 3743 Redwood Circle, the
               proposed 2nd level volume (mass) placement is mainly on one side – that is, the
               majority area of the new 2nd level construction will face our backyard which adversely
               impacts our privacy.
            b. With the current proposed plans, our home (3714 Carlson Circle) takes the biggest brunt
               of this new construction. The natural afternoon light from the west as the sun sets is
               almost completely blocked from reaching our home due to the planned 2nd story
               structure and the planned installation of trees and high bushes.
            c. We believe the 2nd level volume needs to be centered over the lower level. With that:
                     i. The ‘glazed’ egress windows can be installed on the side-walls (left and right vs.
                        the back-wall) of the home.
                    ii. It allows for increased distance from the side neighbors versus having the
                        volume of the 2nd level on any one side as it is now in the plans.
                   iii. Allows the late afternoon natural light to reach our home as it does today.

The outside-in and inside-out feeling of an Eichler
Being a home in an Eichler community, almost the full length of the back-wall of our house opens into
the back-yard. It is a series of full length sliding glass doors. This is our outside-in and inside-out
experience that Eichlers are so well known for in California. These ceiling to floor sliding glass doors
allow the best of light and air to flow into the home. The council and city development office need to
uphold such a rich Palo Alto experience which ensures privacy is not compromised and breached by the
new 2nd story designs.

The trees help however they are not the answer to ensuring privacy
The Eichler IR guidelines recommend that owners ‘must’ plant trees in perpetuity in order to block
anyone on the 2nd level in their house from peeping into another neighbor’s home which may be close
to their backyard. Such a guideline about neighbors having to plant and maintain the trees continues to
put the burden on us. It requires us to check compliance of our neighbors and also file complaints to the
city against our neighbors if the trees are short, die or get bare due to some sickness.
We can avoid such hardship and long term angst by requiring the new construction of the 2nd level to
have at least 40 feet setbacks which give more distance and better potential for privacy.
Privacy is a matter of principle and a community mandate
We urge the Palo Alto city and the council to give privacy and quality of everyday living a much higher
priority to preserve the joy of such classic neighborhoods and communities.
We hope that the city planning and development office uses our recommendations as a ‘model’ for
updating the Eichler guidelines including the Individual Review guidelines and keep privacy and quality
of life among neighbors as their primary focus.
We are interested in nurturing harmony and respect among neighbors. We believe mutual privacy is a
key catalyst for a peaceful neighborhood and in the longer term, a thriving community. Please help
mitigate a situation where our quality of living is interfered with after more than 15 years of being in our
home. We do not accept that our privacy will be breached by the new building plans as proposed by our
neighbor in 3743 Redwood Circle.

View the current situation of our privacy breach - in pictures
Attached are some pictures where you will see first-hand how couple of our neighbors whose homes
face our back-yards breach our privacy currently - by having full view into our homes and private
moments. We are earnestly trying to stop this from happening again and would really appreciate
your consideration.

Looking forward to saying hello to each of you in person.

Best wishes for 2019

Warm regards,

Jasleen and Manoj Raisinghani
650 556 3455
PS: please see 3 pictures as examples and proof points to support our request
Picture 1




Picture 2
Picture 3
Carnahan, David

From:                 Len Filppu <lenfilppu@earthlink.net>
Sent:                 Monday, January 14, 2019 9:10 AM
To:                   Council, City
Subject:              In Support of Raisinghani Appeal Filing App # 8 File # 17PLN-00272 (ID #9671)


Dear City Council Members,
I’m writing in support of Manoj and Jasleen Raisinghani’s appeal filing, App # 8 File # 17PLN‐00272 (ID #9671),
concerning the privacy of their home at 3714 Carlson Circle.

Maintaining personal privacy in our Eichler neighborhoods presents unique challenges that will sometimes require
careful application of planning regulations and voluntary guidelines. This is such a situation.

The Raisinghanis are asking that reasonable considerations be applied to the proposed construction at 3743 Redwood
Circle. They have gone through the proper channels of our City’s planning department, discussed the situation with
several Council members, and it seems to many of us who live in our Eichler neighborhoods that it is imperative that the
City back up its commitment to the new Eichler guidelines with appropriate supportive action.

This issue of second story additions impacting neighbors’ privacy and quality of life is of critical concern to our Eichler
neighborhoods and a growing one throughout Palo Alto. Please take a stand for our neighborhoods by ensuring that
growth and modernization can take place as long as it does not stamp on the toes of the neighbors.

I urge you to support the Raisinghanis, and by extension, all our Eichler and Palo Alto neighborhoods, in their efforts to
protect their privacy and maintain their quality of life.

Sincerely,
‐‐Len
Len Filppu
Fairmeadow Neighborhood




           Virus-free. www.avast.com




                                                               1
Carnahan, David

From:                Moy Eng <moyeng@gmail.com>
Sent:                Monday, January 14, 2019 8:53 AM
To:                  Council, City
Cc:                  Jasleen; Manoj; Tim Perkins
Subject:             proposed construction of the 2nd level by owners of 3743 Redwood Circle, Palo Alto, CA




January 14, 2019

Dear Palo Alto City Council Members,

I request the City Council not approve of the proposed construction of the second level by the owners of 3743 Redwood
Circle.

The critical issue for vote before you is how to preserve the quality of life in a Palo Alto neighborhood, while
encouraging thoughtful, non‐destructive urban development.

Our Redwood Circle neighbor’s proposed plans violate the sense of privacy and quality of life in my neighborhood, and
in particular, my neighbors who are most adversely impacted by 3743 Redwood Circle’s proposed plans: Jasleen and
Manoj Raisinghani and Tim Perkins.

In summary, their proposed 2nd floor plans will significantly affect the following:

       Privacy – 3743 Redwood Circle owners and their visitors/guests will be able to see directly into the rear living
        spaces of Raisinghanis’ and the Perkins’ Eichler homes, in spite of the mature greenery ‐ trees, foliage ‐ and
        fences along the perimeter!
       Sunlight – The proposed height, design, and massing will block the remaining sunlight from the Raisinghanis’
        back yard.

Being in an Eichler community the back walls of their houses open into the backyard and a series of full length sliding
glass doors. This is our outside‐in and inside‐out experience that Eichlers are so well known for. And, the proposed plans
by the 3743 Redwood Circle owners would damage their sense of privacy, sunlight, and thus, quality of life.

After multiple reviews and discussions with the City’s Planning Department, the following are the key outstanding items
that we request the Palo Alto City Council members to consider towards safeguarding the privacy of the Raisinghani
Family and Tim Perkins and his immediate neighbor to the right (Andrea), who has two small children.

    1. Provide a 40 foot setback instead of the current proposed ~29 feet. There is a precedent: 3747 Redwood Circle ‐
       the house next to 3743 Redwood Circle ‐ has a 40 feet set‐back and was built more than 21 years ago.
    2. Center the 2nd floor volume. The proposed 2nd level volume (mass) placement is mainly on one side – that is,
       the majority area of the new 2nd level construction will face the backyards of the Raisinghanis, Perkins, and
       Andrea’s, adversely impacting their privacy. With the current proposed plans, Raisinghanis’ home at 3714
       Carlson Circle takes the biggest brunt of this proposed new construction.
    3. Provide the main windows on the front‐face of the 2nd level so it faces the street. Multiple homes on Carlson
       Circle with a 2nd level, including the Raisinghanis' home at 3714 Carlson Circle, have a similar plan where the
       main windows are facing the street – which allows good light and air flow in the home without encroaching the
       privacy of neighbors.


                                                              2
    4. Have additional egress windows to the side walls with no egress windows on the back‐wall. By centering the
       2nd level volume, the ‘glazed’ egress windows can be on the sides (left and right vs. the back) of the home,
       enabling light and ventilation for the proposed 2nd floor of 3743 Redwood Circle while preserving the privacy of
       their three Carlson Circle neighbors.

I would strongly urge the City Council to vote against the current proposed plans of the 3743 Redwood Circle owners.

Long‐term, I hope the city planning and development office might consider using the aforementioned recommendations
as a ‘model’ for updating the Eichler guidelines including the Individual Review guidelines to keep privacy as the primary
focus. Mutual privacy is a key catalyst for a peaceful neighborhood and longer term thriving community.

Thank you for your consideration.

Respectfully yours,

Moy Eng
3704 Carlson Circle
Palo Alto, CA 94306
650.799.0153



"Promise me you'll always remember: You're braver than you believe, and stronger than you seem, and smarter than you
think." — A. A. Milne




                                                            3
Carnahan, David

From:              ada banks <adabanks_2001@yahoo.com>
Sent:              Monday, January 14, 2019 8:24 AM
To:                Council, City
Subject:           Support of Raisinghani Appeal for PRIVACY - Filing App # 8 File # 17PLN-00272 (ID #9671)



I support Raisinghani Appeal for privacy and quality of life.
Privacy is a very important element in our life and we can not deny it or prevent it. In order to achieve privacy
we need to have bigger distances between homes (larger than setbacks).

 Privacy issues are especially a problems in Eichlers. Nature is brought in through large windows and doors,
giving the feeling of country living but at the same time creating serious privacy issues with neighbors. All
efforts should be made to support Raisinghani's appeal for privacy.

Ada Banks
Los Palos
Palo Alto




                                                         4
Carnahan, David

From:                ivan hom <ihom627@yahoo.com>
Sent:                Monday, January 14, 2019 10:57 AM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Fw: Support of Raisinghani Appeal for Eichler PRIVACY - Filing App # 8 File # 17PLN-00272 (ID #
                     9671)
Attachments:         Raisinghani letter to council (3714 Carlson) - mr1.pdf


Hello City Council

  My name is Ivan Hom and I am an owner of an Eichler in the Fairmeadow Neighborhood. I do not support the building
restrictions listed below, they would effectively prevent ANY potential building of new homes. I urge the council to reject
the current request.

Thanks;
Ivan Hom

----- Forwarded Message -----
From: Jasleen Raisinghani <hellojasleen@yahoo.com>
To: 'Ramji Digumarthi' <rdigumarthi@gmail.com>; william@susmanmusic.com <william@susmanmusic.com>;
Burns@AI.Sri.com <Burns@AI.Sri.com>; carol.chatfield@gmail.com <carol.chatfield@gmail.com>;
tomrichardson87@gmail.com <tomrichardson87@gmail.com>; jacobs_suzanne@yahoo.com
<jacobs_suzanne@yahoo.com>; phinneysilver@sbcglobal.net <phinneysilver@sbcglobal.net>; 'Sippie Dykstra'
<sippied@earthlink.net>; nicholas.catania@gmail.com <nicholas.catania@gmail.com>; tim.perkins@yahoo.com
<tim.perkins@yahoo.com>; brianevans@gmail.com <brianevans@gmail.com>; ruspini@mac.com <ruspini@mac.com>;
'Naveena Bereny (Ramona Cir)' <nbereny@hotmail.com>; naomitemes@gmail.com <naomitemes@gmail.com>;
mtalley@stanford.edu <mtalley@stanford.edu>; mperezconsultant@aol.com <mperezconsultant@aol.com>; 'Ulfar
Erlingsson' <ulfar.erlingsson@gmail.com>; mgoodman@cbnorcal.com <mgoodman@cbnorcal.com>; 'Lucy Filppu'
<loosy@earthlink.net>; Kalinsky@Stanford.edu <Kalinsky@Stanford.edu>; 'Karen Fitzpatrick'
<karenfitzpatrick@mac.com>; 'K.C. Macqueen' <kcmacqueen@gmail.com>; bemacgregor@earthlink.net
<bemacgregor@earthlink.net>; 'Julie C Cardillo' <cardillo@ix.netcom.com>; 'Jim Silver' <jimsilver@sbcglobal.net>; 'ivan
hom' <ihom627@yahoo.com>; 'Beth Whitmore' <whitmore1234@sbcglobal.net>; 'Florence Catania'
<flocatania@gmail.com>; 'Roger P' <roger.petersen@gmail.com>; mila.zelkha@gmail.com <mila.zelkha@gmail.com>;
mbauriedel@ursu.com <mbauriedel@ursu.com>; elizabeth.ratner@gmail.com <elizabeth.ratner@gmail.com>;
jwhamburger@yahoo.com <jwhamburger@yahoo.com>; knightwrite@comcast.net <knightwrite@comcast.net>; 'Raul
Perez' <raulperezdesign@gmail.com>; sruspini@mac.com <sruspini@mac.com>; mdesai70@yahoo.com
<mdesai70@yahoo.com>; elizabetharnow@hotmail.com <elizabetharnow@hotmail.com>; gornish@gmail.com
<gornish@gmail.com>; ddpiersig@aol.com <ddpiersig@aol.com>; bobandsusan@rail.com <bobandsusan@rail.com>;
joyce.farnsworth@gmail.com <joyce.farnsworth@gmail.com>; MartinWMolloy@sbcglobal.net
<MartinWMolloy@sbcglobal.net>; 'Susan Iannucci' <susan@rail.com>; 'Bob Iannucci' <bob@rail.com>;
tatianabliss@hotmail.com <tatianabliss@hotmail.com>; eg2wilson@comcast.net <eg2wilson@comcast.net>;
tehillonette@yahoo.com <tehillonette@yahoo.com>; mary.e.wheeler@gmail.com <mary.e.wheeler@gmail.com>;
michaelmwozniak@gmail.com <michaelmwozniak@gmail.com>; bdendsley@aol.com <bdendsley@aol.com>;
cgardner@stanford.edu <cgardner@stanford.edu>; meenukhetan@hotmail.com <meenukhetan@hotmail.com>;
rlripley@prodigy.net <rlripley@prodigy.net>; 'Ken Kopper' <kkopper@comcast.net>; clay_lambert@sbcglobal.net
<clay_lambert@sbcglobal.net>; fbabian@pacbell.net <fbabian@pacbell.net>; franmavia@yahoo.com
<franmavia@yahoo.com>; christina@rebelsun.com <christina@rebelsun.com>; gordon@rebelsun.com
<gordon@rebelsun.com>; 'Anjan Ghose' <anjanghose@yahoo.com>; 'Manoj R' <hellomanoj@yahoo.com>; 'Jasleen
Raisinghani' <hellojasleen@yahoo.com>; jessicakopper@hotmail.com <jessicakopper@hotmail.com>; 'Paul Ramsbottom'
<pramsbottom@me.com>; billy.riggs@gmail.com <billy.riggs@gmail.com>; gphillips@interorealestate.com
<gphillips@interorealestate.com>; menka.sethi@gmail.com <menka.sethi@gmail.com>; augustine.sterling@gmail.com
<augustine.sterling@gmail.com>; corbett.krys@gmail.com <corbett.krys@gmail.com>;
krishnakumar.mohandos@gmail.com <krishnakumar.mohandos@gmail.com>; 'Kay Evans' <kayevans@gmail.com>;
'Olivia Gorajewski' <olivia.gorajewski@gmail.com>; Daniel.o.anger@gmail.com <Daniel.o.anger@gmail.com>; 'Shounak
Dharap' <shounak.dharap@gmail.com>; 'Chanda Dharap' <chanda_dharap@yahoo.com>; Len Filppu
<lenfilppu@earthlink.net>; 000 Aren Raisinghani <helloaren@gmail.com>

                                                              1
Sent: Sunday, January 13, 2019, 9:17:06 PM PST
Subject: Support of Raisinghani Appeal for Eichler PRIVACY - Filing App # 8 File # 17PLN-00272 (ID #9671)

Hello Everyone,

We are reaching out to you to support our request for privacy and quality of everyday life - and by
extension the privacy of every Echlier home in Palo Alto.

I am attaching our letter to the council members that was sent on Oct 28th which highlights the key
points of concern and the appeal to the council members to address and uphold our privacy.

Here are the 4 key points we requested:

   1. Keep a minimum of 40 foot setback instead of the currently proposed ~29 feet.
   2. Allow full windows only on the front-face of the 2nd level to open into the street at Redwood
      Circle.
   3. Move egress windows from the back-wall to the side-walls of the room on 2nd level.
   4. Center the 2nd floor volume above the lower level.

Appreciate if you can take few minutes to write to the Palo Alto city council urging them to consider
our appeal so we set the correct precedence in our beautiful Eichler neighborhood.

The Council is hearing our case tomorrow (Jan 14th, Monday) after 8:30 pm.

Location:
Council Chambers, Civic Center, 250
Hamilton Avenue, Ground Floor

Group email of the city council - city.council@cityofpaloalto.org

Thank you and hope you will be able to send your thoughts to the council members via email tonight
or latest by tomorrow early morning so the council has the time to review your inputs. In addition,
we would greatly appreciate if you can also join us tomorrow evening at the council hearing at
Hamilton Ave.

Cheers,

Manoj - 650 556 3455
Jasleen - 408 930 5743




                                                          2
Carnahan, David

From:                 John Hamburger <jwhamburger@gmail.com>
Sent:                 Monday, January 14, 2019 11:15 AM
To:                   Council, City
Subject:              Support of Raisinghani Appeal for PRIVACY - Filing App # 8 File # 17PLN-00272 (ID #9671)


Dear City Council,

As a neighbor on Carlson Circle, I strongly support the Raisinghani request to seriously consider amendments to their
immediate neighbor’s proposed construction:

    1.   Keep a minimum of 40 foot setback instead of the currently proposed ~29 feet.
    2.   Allow full windows only on the front‐face of the 2nd level to open into the street at Redwood Circle.
    3.   Move egress windows from the back‐wall to the side‐walls of the room on the 2nd level.
    4.   Center the 2nd floor volume above the lower level.

I appreciate living in this special neighborhood of mid‐century modern homes‐‐many single story. It is important to
respect the process of review and to maintain neighbor privacy and good community relations.

Thank you for your attention,
John Hamburger
3700 Carlson Circle
Palo Alto




                                                             1
Carnahan, David

From:             tim.perkins@yahoo.com
Sent:             Monday, January 14, 2019 1:48 PM
To:               Council, City; Owen, Graham
Subject:          3743 Redwood Circle, Fairmeadow Eichler Neighborhood Design Plans
Attachments:      3743 Redwood Circle CityCouncilLetter.pdf


January 14, 2019

Subject: 3743 Redwood Circle Designs

Dear Members of the Palo Alto City Council,

The owners of 3743 Redwood Circle are to be commended for being receptive
to the feedback of their original non-compatible Eichler neighborhood
design and aligning it with the newly developed guidelines. Much progress
has been made in the redesign but the remaining issues are formidable and
will have impact upon future proposed builds in Eichler neighborhoods.

Being in an Eichler community, the walls of our Eichler homes open into
the back and side yards typically with a series of full-length sliding
glass doors and/or windows. This is our outside-in and inside-out
experience that Eichlers are so well-known for.

Below is a photo from By Dave Weinstein's Eichler Network Director article
"Why Wait 'til It's Too Late? Staving off threatening neighborhood changes
— before the inevitable wake up call hits home." The photo captures a
similar situation with a high level of glass exposure that the
Raisinghanis are confronting in their communications with the City and
owner of 3743 Redwood Circle. Note the view is from the ground level and
not the second story.




                                                      1
     (https://www.eichlernetwork.com/article/why-wait-til-its-too-
     late?page=0,0&utm_source=New%20Subscribers&utm_campaign=7c93aa12b9-BB_1_7_19_new-
     list&utm_medium=email&utm_term=0_29ba75f0fc-7c93aa12b9-99887201)


My home at 3712 Carlson Circle is similarly constructed and has a
significant violation of privacy due to privacy screening failure (it
takes years to regrow a 10+ ft. green hedge that blocks invasive views –
please see the photos in the Raisinghani’s letter to council.

In short, privacy is a profoundly fundamental issue for Eichler
neighborhoods that are facing two-story rebuilds. I am not opposed to two
story homes in Eichler neighborhoods but I do feel it is imperative that
privacy concerns and aesthetic considerations be heavily weighted.

As such, I ask you to consider:

1. Advancing the Eichler Guidelines to the next level.
          a. Re-activate the working group and public engagement to review
          and update the document (e.g., long horizontal windows situated
          above 6 feet)
          b. Place greater emphasis on privacy and aesthetic
          compatibility.

2. Update the planning process to require photos from the viewpoint of the
proposed second story toward all of the adjacent neighbors’ yards as an
aid to support the privacy impact assessment.

3. Explore codification of the guidelines to move them from ‘voluntary’ to
“required.”

In closing I recommend the council reject the existing plans for 3743
Redwood Circle as I believe there are actions that can further mitigate
privacy and the Raisinghani’s other concerns. The Council’s decision will
impact whether the intent of the building plans is consistent with the

                                               2
Eichler Guidelines, or merely is minimally meeting the issues of privacy,
daylight plane, and second story placement on the first story.

Thank you for your consideration. Attached is a PDF version of the letter.

Sincerely,

Tim Perkins




                                     3
Carnahan, David

From:                Gail Price <gail.price3@gmail.com>
Sent:                Monday, January 14, 2019 9:07 PM
To:                  board@pausd.org; jdibrienza@pausd.org; tcollins@pausd.org; mcaswell@pausd.org;
                     kdauber@pausd.org; sdharap@pausd.org; daustin@pausd.org
Cc:                  Joe Simitian; Council, City
Subject:             Affordable Teacher Housing Proposal. January 15, 2019


January 14, 2019

Dear President DiBrienza and Palo Alto School Board Members,

As School Board Members you have many opportunities to make important and meaningful decisions. Supporting
teacher housing is one of those opportunities.

As a former School Board and City Councilmember, the issue of “affordable” workforce housing and options has
surfaced many times over the decades. All types of housing, rental and purchased units, have become more scarce and
extremely expensive.

In my own family, my youngest son, who did a portion of his student teaching at Fletcher Middle School, moved with his
fiancee to Portland, Oregon in June 2018. With teaching and non‐profit jobs, they simply could no longer afford to live in
the mid‐peninsula. They felt to have housing and mobility options they needed to move out of state.

This is one of many examples of what happens to teachers who can’t find housing or who want to have more choices to
build a strong future. Not only do families move further away but PAUSD and other Districts lose dedicated, talented,
and enthusiastic teachers.

This is an opportunity for PAUSD, in partnership with other Districts, to make the proposal a creative and well‐designed
local housing complex for teachers.When this is successful, other Districts may be encouraged to do the same. How
great that would be.

I strongly support the affordable teacher housing proposal; I encourage you to direct staff to support the proposal and
to identify possible funding sources for the PAUSD share (600K) of the total estimated partnership costs.I deeply
appreciate the generous local and regional funds that already have been identified.

Thank you to Supervisor Simitian for bringing this proposal forward and working with many stakeholders and educators
to make this happen.

Sincerely,

Gail A. Price




                                                            1
Carnahan, David

From:              California High-Speed Rail <info@hsr.ca.gov>
Sent:              Thursday, January 10, 2019 1:13 PM
To:                Council, City
Subject:           AMENDED: California High-Speed Rail Board of Directors Agenda for January 15, 2019




                                       To view this email as a web page, go here.




       BOARD AGENDA

                          *** AMENDED JANUARY 10, 2019 ***

                                 BOARD MEETING DETAILS
                                     JANUARY 15, 2019 @ 10:00 AM
                                             Meeting Location
                                  California Secretary of State Auditorium
                                              1500 11th Street
                                           Sacramento, CA 95814



       1. Closed Session Pertaining to Litigation

       The Authority will meet in closed session pursuant to Government Code section
       11126(e)(1)&(2)(A) to confer with counsel with regard to the following litigation:

              John Tos; Quentin Kopp; Town of Atherton; County of Kings; Patricia Louise
               Hogan-Giorni; Anthony Wynne, Community Coalition on High-Speed Rail,



                                                           1
       TRANSDEF; California Rail Foundation v. California High-Speed Rail Authority
       (Sacramento Superior Court Case No. 34-2016-00204740)
      County of Kings v. California High-Speed Rail Authority; (Sacramento Superior
       Court Case No. 34-2014-80001861)

The Authority will meet in closed session pursuant to Government Code section
11126(e)(1)&(2)(B)(i);11126(a)(1).


                Responsible Party:                               Status: --
                    T. Fellenz                                  Duration: 90


PUBLIC COMMENT – APPROXIMATE START TIME 11:30 A.M.
The public comment period for this meeting will take place after the Board reconvenes
from closed session for any public comments on all Agenda and non-Agenda items.
Those persons who wish to comment are required to submit their requests to the
Board Secretary before the start of the meeting by filling in the green cards.
Typically, public comment will be limited to two minutes per person, however the Chair
may decide to shorten or lengthen the public comment periods, at his or her discretion.
Agenda Items may be taken out of order.


2. Consider Approving the Board Meeting Minutes from the December 13, 2018
Board Meeting

              Responsible Party:                               Status: A
                     --                                     Duration: 5 min.



3. Status Update on the High-Speed Rail Authority’s Implementation of the
California State Auditor’s Recommendations

             Responsible Party:                                Status: I
                 M. Rossi                                  Duration: 20 min.



4. 2019 Program Overview

             Responsible Party:                                Status: I
                 J. Hedges                                 Duration: 20 min.




                                            2
* “A” denotes an “Action” item; “I” denotes an “Information” item; “C” denotes “consent”
item.

* The agenda was amended on January 10, 2019. The Closed Session was moved from
agenda item #4 to agenda item #1. The Public Comment Period and open session board
items were reordered to take place after the Board reconvenes from Closed Session.

Reasonable Accommodation for Any Individual


Requests for reasonable accommodations, such as interpreters or assistive listening devices, require at least one week advance notice prior to
the meeting/event. Please submit request to the High-Speed Rail Authority’s Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Branch at (916) 324-1541
or via email at boardmembers@hsr.ca.gov.


Adaptaciones razonables


Las solicitudes de adaptaciones razonables, como intérpretes o dispositivos de audición asistida, requieren al menos una semana de aviso
previo antes de la reunión/evento. Haga su solicitud en la Oficina de Igualdad de Oportunidades en el Empleo (Equal Employment
Opportunity, EEO) de la Autoridad del Sistema Ferroviario de Alta Velocidad al (916) 324-1541 o por correo electrónico a
boardmembers@hsr.ca.gov.


合理便利設施


如需同聲傳譯或助聽設備等合理的便利設施，需至少在會議/活動前一周給出提前通知。請提交申請至高速鐵路管理局的公平就業機會（EEO）
辦公室，電話為(916) 324-1541，或請發送電郵至 boardmembers@hsr.ca.gov.

Mga Makatuwirang Kaluwagan

Ang mga kahilingan para sa makatuwirang kaluwagan, tulad ng tagapagsalin ng wika o kagamitang pantulong sa pagdining, ay
nangangailangan ng isang linggung paunang abiso bago ang pagpupulong/kaganapan. Mangyaring magsumite ng kahilingan sa Sangay ng
Pantay na Pagkakataon sa Trabaho (Equal Employment Opportunity, EEO) ng Awtoridad ng Mabilis na Tren (High-Speed Rail Authority) sa
(916) 324-1541 o sa pamamagitan ng email sa boardmembers@hsr.ca.gov.


합리적인 편의서비스


통역사 또는 청취 지원 장치 등의 합리적인 편의서비스에 대한 요청은 미팅/행사 적어도 1주일 전에 요청해야 합니다. 요청서를 고속철도청
평등한 고용기회(EEO) 지점, (916) 324-1541 또는 이메일boardmembers@hsr.ca.gov.로 보내 주십시오.


                    ่
การอํานวยความสะดวกทีเหมาะสม

                                          ่
หากต ้องการขอร ับการอํานวยความสะดวกทีเหมาะสม       เช่น ล่ามหรืออุปกรณ์ชว่ ยฟัง
ต ้องมีการแจ ้งให ้ทราบล่วงหน้าก่อนการประชุม/การจัดงานอย่างน้อยหนึ่ งสัปดาห ์
โปรดส่งคําขอไปยังสํานักงานสาขาโอกาสการจ ้างงานทีเท่ ่ าทียมกัน (EEO) ของการรถไฟความเร็วสูงทีหมายเลข
                                                                                            ่       (916) 324-1541
หรือผ่านทางอีเมลที่ boardmembers@hsr.ca.gov.


SEE MORE AT WWW.HSR.CA.GOV
California High-Speed Rail Authority
770 L Street, Suite 620
Sacramento, CA 956814
info@hsr.ca.gov
(916) 324-1541




                                This email was sent by: California High-Speed Rail Authority
                                     770 L Street Suite 620, Sacramento, CA, 95814 US

                                                            Privacy Policy

                                                             Unsubscribe


                                                                      3
Carnahan, David

From:                 Edie Keating <edie.keating100@gmail.com>
Sent:                 Monday, January 14, 2019 6:07 PM
To:                   Council, City
Subject:              An opportunity for 100% affordable housing deserves a yes.


Dear City Council ‐ It took many years to create Palo Alto's level of jobs housing imbalance. This is the background we all
live with today, and must not forget. The Palo Alto Housing project you will consider tonight deserves approval. The
main objection I have heard is that it will add to traffic. It's location on El Camino makes the frequent run bus lines 22
and 522 available to residents, and these drop off right at the downtown Palo Alto Caltrain station. It is an excellent
location to entice people to take transit.

And while some local trips will be added, housing that Palo Alto builds on average will mean some decrease in longer
commute trips.

In the balance of importance, for the region's housing crisis, and for the residents of Palo Alto who love their home but
are at risk of being priced out, please say yes to this project.

Sincerely,
Edie Keating
Alma St., Palo Alto




                                                             1
Carnahan, David

From:                Paul Ramsbottom <pramsbottom@me.com>
Sent:                Tuesday, January 15, 2019 3:22 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Appeal filing: App # 8 File # 17PLN-00272 (ID # 9671)


Dear esteemed council members,

We are neighbors on Redwood Circle. This is a letter of support for the Raisinghanis and their key privacy concerns:

Here are the 4 key points:

    1. Keep a minimum of 40 foot setback instead of the currently proposed ~29 feet.

    2. Allow full windows only on the front‐face of the 2nd level to open into the street at Redwood Circle.

    3. Move egress windows from the back‐wall to the side‐walls of the room on 2nd level.

    4. Center the 2nd floor volume above the lower level.

Sincerely,

Paul Ramsbottom & Piyawan Rungsuk
3796 Redwood Circle
Palo Alto
CA 94306




                                                            1
Carnahan, David

From:             JIM POPPY <jamespoppy@comcast.net>
Sent:             Friday, January 11, 2019 1:56 PM
To:               City Mgr; Council, City
Subject:          Castilleja's January 9 Letter to City Manager and City Council



Dear City Council and City Manager,

The letter to you from Castilleja School dated January 9 contains several misleading statements.
Please do not be swayed by their rhetoric.



The proposed expansion is NOT compatible with the neighborhood. Where in Palo Alto is there an
underground garage in an R1 neighborhood?



The garage would require multiple variances, which should tell you right away that this is not a
compliant project or one that would be viable on Embarcadero Road, within a residential
neighborhood. And the design is flawed, with one entrance on the Bryant Bike Boulevard.



The letter mentions a half-acre "park" for residents. The letter fails to mention that right next to it
would be a massive concrete exit to the garage, and the exhaust chimney for the garage would be
located in the "park."



Residents would not use the park. We would rather have homes and trees like there are now.
Castilleja calls it open space, but a garage exit with fumes is not open space.



Castilleja has shown they will avoid the truth in order to get what they want and they do not want to
compromise. The neighbors DO NOT WANT THE GARAGE. We are open to higher enrollment, but
not 540.



Please do not meet privately with the school, or you will also need to hold a study session with
neighbors to combat their misinformation.



Regards,

                                                          1
Jim Poppy

135 Melville Ave.




                    2
Carnahan, David

From:                    Magic <magic@ecomagic.org>
Sent:                    Wednesday, January 9, 2019 1:14 PM
To:                      Council, City
Subject:                 Cell phone equipment standards


Dear Councilmembers,

I'm writing to ask that you reject the staff proposal to make the director of planning responsible for setting standards for
cell phone equipment in public places.

We've already seen how easily staff in earlier decisions imposed obtrusive nuisance equipment upon residents, and how
ARB consideration with opportunity for public testimony prevented a recurrence.

The quality of our community public spaces is too important a matter to be left to the discretion of a city employee
operating without requirement for public oversight.

Thank you for considering these views.

With appreciation,

David Schrom

********** Magic, 1979-2018: thirty-nine years of valuescience leadership ***********

Magic demonstrates how people can address individual, social, and environmental ills
nearer their roots by applying science to discern value more accurately and realize
it more fully.

Enjoy the satisfaction of furthering Magic's work by making one-time or recurring
gifts at http://ecomagic.org/participate.shtml#contribute. Magic is a 501(c)(3) public
charity. Contributions are tax-deductible to the full extent permitted by law.

                    THANK YOU!

www.ecomagic.org -------- (650) 323-7333 --—----- Magic, Box 15894, Stanford, CA 94309

**************************************************************************************




                                                                          1
Carnahan, David

From:                Ann Protter <ann.protter@gmail.com>
Sent:                Thursday, January 10, 2019 5:28 PM
To:                  Council, City; Clerk, City
Cc:                  Architectural Review Board
Subject:             Cell towers




Dear Mayor Filseth, VM Fine, and council members Cormack, DuBois, Kniss, Kou and Tanaka,

Sadly, it seems that Palo Alto's Planning Director, Mr Lait, has approved an above ground design for cell phone
towers. How can this be? Residents are concerned for their safety (including concern about these towers falling during
an earthquake), have clearly expressed their opinion against this, and the Palo Alto ARB recommended the devices be
placed underground.

PLEASE, do NOT vote to let this man be the sole decider in where these devices are placed!!! Allow us citizens the right
to be involved. We should not be excluded ‐‐ it's our city after all ‐‐ and we should not have to beg to be included in
decision making (reminds me of the women's voting suffrage movement I was just reading about today). We are
citizens, don't take away our rights as such.

I ask you to Not approve the ordinance without modification.

 Residents should be able to have their say (as problematic as that can be, we do live in a democracy).



 No one person should have sole authority.




Thank you,

Ann Protter




                                                            1
Carnahan, David

From:             Jeanne Fleming <jfleming@metricus.net>
Sent:             Monday, January 14, 2019 3:07 PM
To:               Carnahan, David
Cc:               Council, City; Architectural Review Board; Planning Commission; Clerk, City
Subject:          City Council consideration of proposed amended Wireless Ordinance



Dear David Carnahan,

I would appreciate it if you would let me know on what date City Council will be considering City
Staff’s proposed amendments to the Wireless Ordinance.

Thank you for your help.

Sincerely,

Jeanne Fleming

Jeanne Fleming
JFleming@Metricus.net
650-325-5151




                                                         1
Carnahan, David

From:                Sharon Parkinson <marcemom47@yahoo.com>
Sent:                Friday, January 11, 2019 3:11 PM
To:                  shuttle; Council, City; City Mgr; Clerk, City
Subject:             Crosstown Shuttle C



The 11:00 Crosstown shuttle Southbound from the Palo Alto Train station to Stevenson
House did NOT operate today Friday, January 11, 2019, leaving several Seniors stranded
along the way. Tose planning on the La Comida lunch program were out of luck as the
next sguttle arrives 20 minutes too late.

The City of Palo Alto is boastful about the shuttle system yet it does not seem to give
the MV Bus Company enough money to operate the shuttle on the schedule provided by
the city.

This was a problem a month or so ago and it seems to be a problem again.
I complain because I use the Shuttle and I bet that most of you DO NOT and therefore
have no idea what it is like to plan a day using public transportation.



I use the Shuttle.

I bet you DO NOT and therefore have no idea how difficult it is to depend on it.



Sharon Parkinson




           Virus-free. www.avast.com




                                                         1
Carnahan, David

From:             Geri <geri@thegrid.net>
Sent:             Monday, January 14, 2019 10:53 PM
To:               Council, City
Subject:          ENJOYING TONIGHTS COUNCIL MEETING on TV.


CONGRATULATIONS to the new MAYOR FILSETH and council members.

Geri McGIlvray

EVERYDAY safety and WALKABILITY, Midtown, Middlefield Road




                                                     1
Carnahan, David

From:             Geri <geri@thegrid.net>
Sent:             Monday, January 14, 2019 11:47 PM
To:               Council, City
Subject:          Everyone should be able to see the clouds and tree tops out of their wkndow!




Sent from my iPhone




                                                        1
Carnahan, David

From:             Annette Rahn <annetterahn@gmail.com>
Sent:             Wednesday, January 9, 2019 7:14 PM
To:               Council, City
Subject:          Flaws in the proposed amendment to Palo Alto's Wireless Ordinance




       Dear Ms. Cormack, Mr. DuBois, Mr. Fine, Mr. Filseth, Ms. Kniss, Ms. Kou, and Mr.
       Tanaka:

       I am writing to ask you to vote against approving as written the amended Wireless
       Ordinance that City Staff is asking you to approve.

       You may believe that the proposed amendments represent only minor adjustments to
       the Ordinance, adjustments required to bring it into compliance with an FCC order that
       goes into effect in mid-January.

       However, the proposed new language will leave City Council and Palo Alto residents
       out of the process that will determine the siting and appearance of cell towers next to
       their homes. By assigning sole authority to the Planning Director to establish aesthetic
       standards, it will deny municipalities the opportunity to resist the dictates of the FCC.

       Unfortunately, the amended Ordinance, in giving the Planning Director the sole authority
       to establish aesthetic standards to replace the City of Palo Alto’s core aesthetic
       standards expressed in Section 18.76.020(d) of the Code with those of his/her own
       devising—does so a) without stating what the standards should be, b) without requiring
       that the Architectural Review Board provide the Planning Director with
       recommendations, and c) without allowing either City Council or residents to voice their
       opinion.

       The amended Ordinance ignores these 2017 ARB guidelines and, as written, empowers
       the Planning Director to establish whatever aesthetic standards he/she chooses, with
       input from no one.

       If this amended Ordinance is approved:

             1. You will be pre-approving, sight unseen, whatever a single City employee
                 wants to do. This person may or may not have any particular qualifications to
                 establish aesthetic standards and is not accountable to voters;

             2. You will be allowing this person to make critical quality-of-life and quality-of
                 neighborhood decisions without any recommendations from the Architectural


                                                       1
          Review Board—i.e., from the people best qualified to establish aesthetic
          standards; and

       3. You will be establishing a process in which Palo Alto residents are given no
          opportunity to participate.

The proposed amended Ordinance establishes a process that is undemocratic.

The standards for the siting and appearance of cell towers near residences has been a
subject of intense debate in Palo Alto for over one and one-half years. City Council has
received numerous emails and phone calls from residents who object to the telecom
companies’ applications to locate ugly, noisy and potentially hazardous ancillary cell
tower equipment aboveground, adjacent to residents’ homes.

Therefore, it is inexplicable why the amended Ordinance you are being asked to
approve makes no provision for residents to have a voice in the appearance, noise
level, or location of the cell towers the telecommunications industry wants to install in
their neighborhoods.

Additionally, there is no provision for either you, our elected representatives on City
Council, or for Palo Alto residents to know what standards the Planning Director has in
mind until after his/her sole authority is established. Is this a fair and open process?

The proposed amended Ordinance ignores the wishes of the Architectural Review
Board and the concerns of the Planning & Transportation Commission and Palo Alto
residents.

The Architectural Review Board, in its public hearings, has repeatedly said that ancillary
cell tower equipment must be installed underground, where it cannot be seen. This is a
clear objective standard.

Two weeks ago, the Planning and Transportation Commission 1) expressed doubts
about the safety of aboveground ancillary cell tower equipment; 2) urged the City to
consider joining dozens of other municipalities plus the League of California Cities (to
which Palo Alto belongs) in suing the FCC; and 3) urged the City to obtain expert legal
advice on the lawfulness of the FCC’s order and on how best to amend Palo Alto’s
Wireless Ordinance. Why are the PTC’s recommendations being ignored?

Additionally, the California Public Utilities Commission, because of the fire hazard utility
poles and aboveground equipment pose, has now begun a process that will lead to
moving most of them underground. Why are these red flags being ignored in Palo
Alto?

 Please, reject the amended Ordinance that City Staff has submitted to you and insist
that it be modified to:


                                              2
   1. Establish the Architectural Review Board, not the Planning Director, as the lead
      in setting standards for the siting and appearance of cell towers;

   2. Establish community meetings allowing residents to ask questions and present
      their ideas about the standards that are being proposed; and

   3. Require City Council’s approval, once these standards have been compiled,
      before they become part of the City’s Wireless Ordinance.

Thank you for your consideration.


Sincerely,

Annette Rahn
650-575-8214




        Virus-free. www.avast.com




                                            3
Carnahan, David

From:               Clerk, City
Sent:               Sunday, January 13, 2019 5:15 PM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            FW: amendment to wireless ordinance would leave residents out




Thanks and have a great day.

B‐

Beth Minor, City Clerk
City of Palo Alto
250 Hamilton Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94301
(650)329‐2379




From: Tina Chow <chow_tina@yahoo.com>
Sent: Thursday, January 10, 2019 5:48 PM
To: Filseth, Eric (Internal) <Eric.Filseth@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Fine, Adrian <Adrian.Fine@CityofPaloAlto.org>;
Alison.Cormack@cityofpaloalto.org; DuBois, Tom <Tom.DuBois@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Kniss, Liz (internal)
<Liz.Kniss@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Kou, Lydia <Lydia.Kou@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Greg Tanaka <greg@gregtanaka.org>
Cc: Architectural Review Board <arb@cityofpaloalto.org>; Clerk, City <city.clerk@cityofpaloalto.org>; Planning
Commission <Planning.Commission@cityofpaloalto.org>
Subject: amendment to wireless ordinance would leave residents out

Dear Ms. Cormack, Mr. DuBois, Mr. Fine, Mr. Filseth, Ms. Kniss, Ms. Kou, and Mr. Tanaka:

I have learned that city staff are asking you to approve an amended Wireless Ordinance that would
give the Planning Director full authority to approve small cell towers in Palo Alto. Please DO NOT
approve this amendment.

I am particularly concerned that with this amendment the residents of Palo Alto are being left out of
this process. Instead of the current ordinance which relies on the ARB architectural review findings,
the amendment replaces this clause with "all objective aesthetic standards published by the Director”.

I learned today that the Planning Director just approved some cell towers without even seeing a photo
of them. These decisions should clearly not be made by one person.

As you all know, the siting of over 150 small cell towers in Palo Alto is a topic of great debate and
concern. The amended ordinance you are being asked to approve makes no provision for residents
                                                         1
to have a say in what the cell towers the telecommunications industry wants to install in their
neighborhoods look like or sound like, or where these towers are to be located.

Please slow down and think about the consequences of these seemingly small changes in the
ordinance. I urge you to vote no.

Instead, please consider residents’ and the PTC’s and ARB’s concerns about the safety and
aesthetics of these cell towers. Please
consider joining the dozens of other municipalities plus the League of California Cities (to which Palo
Alto belongs) in suing the FCC. As you know Congressional representative Anna Eshoo has
challenged the FCC’s assertion that 5G cell tower installations are safe for human health. Finally the
fire hazard from utility poles raises serious questions about the wisdom of adding
additional equipment to them.

Thank you for your consideration. There are many of us in Palo Alto who are willing to help create a
city which is forward thinking in many ways - not just blindly installing more cell towers - but thinking
about how to bring communications to this city safely and wisely. Please, let’s do this right.

Sincerely,

Tina Chow, PhD
Barron Park




                                                    2
Carnahan, David

From:               Jeff Hoel <jeff_hoel@yahoo.com>
Sent:               Tuesday, January 15, 2019 5:06 PM
To:                 UAC
Cc:                 Hoel, Jeff (external); Council, City
Subject:            Fw: CAC application // CACBIO


Commissioners,

On 01-09-19, Commissioner Segal expressed an interest in who's serving on the Citizens Advisory Committee on FTTP &
Wireless (CAC) and what their backgrounds and credentials are. (Thanks for asking.)

Within this "Letters From Citizens" document (on pages 42-46) is a copy of my 2016 application to CAC.
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/53482

Note that the questions about conflict of interest (pages 45-47) were asked in a separate form sent to applicants.

Thanks.


Jeff




                                                            1
Carnahan, David

From:                Clerk, City
Sent:                Sunday, January 13, 2019 5:15 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             FW: Cell towers




Thanks and have a great day.

B‐

Beth Minor, City Clerk
City of Palo Alto
250 Hamilton Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94301
(650)329‐2379




From: Ann Protter <ann.protter@gmail.com>
Sent: Thursday, January 10, 2019 5:28 PM
To: Council, City <city.council@cityofpaloalto.org>; Clerk, City <city.clerk@cityofpaloalto.org>
Cc: Architectural Review Board <arb@cityofpaloalto.org>
Subject: Cell towers


Dear Mayor Filseth, VM Fine, and council members Cormack, DuBois, Kniss, Kou and Tanaka,

Sadly, it seems that Palo Alto's Planning Director, Mr Lait, has approved an above ground design for cell phone
towers. How can this be? Residents are concerned for their safety (including concern about these towers falling during
an earthquake), have clearly expressed their opinion against this, and the Palo Alto ARB recommended the devices be
placed underground.

PLEASE, do NOT vote to let this man be the sole decider in where these devices are placed!!! Allow us citizens the right
to be involved. We should not be excluded ‐‐ it's our city after all ‐‐ and we should not have to beg to be included in
decision making (reminds me of the women's voting suffrage movement I was just reading about today). We are
citizens, don't take away our rights as such.

I ask you to Not approve the ordinance without modification.

 Residents should be able to have their say (as problematic as that can be, we do live in a democracy).



                                                             1
 No one person should have sole authority.



Thank you,

Ann Protter




                                             2
Carnahan, David

From:               Clerk, City
Sent:               Monday, January 14, 2019 7:40 AM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            FW: Cell Towers




Thanks and have a great day.

B‐

Beth Minor, City Clerk
City of Palo Alto
250 Hamilton Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94301
(650)329‐2379




From: Luce, Gwen <GLuce@cbnorcal.com>
Sent: Sunday, January 13, 2019 11:57 PM
To: Filseth, Eric (Internal) <Eric.Filseth@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Fine, Adrian <Adrian.Fine@CityofPaloAlto.org>;
Alison.Cormack@cityofpaloalto.org; DuBois, Tom <Tom.DuBois@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Kniss, Liz (internal)
<Liz.Kniss@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Kou, Lydia <Lydia.Kou@CityofPaloAlto.org>; 'Greg Tanaka' <greg@gregtanaka.org>;
Architectural Review Board <arb@cityofpaloalto.org>; Planning Commission
<Planning.Commission@cityofpaloalto.org>; Clerk, City <city.clerk@cityofpaloalto.org>
Subject: Cell Towers


                                                        Gwen Luce, Realtor®
                                                                    DRE License #00879652
                                                                    Direct Line: 650.566.5343
                                                                        gluce@cbnorcal.com




     Dear Eric Filseth, Adrian Fine, Alison Cormac, Tom Dubois, Liz Kniss, Lydia Kou, Greg Tanaka
     Architectural Review Board, Planning Commission, City Clerk:



                                                         1
   Please do not approve the amended Ordinance without modifying it a) to make the Architectural Review
   Board the lead in developing the new standards, not the Planning Director and b) to make provisions for
   the process to be democratic (e.g., to include opportunities for residents to express their views about the
   proposed standards.)

   Sincerely,
   Gwen Luce
   .
   Gwen Luce
   650-566-5343
   gluce@cbnorcal.com
   www.gwenluce.com

  Powered by e-Letterhead




Gwen Luce
650-566-5343
gluce@cbnorcal.com
www.gwenluce.com




*Wire Fraud is Real*. Before wiring any money, call the intended recipient at a number you know is valid to
confirm the instructions. Additionally, please note that the sender does not have authority to bind a party to a
real estate contract via written or verbal communication.




                                                        2
Carnahan, David

From:                Clerk, City
Sent:                Sunday, January 13, 2019 5:15 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             FW: cell towers




Thanks and have a great day.

B‐

Beth Minor, City Clerk
City of Palo Alto
250 Hamilton Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94301
(650)329‐2379




From: Carol Heermance <cheermance@gmail.com>
Sent: Thursday, January 10, 2019 7:30 PM
To: Filseth, Eric (Internal) <Eric.Filseth@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Fine, Adrian <Adrian.Fine@CityofPaloAlto.org>;
Alison.Cormack@cityofpaloalto.org; DuBois, Tom <Tom.DuBois@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Kniss, Liz (internal)
<Liz.Kniss@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Kou, Lydia <Lydia.Kou@CityofPaloAlto.org>; greg@gregtanaka.org
Cc: Architectural Review Board <arb@cityofpaloalto.org>; Planning Commission
<Planning.Commission@cityofpaloalto.org>; Clerk, City <city.clerk@cityofpaloalto.org>
Subject: cell towers

Dear Mayor Filseth, Vice Mayor Fine, Ms. Cormack, Mr. DuBois, Ms. Kniss, Ms. Kou and Mr. Tanaka,

Please be advised that there are many Palo Alto residents that are concerned about the direction that
the city is taking regarding the installation of cell towers in our neighborhoods. The City Staff is asking
you to sign off on an amended Wireless Ordinance. These proposed amendments sideline any input
from residents and allow a single staff person to ok new cell installations. In December we
were relieved when the city decided to accept the recommendations of the ARB regarding placement
of cell towers. However, in the past few days, it appears that only one person on staff is now solely
responsible for cell tower placement. Mr Lait has apparently already ignored the ARB
recommendation to locate the Crown Castle/Verizon towers underground in the University
South neighborhood and has instead approved the Crown Castle cell towers above ground.

We have included the following emails dated January 7 and January 10, from Jean Fleming, that
articulate our concerns.

                                                            1
Thank you for your consideration.

Richard and Carol Heermance


Letter from Jean Fleming dated January 7:

Dear Ms. Cormack, Mr. DuBois, Mr. Fine, Mr. Filseth, Ms. Kniss, Ms. Kou, and Mr. Tanaka:

I am writing to ask you to vote against approving as written the amended Wireless Ordinance that City Staff is asking you to sign off on.

The Planning Director and the City Attorney may tell you that the proposed amendments represent only minor adjustments to the
Ordinance, adjustments required to bring it into compliance with an FCC order that goes into effect in mid-January.

In fact, however, the proposed new language leaves City Council and the people of Palo Alto out of the process that will determine the
siting and appearance of cell towers next to residents’ homes. How? By assigning solely to the Planning Director the authority to
establish aesthetic standards—and it is in the establishment of aesthetic standards that municipalities have an opportunity to resist the
dictates of the FCC. (Remember President Trump has stacked the FCC with champions of the telecommunications industry—e.g., the
new Commissioner was formerly the Associate General Counsel at Verizon).

Unfortunately, the amended Ordinance, in giving the Planning Director the sole authority to establish aesthetic standards—more
specifically, the sole authority to replace the City of Palo Alto’s core aesthetic standards expressed in Section 18.76.020(d) of the Code
with those of his own devising—does so a) without stating what the standards should be, b) without requiring that the Architectural
Review Board provide the Planning Director with recommendations, and c) without giving either City Council or residents any say in the
matter.

You may recall that, in 2017, the ARB put forward a thoughtful set of guidelines that should serve as the starting point for any aesthetic
standards the City establishes vis a vis cell towers. But the amended Ordinance ignores these guidelines and, as written, empowers
the Planning Director to establish whatever aesthetic standards he chooses, with input from no one.

The fact is, if you approve this amended Ordinance:

         1. You will be pre-approving, sight unseen, whatever a single City employee—an employee who has no particular
             qualifications to establish aesthetic standards and who is not accountable to voters—wants to do;

         2. You will be allowing him to make critical quality-of-life and quality-of neighborhood decisions without any
             recommendations from the Architectural Review Board—i.e., from the people bestqualified to establish aesthetic
             standards; and

         3. You will be setting in motion a process in which the residents of Palo Alto are given no opportunity to participate.


The proposed amended Ordinance establishes a process that is undemocratic.

The standards for the siting and appearance of cell towers next to residences has been a subject of intense debate in Palo Alto for over
one and one-half years. As you know, City Council has received countless emails and phone calls from residents who object to the
telecom companies’ applications to locate ugly, noisy and potentially hazardous ancillary cell tower equipment aboveground, adjacent
to residents’ homes. Dozens of residents have attended the Architectural Review Board’s public hearings on proposed cell towers, and
dozens have stayed late into the night at City Council meetings to express their concerns about the siting of this equipment and about
the language of the Wireless Ordinance. Plus, the press has been closely following this story, along with the related story of the
California Fair Political Practices Commission’s investigation of now former Chief Technology Officer Jonathan Reichental, with respect
to violations of gift and conflict of interest laws involving the telecommunications industry.

In light of all this, it is unfathomable why the amended Ordinance you are being asked to approve makes no provision for residents to
have a say in what the cell towers the telecommunications industry wants to install in their neighborhoods look like or sound like, or
where these towers are to be located.

                                                                     2
Moreover, the amended Ordinance makes no provision for either you, our elected representatives on City Council, or for we Palo Alto
residents to even know what standards the Planning Director has in mind until after you have approved his sole authority to establish
them. How can this be right?



The proposed amended Ordinance ignores the wishes of the Architectural Review Board and the concerns of the Planning &
Transportation Commission and the people of Palo Alto.

The Architectural Review Board, in its public hearings, has repeatedly said that ancillary cell tower equipment must be installed
underground, where it can’t be seen. What could be a clearer objective standard?

Why doesn’t the amended Ordinance you are being asked to approve state, at least in general terms, the aesthetic standards the
Planning Director wishes to incorporate into the Wireless Ordinance? After all, Staff has had since October to prepare the Ordinance.

Only two weeks ago, the Planning and Transportation Commission 1) expressed grave doubts about the safety of aboveground
ancillary cell tower equipment; 2) urged the City to consider joining dozens of other municipalities plus the League of California Cities
(to which Palo Alto belongs) in suing the FCC; and 3) urged the City to obtain expert legal advice on the lawfulness of the FCC’s order
and on how best to amend Palo Alto’s Wireless Ordinance. Why are the PTC’s recommendations being ignored?

Moreover, our Congressional representative, Anna Eshoo has, with Senator Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut, challenged the FCC’s
assertion that 5G cell tower installations—which all of the proposed cell towers in Palo Alto will accommodate—pose no threat to
human health. In addition, the California Public Utilities Commission, because of the fire hazard utility poles and aboveground
equipment pose, has now begun a process that will lead to moving most of them underground. Why are these red flags being ignored
in Palo Alto?



Please, reject the amended Ordinance that City Staff has submitted to you and insist that it be modified to:

    1. Establish the Architectural Review Board—not the Planning Director—as the lead in setting standards for the siting and
         appearance of cell towers;

    2. Establish that there be a series of community meetings so that residents may learn what standards are being proposed, ask
         questions of ARB members and City Staff, and offer their own ideas for consideration; and

    3. Require that, once these standards have been assembled, City Council must approve them before they become part of the
         City’s Wireless Ordinance.

To remind you: The 12/12/18 Staff Report notes that cities may take up to 180 days following the effective date of the FCC regulations
to develop and publish their aesthetic standards. There is no need to rush.

For your convenience, I have attached a comparison of the language in the current Wireless Ordinance with respect to the aesthetic
standards for Tier 3 cell towers (here, the City’s core aesthetic standards—i.e., “architectural review findings”—expressed in Section
18.76.020(d) of the Municipal Code) with the proposed amended language for aesthetic standards for Tier 3 cell towers.

Thank you for your consideration. And please let me know if you have any questions—questions, for example, about how experts in
telecommunications law are advising other cities to respond to the FCC’s order.

Sincerely,

Jeanne Fleming


Jeanne Fleming, PhD
JFleming@Metricus
650-325-5151




                                                                    3
Letter from Jean Fleming dated January 10

Dear Mayor Filseth, Vice Mayor Fine, Ms. Cormack, Mr. DuBois, Ms. Kniss, Ms. Kou and Mr. Tanaka,

I have just learned that Palo Alto’s Planning Director has rejected the Architectural Review Board’s December recommendation to
locate underground the cell towers Crown Castle/Verizon has applied to install in the University South neighborhood. Instead, Mr. Lait
has approved a Crown Castle streetlight pole-mounted cell tower design—a design which he apparently has never seen a photograph
of, much less a mock-up or actual installation.

It was in asking City Staff for a photograph of the towers Mr. Lait approved that I discovered no photo exists.

Planning Director Lait, who is not an architect, has thrown out the recommendations of Palo Alto’s Architectural Review Board and
approved Crown Castle’s cell towers without even seeing what they actually look like.

As you know, these irresponsible actions come at a time when City Staff is asking City Council to approve an amended Wireless
Ordinance that gives the Planning Director sole authority to establish aesthetic standards for the over 150 so-called small cell node cell
towers that telecom companies have already applied to locate in close proximity to residents’ homes here.

Respectfully, I ask you to please reject the amended Ordinance that City Staff has submitted to you and insist that it be modified to:

    1. Establish the Architectural Review Board—not the Planning Director—as the lead in setting standards for the siting and
         appearance of cell towers;

    2. Establish that there be a series of community meetings so that residents may learn what standards are being proposed, ask
         questions of ARB members and City Staff, and offer their own ideas for consideration; and

    3. Require that, once these standards have been assembled, City Council must approve them before they become part of the
         City’s Wireless Ordinance.

I ask you as well to please direct Planning Director Lait to withdraw his decision to approve the Crown Castle/Verizon University South
proposed cell tower installations, to withdraw it until he can provide the citizens of Palo Alto with photographs and a mock-up installation
that show what he has approved actually looks like.

Sincerely,

Jeanne Fleming

Jeanne Fleming, PhD
JFleming@Metricus.net
650-325-5151




                                                                     4
Carnahan, David

From:               herb <herb_borock@hotmail.com>
Sent:               Thursday, January 10, 2019 11:47 AM
To:                 Council, City; Clerk, City
Subject:            Fw: January 9, 2019, Utilities Advisory Commission Meeting, Item #2: Staff Request for Feedback




From: herb <herb_borock@hotmail.com>
Sent: Wednesday, January 9, 2019 9:49 PM
To: uac@cityofpaloalto.org
Subject: January 9, 2019, Utilities Advisory Commission Meeting, Item #2: Staff Request for Feedback

Herb Borock
P. O. Box 632
Palo Alto, CA 94302

January 9, 2019

Utilities Advisory Commission
City of Palo Alto
250 Hamilton Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94301


JANUARY 9, 2019, UTILITIES ADVISORY COMMISSION MEETING, AGENDA ITEM #2
STAFF REQUEST FOR FEEDBACK


Dear Utilities Advisory Commission:

The purpose of the Utilities Advisory Commission as defined by Palo Alto
Municipal Code Section 2.23.050 is to advise the City Council.
(A copy of PAMC Section 2.23.050 appears at the end of this letter.)

When staff wants to place a proposal on a future City Council agenda about a
matter in the UAC's purview, such as the subject of this agenda item, the
appropriate thing to do is to place an action item on the UAC agenda to permit
the UAC to make a recommendation about staff's proposal.

It is not the purpose of the UAC to give feedback to staff to permit staff to
make a recommendation to the City Council based on the UAC's feedback to
staff. Instead it is staff's obligation to bring its proposal on a timely basis
as part of an action item on the UAC agenda to permit the UAC to make a
recommendation to the City Council about staff's proposal.

The only feedback you should give staff on its proposal at this time                                   is when you
determine the agenda items for your next meeting that should include                                   your
recommendation on staff's proposal for the Fiber-to-the-Node Request                                   for
Proposal (RFP 171422) that received bid responses over six month ago                                   by the RFP
deadline of June 28, 2018.
                                                           1
The agenda item description should be written to provide the UAC complete freedom
of action on its recommendation, rather than in a way to constrain the UAC as to
the recommendation it could make.

The City Council has the sole authority to either award a contract for RFP 171422
or to reject all bids, and requires the UAC recommendation before the Council can
act.

At the same time that staff places RFP 117422 on your agenda as an action item,
it can also place on the same agenda an action item on the other subjects of this
meeting's agenda item.

The most recent meeting of the Fiber and Wireless Citizen Advisory Committee
(CAC) was held on October 25, 2018, that was during the normal five-week period
that staff was preparing its staff report for the November 19, 2018, City Council
action on the Smart Grid Assessment and Technology Implementation plan.

City staff supporting the CAC at that time included Chief Information Officer
Jonathan Reichental and Project Manager Todd Henderson from the Information
Technology Department and David Yuan, Jim Fleming, and Josh Wallace from the
Utilities Department. Dean Batchelor from the Utilities Department sometimes
attended parts of CAC meetings.

David Yuan and Todd Henderson were both at the October 25, 2018, CAC meeting,
while Dean Batchelor was at most of the meeting. The other staff were absent.

Henderson told the CAC it could not look at the responses to RFP 117422 because
the attorney's were still working on the RFP and nobody on the CAC could look at
the responses to the RFP until staff made a recommendation.

None of the staff at that CAC meeting told the CAC that the Utilities Department
was in the process of writing a staff report to the Council that if approved
would lead staff to recommend that the CAC be dissolved or that a new RFP would
have to be issued, although Henderson may not have known about the pending
recommendation since he is in a different department.

The fact that staff has not provided relevant information to the CAC on a timely
basis leads me to question whether staff's current proposal is really about a new
bidding process for Fiber-to-the-Node (FTTN), or whether staff has
always intended to build and pay for a FTTN system for Google's benefit so that
Google can then use the FTTN system paid for by the City of Palo Alto for a
Google wireless-to- the-home-system.

My concern about the City building and paying for a FTTN system for Google's
benefit is based on the following comments at CAC and UAC meetings.

At the April 17, 2017, CAC meeting, after Google had stopped its work on fiber
and was already considering wireless instead, Jonathan Reichental said he wanted
to partner with Google and be the first in line.

At the July 20, 2017, CAC meeting, Jonathan Reichental said that going forward
Google will be all wireless based.



                                        2
In the verbatim transcript of the April 5, 2017, Utilities Advisory
Commission meeting discussion about FTTP & Wireless prepared by Jeff Hoel,
the following comments about Fiber to the Node and Wireless were made by
Jonathan Reichental and Jim Fleming at the time points indicated in the
transcript:

“1:56:36:

“Jonathan Reichental: So, the bet, I would say, is that we’re going to
have more interest if we have nodes – the neighborhood nodes in place, and
then either a home owner wants to pay for that wireless connection, or
they want their premium fiber--I suppose you could offer luxury and
premium or something--or a third-party partner would come in and say,
we’ll do the--this wireless to every house.

“1:57:00:

“Jim Fleming: And that’s the direction that Google is going in. I mean,
if Google Fiber has a future, it won’t be running fiber all the way to the
home. It will be to a neighborhood access point, and from there, it will
be a hop …”

Those comments (with Jeff Hoel’s commentary interposed) appear in the
Public Letters to the Council prepared for the May 15, 2017, City Council
meeting on page 113 of 125 at:
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/57737.

Palo Alto Municipal Code Section 2.23.0502.23.050
2.23.050 Purposes and duties.
  (a) The purpose of the utilities advisory commission shall be to advise the city council on present and
prospective long-range planning and policy and major program and project matters relating to the electric
utility, gas utility, water utility, wastewater collection utility, fiber optics utility and recycled water matters,
excluding daily operations.
  (b) The utilities advisory commission shall have the following duties:
  (1) Advise the city council on long-range planning and policy matters pertaining to:
  (A) Development of the electric utility, gas utility, water utility, wastewater collection utility, fiber optics
utility, and the recycled water resource;
  (B) Joint action projects with other public or private entities which involve, affect or impact the electric
utility, gas utility, water utility, wastewater collection utility, fiber optics utility, and the recycled water
resource;
  (C) Environmental aspects and attributes of the electric utility, gas utility, water utility, wastewater collection
utility, fiber optics utility, and the recycled water resource;
  (D) Water and energy conservation, energy efficiency, and demand side management; and
  (E) Recycled water matters not otherwise addressed in the preceding subparagraphs (A) through (D);

                                                            3
  (2) Review and make recommendations to the city council on the consistency with adopted and approved
plans, policies, and programs of any major electric utility, gas utility, water utility, wastewater collection utility,
fiber optics utility, or the recycled water resource;
 (3) Formulate and review legislative proposals regarding the electric utility, gas utility, water utility,
wastewater collection utility, fiber optics utility and the recycled water resource, to which the city is a party, in
which the city has an interest, or by which the city may be affected;
  (4) Review the electric utility, gas utility, water utility, wastewater collection utility, and fiber optics utility
capital improvement programs, operating budgets and related reserves, and rates, and the recycled water
program, budget, and rate, and thereafter forward any comments and recommendations to the finance
committee or its successor;
  (5) Provide advice upon such other matters as the city council may from time to time assign.
  The utilities advisory commission shall not have the power or authority to cause the expenditure of city funds
or to bind the city to any written, oral or implied contract.
  (c) The utilities advisory commission may, subject to its city council-approved bylaws and at the discretion
of the city council, foster and facilitate engagement with the general public, not excluding representatives of
commerce and industry, in regard to the utility matters referred to in subsections (b)(1)(A) through (E).
(Ord. 5096 § 1, 2010: Ord. 4938 § 1, 2007: Ord. 4027 § 1 (part), 1991)
Thank you for your consideration of these comments.
Sincerely,
Herb Borock




                                                           4
Carnahan, David

From:                Clerk, City
Sent:                Sunday, January 13, 2019 5:13 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             FW: Photographs and Mock-up Installation




Thanks and have a great day.

B‐

Beth Minor, City Clerk
City of Palo Alto
250 Hamilton Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94301
(650)329‐2379



‐‐‐‐‐Original Message‐‐‐‐‐
From: Francesca Kautz <dfkautz@pacbell.net>
Sent: Friday, January 11, 2019 11:41 AM
To: DuBois, Tom <Tom.DuBois@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Kou, Lydia <Lydia.Kou@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Tanaka, Greg
<Greg.Tanaka@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Filseth, Eric (Internal) <Eric.Filseth@CityofPaloAlto.org>;
Alison.Cormack@cityofpaloalto.org; alisonlcormack@gmail.com; Fine, Adrian <Adrian.Fine@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Kniss,
Liz (internal) <Liz.Kniss@CityofPaloAlto.org>
Cc: Architectural Review Board <arb@cityofpaloalto.org>; Planning Commission
<Planning.Commission@cityofpaloalto.org>; Clerk, City <city.clerk@cityofpaloalto.org>
Subject: Photographs and Mock‐up Installation

Dear Mr. DuBois, Ms. Kou, Mr. Tanaka, Mr. Filseth, Ms. Cormack, Mr. Fine and Ms. Kniss,

I recently learned that the Interim Director of Planning and Community Environment, Jonathan Lait, has rejected the
Architectural Review Board’s December recommendation to locate underground the cell towers Crown Castle/Verizon
applied to install in the University South neighborhood. He has instead approved a streetlight pole mounted cell tower
design of which there are no photographs available to the public.

Just as with the Cluster 1 proposal, we need to have a mock installation so people can see what the antenna, cabling and
radio equipment screened within a custom green painted, cylindrical shroud mounted atop the replacement streetlight
pole looks like.

Please direct Planning Director Lait to withdraw his decision to approve the Crown Castle/Verizon University South
proposed cell tower installations until he provides the City of Palo Alto with photographs and a mock‐up installation.

Thank you,

Francesca Kautz


                                                            1
Carnahan, David

From:               Clerk, City
Sent:               Sunday, January 13, 2019 5:15 PM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            FW: Planning Director approves University South cell tower design sight unseen




Thanks and have a great day.

B‐

Beth Minor, City Clerk
City of Palo Alto
250 Hamilton Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94301
(650)329‐2379




From: Jeanne Fleming <jfleming@metricus.net>
Sent: Thursday, January 10, 2019 4:21 PM
To: Filseth, Eric (Internal) <Eric.Filseth@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Fine, Adrian <Adrian.Fine@CityofPaloAlto.org>;
Alison.Cormack@cityofpaloalto.org; DuBois, Tom <Tom.DuBois@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Kniss, Liz (internal)
<Liz.Kniss@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Kou, Lydia <Lydia.Kou@CityofPaloAlto.org>; 'Greg Tanaka' <greg@gregtanaka.org>
Cc: Architectural Review Board <arb@cityofpaloalto.org>; Planning Commission
<Planning.Commission@cityofpaloalto.org>; Clerk, City <city.clerk@cityofpaloalto.org>
Subject: Planning Director approves University South cell tower design sight unseen

Dear Mayor Filseth, Vice Mayor Fine, Ms. Cormack, Mr. DuBois, Ms. Kniss, Ms. Kou and Mr. Tanaka,

I have just learned that Palo Alto’s Planning Director has rejected the Architectural Review Board’s
December recommendation to locate underground the cell towers Crown Castle/Verizon has applied
to install in the University South neighborhood. Instead, Mr. Lait has approved a Crown Castle
streetlight pole-mounted cell tower design—a design which he apparently has never seen a
photograph of, much less a mock-up or actual installation.

It was in asking City Staff for a photograph of the towers Mr. Lait approved that I discovered no photo
exists.

Planning Director Lait, who is not an architect, has thrown out the recommendations of Palo Alto’s
Architectural Review Board and approved Crown Castle’s cell towers without even seeing what they
actually look like.
                                                          1
As you know, these irresponsible actions come at a time when City Staff is asking City Council to
approve an amended Wireless Ordinance that gives the Planning Director sole authority to establish
aesthetic standards for the over 150 so-called small cell node cell towers that telecom companies
have already applied to locate in close proximity to residents’ homes here.

Respectfully, I ask you to please reject the amended Ordinance that City Staff has submitted to you
and insist that it be modified to:

   1. Establish the Architectural Review Board—not the Planning Director—as the lead in setting
      standards for the siting and appearance of cell towers;

   2. Establish that there be a series of community meetings so that residents may learn what
      standards are being proposed, ask questions of ARB members and City Staff, and offer their
      own ideas for consideration; and

   3. Require that, once these standards have been assembled, City Council must approve them
      before they become part of the City’s Wireless Ordinance.

I ask you as well to please direct Planning Director Lait to withdraw his decision to approve the Crown
Castle/Verizon University South proposed cell tower installations, to withdraw it until he can provide
the citizens of Palo Alto with photographs and a mock-up installation that show what he has approved
actually looks like.

Sincerely,

Jeanne Fleming

Jeanne Fleming, PhD
JFleming@Metricus.net
650-325-5151




                                                   2
Carnahan, David

From:               Clerk, City
Sent:               Sunday, January 13, 2019 5:14 PM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            FW: Planning Director approves University South cell tower design sight unseen




Thanks and have a great day.

B‐

Beth Minor, City Clerk
City of Palo Alto
250 Hamilton Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94301
(650)329‐2379




From: Whitney Leeman <whitney.r.leeman@gmail.com>
Sent: Friday, January 11, 2019 7:02 AM
To: Filseth, Eric (Internal) <Eric.Filseth@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Fine, Adrian <Adrian.Fine@CityofPaloAlto.org>;
Alison.Cormack@cityofpaloalto.org; DuBois, Tom <Tom.DuBois@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Kniss, Liz (internal)
<Liz.Kniss@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Kou, Lydia <Lydia.Kou@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Greg Tanaka <greg@gregtanaka.org>
Cc: Architectural Review Board <arb@cityofpaloalto.org>; Planning Commission
<Planning.Commission@cityofpaloalto.org>; Clerk, City <city.clerk@cityofpaloalto.org>
Subject: Planning Director approves University South cell tower design sight unseen


Dear Mayor Filseth, Vice Mayor Fine, Ms. Cormack, Mr. DuBois, Ms. Kniss, Ms. Kou and Mr. Tanaka,



I have learned that Palo Alto’s Planning Director has rejected the Architectural Review Board’s
December recommendation to locate underground the cell towers Crown Castle/Verizon has applied
to install in the University South neighborhood. Instead, Mr. Lait has approved a Crown Castle
streetlight pole-mounted cell tower design—a design which he apparently has never seen a
photograph of, much less a mock-up or actual installation.



City Staff has told Ms. Jeanne Fleming that there exists no photograph of the towers Mr. Lait
approved.
                                                          1
Planning Director Lait, who is not an architect, has thrown out the recommendations of Palo Alto’s
Architectural Review Board and approved Crown Castle’s cell towers without even seeing what they
actually look like.



As you know, these irresponsible actions come at a time when City Staff is asking City Council to
approve an amended Wireless Ordinance that gives the Planning Director sole authority to establish
aesthetic standards for the over 150 so-called small cell node cell towers that telecom companies
have already applied to locate in close proximity to residents’ homes and busineeses in Palo Alto.



Respectfully, I ask you to please reject the amended Ordinance that City Staff has submitted to you
and insist that it be modified to:



   1. Establish the Architectural Review Board—not the Planning Director—as the lead in setting
      standards for the siting and appearance of cell towers;



   2. Establish that there be a series of community meetings so that residents may learn what
      standards are being proposed, ask questions of ARB members and City Staff, and offer their
      own ideas for consideration; and

   3. Require that, once these standards have been assembled, City Council must approve them
      before they become part of the City’s Wireless Ordinance.



I ask you as well to please direct Planning Director Lait to withdraw his decision to approve the Crown
Castle/Verizon University South proposed cell tower installations, to withdraw it until he can provide
the citizens of Palo Alto with photographs and a mock-up installation that show what he has approved
actually looks like.



Sincerely,



Whitney Leeman, Ph.D.




                                                   2
Carnahan, David

From:               Clerk, City
Sent:               Sunday, January 13, 2019 5:14 PM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            FW: Please reject the amended Palo Alto's Wireless Ordinance that City Staff has submitted to you
                    for approval




Thanks and have a great day.

B‐

Beth Minor, City Clerk
City of Palo Alto
250 Hamilton Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94301
(650)329‐2379




From: celia chow <celia.cchow@gmail.com>
Sent: Thursday, January 10, 2019 8:01 PM
To: Alison.Cormack@cityofpaloalto.org; DuBois, Tom <Tom.DuBois@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Fine, Adrian
<Adrian.Fine@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Filseth, Eric (Internal) <Eric.Filseth@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Kniss, Liz (internal)
<Liz.Kniss@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Kou, Lydia <Lydia.Kou@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Tanaka, Greg
<Greg.Tanaka@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Architectural Review Board <arb@cityofpaloalto.org>; Planning Commission
<Planning.Commission@cityofpaloalto.org>; Clerk, City <city.clerk@cityofpaloalto.org>
Subject: Please reject the amended Palo Alto's Wireless Ordinance that City Staff has submitted to you for approval

Dear Mayor Filseth, Vice-Mayor Fine, Ms. Cormack, Mr. DuBois, Ms. Kniss, Ms. Kou, and Mr. Tanaka,

I'd like to urge you not to approve the amended Ordinance without modifying it: a) to make the Architectural
Review Board the lead in developing the new standards, not the Planning Director; b) to make provisions for
the process to be democratic (e.g., to include opportunities for residents to express their views about the
proposed standards); and c) to require City Council's approval, before the assembled standards become part
of the City's Wireless Ordinance.


Please, reject the amended Ordinance that City Staff has submitted to you and insist that it be modified to:



     1. Establish the Architectural Review Board—not the Planning Director—as the lead in setting standards
        for the siting and appearance of cell towers;
                                                           1
   2. Establish that there be a series of community meetings so that residents may learn what standards are
      being proposed, ask questions of ARB members and City Staff, and offer their own ideas for
      consideration; and

   3. Require that, once these standards have been assembled, City Council must approve them before they
      become part of the City’s Wireless Ordinance.




As a long-term resident of Palo Alto, I thank you for your consideration.



Celia Chow

celia.cchow@gmail.com

(650)776-2878




                                                        2
Carnahan, David

From:               Clerk, City
Sent:               Sunday, January 13, 2019 5:14 PM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            FW: Regarding Planning Director's decision to reject ARB's recommendation




Thanks and have a great day.

B‐

Beth Minor, City Clerk
City of Palo Alto
250 Hamilton Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94301
(650)329‐2379




From: Herc Kwan <herc.kwan@gmail.com>
Sent: Thursday, January 10, 2019 10:11 PM
To: Filseth, Eric (Internal) <Eric.Filseth@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Fine, Adrian <Adrian.Fine@CityofPaloAlto.org>;
Alison.Cormack@cityofpaloalto.org; DuBois, Tom <Tom.DuBois@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Kniss, Liz (internal)
<Liz.Kniss@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Kou, Lydia <Lydia.Kou@CityofPaloAlto.org>; 'Greg Tanaka' <greg@gregtanaka.org>
Cc: Architectural Review Board <arb@cityofpaloalto.org>; Planning Commission
<Planning.Commission@cityofpaloalto.org>; Clerk, City <city.clerk@cityofpaloalto.org>
Subject: Regarding Planning Director's decision to reject ARB's recommendation

Dear Mayor Filseth, Vice Mayor Fine, Ms. Cormack, Mr. DuBois, Ms. Kniss, Ms. Kou and Mr. Tanaka,

Last month I have written you to urge the ARB to realize that we DO NOT want pole‐mounted ancillary cell‐tower
equipment in Palo Alto. This evening I just learned that the Architectural Review Board’s December recommendation to
locate underground the cell towers Crown Castle/Verizon has applied to install in the University South neighborhood has
been rejected by the Planning Director.

I just attended and returned from the 2019 Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas where I witnessed the Verizon
Wireless executives and other telecom companies emphasizing the 5G network.
https://www.cnet.com/news/5g‐is‐even‐more‐of‐a‐confusing‐mess‐than‐ever‐at‐ces‐2019/

During the show, I can also see how desperately these telecom companies are competing to put their infrastructure in
place.



                                                           1
Only I realize now that they are doing it at the expense of poor citizens and residents like us who are being forced to
accept the direction that the Planning Director wants to take us to and not according to ARB who consists of experts and
architects who are highly qualified to defend and preserve the building code in Palo Alto.

If Planning Director Lait would reject every decision made by ARB that does not please the big telecom companies, why
should we have the ARB in place to examine carefully the applications from the big telecom companies? Shouldn’t we
have a system to examine each decision and have a system or authority to re‐examine any suspicious decisions made by
the Planning Director?

In addition, I also learned that the City Staff is hastily asking the City Council to approve an amended Wireless Ordinance
that gives the Planning Director sole authority to establish aesthetic standards for the over 150 so‐called small cell node
cell towers that telecom companies have already applied to locate in close proximity to residents’ homes here, including
our home on 2490 Louis Rd. Why are they so desperate in this effort? Are they doing it to hurt the residents that they
are meant to serve? I just could not comprehend.

Please stop these negative ordinances from damaging our beautiful environment and quality of life. We hope the City
Council will act to protect its residents and citizens living here.

Thank you for your attention.

Best Regards,

Herc Kwan, Ph.D.
Residents, 2490 Louis Rd
Home: (650) 843‐0852




                                                             2
Carnahan, David

From:                Clerk, City
Sent:                Sunday, January 13, 2019 5:15 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             FW: University South cell design approval




Thanks and have a great day.

B‐

Beth Minor, City Clerk
City of Palo Alto
250 Hamilton Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94301
(650)329‐2379



‐‐‐‐‐Original Message‐‐‐‐‐
From: Kelly Germa <kelly.germa@gmail.com>
Sent: Thursday, January 10, 2019 6:55 PM
To: Kou, Lydia <Lydia.Kou@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Fine, Adrian <Adrian.Fine@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Kniss, Liz (internal)
<Liz.Kniss@CityofPaloAlto.org>; DuBois, Tom <Tom.DuBois@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Alison.Cormack@cityofpaloalto.org;
alisonlcormack@gmail.com; Tanaka, Greg <Greg.Tanaka@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Filseth, Eric (Internal)
<Eric.Filseth@CityofPaloAlto.org>
Cc: Architectural Review Board <arb@cityofpaloalto.org>; Planning Commission
<Planning.Commission@cityofpaloalto.org>; Clerk, City <city.clerk@cityofpaloalto.org>
Subject: University South cell design approval

Dear Ms. Kou, Mr. Fine, Ms. Kniss, Mr. Dubois, Ms. Cormack, Mr. Tanaka, and Mr. Filseth,

I’ve just learned that Planning Director Jonathan Lait has approved streetlight‐mounted cell towers for the University
South neighborhood without knowing what they actually look like!

This is outrageous. The people of Palo Alto need to be able to see what will be put next to their homes and provide
feedback along with the ARB on the design before anything gets approved.

Please move to rescind this approval until further review and input can be gained from the community you were elected
to serve!

Thank you,

Kelly Germa, Palo Alto Homeowner
650‐544‐5711

Sent from my iPad


                                                            1
Carnahan, David

From:                  Wolfgang Dueregger <wolfgang.dueregger@stanfordalumni.org>
Sent:                  Wednesday, January 16, 2019 9:18 AM
To:                    Council, City
Cc:                    Arthur Keller; Neilson Buchanan; John Guislin; Paul & Karen Machado; Shikada, Ed; David Schrom;
                       Carol Scott; Christian Pease
Subject:               Fwd: Announcements from the City of Palo Alto for 01/16/2019


Dear City Council,

please have the Rail Grade Separation as priority #1.

First, nothing got really done and/or accomplished on this issue. Grade separation clearly affects
transportation, housing and the budget (and not the other way around).

Second, it is already very late getting a sensible grade separation strategy worked out, since electrification is
about to start, and if ever a tunnel would be considered or a partial trench, etc., how would this work if
electrification is already partially underway?

Please set clear priorities first and do those things first that affect other things - like grade separation.

thank you

Wolfgang Dueregger

Evergreen Park


‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
From: Palo Alto <support@opengov.com>
Date: Wed, Jan 16, 2019 at 12:06 PM
Subject: Announcements from the City of Palo Alto for 01/16/2019
To: <wolfgang.dueregger@stanfordalumni.org>


            Updates from the City of Palo Alto about Open City Hall          Is this email not displaying correctly?
                                                                             View it in your browser.




                                                                      1
   2019 City Council Priorities
   Jan 15, 2019 02:57 pm | The City of Palo Alto



   What are the priorities you would like to see the City Council adopt for 2019?


   Each year, the City Council reviews its priorities for the year at its Annual Council Retreat. A
   Council priority is defined as a topic that will receive significant attention during the year.
   Typically, priorities have a three-year time limit, although some may continue beyond that time
   period.


   The priorities for 2018 included:


            Transportation
            Housing
            Budget & Finance
            Rail Grade Separation


   Suggestions and feedback will be provided to the City Council in preparation for their retreat
   scheduled for February 2, 2019.      Your responses are important to the City Council. Please
   submit all comments on this topic by January 28, 2019.

    Read More




Copyright © 2019 OpenGov, All rights reserved.
You are receiving this email because you participated on the
City of Palo Alto ‐ Open City Hall website.

Our mailing address is:
OpenGov
955 Charter Street
Redwood City, CA 94063

Add us to your address book




                                                     2
unsubscribe from this list | update subscription preferences




                                                 3
Carnahan, David

From:                John Kelley <jkelley@399innovation.com>
Sent:                Friday, January 11, 2019 8:12 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             FYI: How California can build 3.5 million new homes – Alfred Twu – Medium




https://medium.com/@firstcultural/how‐california‐can‐build‐3‐5‐million‐new‐homes‐dfe2f0ba3466


Best, John

(Mobile. Brief. Please excuse.)




                                                           1
Carnahan, David

From:                Sandy Rosenberg <sandyruthr@yahoo.com>
Sent:                Thursday, January 10, 2019 8:12 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Home for the RVs now on the City Streets


Mayor Filseth,
Vice Mayor Fine
Council Members Cormack, DuBois, Kniss, Kou, and Tanaka


Please consider using the site of the former Palo Alto garbage dump, which is now being groomed into a park, to be
converted to a park for RVs.

The City owns the land, and without an enormous expenses, the City could provide RV campers, paver spaces, water,
sewer dumps sites, showers/bath rooms, power and garbage disposal facilities.

RVs parked on El Camino and on our residential streets are out of place and NOT appreciated by the neighbors.

The RV Residents could be billed for their spaces, maintenance and utilities. Qualifications for entrance to the park
would have to be established. It should not be just a storage area for RVs.

Where else could the city provide living sites for low income population at such a low cost?

I know it is a beautiful spot. Why not use it for the lower income RV population.

Sincerely,



Sandra Rosenberg
A resident for Palo Alto for over 40 years.




                                                            1
Carnahan, David

From:                  Sue Benjamin <mysterysue@gmail.com>
Sent:                  Tuesday, January 15, 2019 7:36 PM
To:                    Council, City; supervisor.simitian@bos.sccgov.org; marc.berman@asm.ca.gov;
                       zachary.ross@asm.ca.gov; jerry.hill@sen.ca.gov; lisa.chung@sen.ca.gov
Subject:               I oppose the CASA Compact - please join me


Please join me in OPPOSING the CASA Compact.

I oppose it because
1. The CASA Compact erodes local control and financial infrastructure without solving the affordable housing problem,.
2. The elected officials from small towns and the public have been excluded from the process.
3. The Regional Housing Enterprise creates privatized regional government; a blight on democracy.

Thank you very much,

Sue Benjamin
Palo Alto, CA




                                                                 1
Carnahan, David

From:              Shivani Aggarwal <shivani.aggarwal@gmail.com>
Sent:              Tuesday, January 15, 2019 10:42 AM
To:                Council, City
Subject:           Maybell Ave parking situation


Hi City Council members,

On behalf of Maybell ave residents, I'd like to discuss the parking issues on our street. In brief, we'd like to
have resident parking permit program setup for our street.

A few years ago, parking on Maybell Ave was reduced to only one side of the street from El Camino all the
way up to Amaranta Ave. Due to which there is now very limited parking on Maybell Ave. We residents
barely have one spot in front of each of our homes.

The car dealerships around the corner on El Camino take up all the spots early in the morning. Our visitors,
babysitters, gardeners, and other help have a lot of difficulty finding parking. On trash days, we don't even
find curb space to place our bins and have to wait for these cars to move! And the parking situation is
further exacerbated by all the construction on Maybell which when completed will only increase the parking
demands for our neighborhood.

Could you please help with this problem or let me know how we can proceed to resolve this? It is a pretty
frustrating daily problem for us. We believe the permit parking should help with this situation. We also
wonder why there is no parking on the other side of Maybell especially on weekends when there is no school
or on weekdays outside school hours.

I look forward to your response.

Thanks
Shivani




                                                        1
Carnahan, David

From:                 Rebecca Sanders <rebsanders@gmail.com>
Sent:                 Monday, January 14, 2019 9:27 PM
To:                   Council, City
Cc:                   Sheryl Klein; rtsuda@pah.community; Noah Fiedel; Lait, Jonathan; Owen, Graham; De Geus, Robert;
                      Shikada, Ed; gsheyner@paweekly.com
Subject:              My REAL Comments




Dear City Council Members:

I want to share with you my FULL prepared comments ‐ of which I made a real hash tonight when I had to cut them
down. Note to self ‐‐ make a 1 minute, 2 minute and 3 minute version going forward. I didn''t get to say what I wanted
to at the podium. So I am putting them in this email and asking the City Clerk Beth Minor to add to the public record
please. Please read the last paragraph if you would so that you can hear what I meant to say.

Sorry to bug out on you tonight. I'm listening to you on the radio while I turn my attention to a work project that is due
tomorrow, here in my home office.

Wish I were there,.

Kind regards and thank you all.

Becky

===================================

Thank you to Sheryl Klein, Board Chair of PAH, Randy Tsuda PAH Exec Director, and City Staff –
Jonathan Lait, Graham Owen and Rob DeGeus for addressing the concerns of Venturans. In this final
stretch, Wilton resident Noah Fiedel really carried the ball for Ventura down the field to get us to “first
and goal to go.”

Here’s where we are and here’s what we Venturans expect going forward:

        1. We were concerned from the get go about daylight plane, massing and density and from
        the get go Palo Alto Housing took us seriously and gave us fewer stories at the back. Wilton
        Court will not be a giant industrial shoebox. Thank you for that, Palo Alto Housing.

        2. We took a tour of the Tree House and were pleased at the design of the building and the
        homey-ness of the space. We are excited that these are real homes being added to our
        community with lovely amenities for the residents to enjoy. Outstanding.

        3. Loading Zone – The City and PAH have honored our request not to lose the four
        designated spaces on Wilton for use as a loading zone for Wilton Court. I think Graham said
        he’d provide an “at places” memo for your review about that. They will look at placing the
        loading zone on ECR. Our reach ask was that PAH put the loading zone on site at the back
        where they have a little extra room. That was not received well.


                                                             1
      4. We are excited that PAH has agreed to preserve pedestrian access on ECR or Wilton
      during construction. This is a pet peeve we have in Ventura that a large project gets approved
      and the construction companies act like they own the sidewalks and the streets, and then we
      residents have to zig zag our way through the construction zones, risking life and limb as we
      bike and walk. Thank you, Palo Alto Housing.

      5. Construction impacts – We have as a condition of approval promises not to allow
      construction parking on Wilton Avenue and the surrounding streets. And we have promises
      not to block off Wilton for construction-staging purposes which is huge. Thank you, Palo Alto
      Housing.

      6. Sheryl sent us the TDM and it looks good. Want to call everyone’s attention to the very last
      page where it talks of IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING

      “The number of vehicle trips associated with the project will be tracked using an annual
      hose count through the first five-year evaluation period… A manual count and/or a
      limited timeframe may be necessary if cost is a prohibitive factor.

      We believe Sheryl when she said that they will monitor their TDM and that her staff is open to
      our feedback. But we hope that they will do what is necessary to get the accurate data and find
      a way to pay for it.

      7. In the interests of full disclosure I’m saving that that we didn’t get for last:

      Traffic study on Wilton – We were not able to win any concessions on this one at this
      time. Wouldn’t it be feasible to fold a traffic study of Ventura into the traffic study for
      NVCAP? The reason we ask is that the NVCAP site is five blocks from Wilton Court, with Foot
      Locker, Mike’s Bikes, Compadre site and the Quonset hut site at ECR & Matadero -- and
      others coming into play as well. A traffic study for NVCAP really ought to include the “golden
      rectangle,” a cut-through drivers’ paradise - Meadow to Page Mill, Park Blvd to ECR to avoid
      the ECR and Page Mill intersection. Wilton Court will exacerbate our traffic situation with its
      50 new trips a day and that is only the beginning. Why can’t we have a comprehensive traffic
      study? Palo Alto Housing has indicated they agree about the Traffic Study. They would be
      interested in more data for their own residents. They don’t want their people getting hit by cars
      every time they step off a curb. So we’ll be keeping after you guys downtown to help us out
      and ward off Venturamageddon.

      8. A word about ground floor retail. Venturans are only okay with losing community serving
      retail in a project like this -- 100% affordable project. Do not ask us to give up the retail that
      many of us use and value in order to subsidize office or at market housing. That doesn’t set
      right with us.

In closing I’d like to say how much I value the chance to work with Sheryl and in recent weeks, Randy
to iron out some of these concerns and to affirm that we want the same things for our community –
clean well-lighted places for people who are under-resourced to live so that Palo Alto can
preserve its diversity and strive for inclusionary excellence, which is a hallmark of the Ventura
neighborhood.

Welcome, Wilton Court, to our neighborhood.

Becky Sanders
                                                     2
January 14, 2019




                   3
Carnahan, David

From:             Arlene Goetze <photowrite67@yahoo.com>
Sent:             Tuesday, January 15, 2019 10:06 AM
To:               Ro Khanna
Subject:          New 6-in-1 vaccine: Coma, Seizures etc.



Forwarded by Arlene Goetze, No Toxins for Children, photowrite67@yahoo.com
2 Articles: 1. From National Vaccine Info Center: (FDA approves)
                2. From thetruthaboutcancer.com: (Some kids died)
                     FDA Approves VAXELIS Combo Vaccine Despite Infant Mortality


1. FDA approves 6-in-1 Combo Vaccine for Babies ----                                  (Coma,
seizures, spasms, non-stop crying etc.) . ------
From The Vaccine Reaction, January 3, 2019
Published by National Vaccine Information Center

by Kate Raines
  On Dec. 21, 2018, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved a new combination
hexavalent vaccine (Vaxelis) that includes antigens for six different diseases: diphtheria, tetanus,
pertussis, hepatitis B, poliomyelitis and invasive haemophilus influenza type B.1
  Vaccine manufacturers Sanofi Pasteur and Merck jointly developed Vaxelis, which is approved to be
given in three doses to children between six weeks and four years of age but children will have to get a
separate dose of DTaP vaccine to complete the primary pertussis vaccine series before age four. The
new combination vaccine is expected to be commercially available in the U.S. in 2020.2
  Sanofi provided the antigens for diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, and poliomyelitis for Vaxelis
production and Merck provided antigens for H. influenzae type b and hepatitis B.3 Vaxelis has been
approved by government regulators in the European Union since 2016.4

  Monovalent vaccines include only one antigen, while multivalent or polyvalent vaccines like Vaxelis
include either more than one strain of a microorganism or more than one type of
microorganism.                 Widely used multivalent vaccines include the live attenuated measles,
mumps and rubella vaccine (MMR) and the inactivated diphtheria, tetanus and acellular pertussis
vaccines (DTaP for children under age seven and Tdap for older children and adults). Separate
vaccines for measles, mumps, rubella and pertussis are not available in the U.S., while tetanus and
diphtheria vaccines are only available as a combination (DT or Td) vaccine.

Drawbacks of Combination Vaccines
  Combination vaccines have been created by manufacturers to purportedly reduce the number of
shots a child must receive to be in compliance with government recommended childhood vaccine
schedules and to simplify ordering, transport and storage of vaccines.5 Drawbacks to the
multivalent vaccines include a higher risk of pain and swelling at the injection site and,
and for Merck’s MMRV (mumps, measles, rubella, varicella) vaccine in particular, a higher
incidence of febrile seizures in children under age four.7

  The product manufacturer package insert for the new hexavalent vaccine states that Vaxelis is
contraindicated in children with a history of severe allergic reaction to any of the
ingredients of the vaccine, or to any “other diphtheria toxoid, tetanus toxoid, pertussis-

                                                    1
containing vaccine, inactivated poliovirus vaccine, hepatitis B vaccine, or H.
influenzae type b vaccine.”

  According to the Vaxelis product insert, contraindications include “a history of
encephalopathy (coma, decreased levels of consciousness, prolonged seizures) within 7
days of a previous dose of pertussis-containing vaccine, that is not attributable to
another cause” and “a history of progressive neurologic disorder, including infantile
spasms, uncontrolled epilepsy, or progressive encephalopathy until a treatment
regimen has been established and the conditions has stabilized.”

  Warnings and Precautions include temperature over 105F within 48 hours not
attributable to another identifiable cause; collapse or shock-like state (hypotonic-
hyporesponsive episode (HHS) within 48 hours; persistent, inconsolable crying lasting
more than three hours within 48 hours; and seizures with or without fever within three
days.

  The product insert reports high rates of adverse reactions among children receiving the
experimental hexavalent vaccine in clinical trials: “Rates of adverse reactions varied by number of
doses of Vaxelis received.

  The solicited adverse reactions 0-5 days following any dose were irritability (≥55 percent),
crying (≥45 percent), injection site pain (≥44 percent), somnolence (≥40 percent),
injection site erythema (≥25 percent), decreased appetite (≥23 percent), fever ≥38.0°C
(≥19 percent), injection site swelling (≥18 percent), and vomiting (≥9 percent).”1

References:       Thevaccinereaction.org/2019/01/fda/-approves-6-in-1-combo-vaccine-for-babies

-----------------
2. From thetruthaboutcancer.com,
FDA Approves VAXELIS Combo Vaccine Despite Infant Mortality

The Truth About Vaccines docu-series!
Article Summary
   * The FDA has approved VAXELIS, a new 6-in-1 combo vaccine created by
pharmaceutical giants Merck and Sanofi, for infants as young as 6 weeks old.
   * The new vaccine is intended to reduce the amount of physical injections by combining
more vaccines into one shot than ever before.
   * Though VAXELIS has been approved for children as young as 6 weeks old, rudimentary
studies show that the combo vaccine is not safe.
   * Several children died during clinical trials, and though no deaths were blamed on
the vaccine, half of them resulted from “undetermined causes”.
   * Sudden Infant Death Syndrom (SIDS) was among the “undetermined” causes of
death in the study. SIDS has been shown to be correlated with vaccines.       (N.B. SIDS
vanished when Japan stopped vaccines under age 2 for 20 yrs.)
    * Like most vaccines, the safety research is inadequate, and the manufacturers have a
history of deceitful marketing practices and bribery.
    * At 6 weeks, infant immune systems are not equipped for the massive toxic load of this
vaccine, and patients are liable to experience severe developmental defects as a result.
[-] Sources and References
    * VAXELIS Prescribing Information
    * 6-in-1 vaccine Parent information leaflet
    * How About 6 Vaccines In One? FDA Approves New Vaccine From Sanofi, Merck
                                                   2
   * Infant mortality rates regressed against number of vaccine doses routinely given: Is
there a biochemical or synergistic toxicity?
   * FDA Approves VAXELIS, Sanofi (SNY) and Merck's (MRK) Pediatric Hexavalent
Combination Vaccine
   * 2018 Recommended Immunizations For Infants and Children (Birth through 6 Years)
in Easy-to-read Format
   * diphtheria & tetanus toxoids/ acellular pertussis vaccine/poliovirus vaccine
inactivated/hepatitis b vaccine/haemophilus influenzae type b vaccine (Rx)
   * Pediatric Hexavalent Combination Vaccine Approved by FDA
   * Hexavalent vaccines: characteristics of available products and practical considerations
from a panel of Italian experts
   * FDA Approves Super Vaccine (6 in 1 Shot) To Launch By 2020
   * New hexavalent vaccine protects children against 6 diseases
   * Six disease combo vaccine, VAXELIS, receives FDA nod
   * The Impact of Vaccination on the Immature Human Immune System
   * Merck Accused of Fraud, Deceit and Negligence in US Gardasil Case
   * Merck Whistleblower Suit A Boon to Vaccine Foes Even As It Stresses Importance of
Vaccines
   * Sanofi US Agrees to Pay $109 Million to Resolve False Claims Act Allegations of Free
Product Kickbacks to Physicians
   * Newborn Immune Systems Suppressed
FDA Approves VAXELIS Combo Vaccine Despite Infant Mortality
      PLEASE SHARE WITH OTHER PARENTS.




                                              3
Carnahan, David

From:               California High-Speed Rail <news@hsr.ca.gov>
Sent:               Thursday, January 10, 2019 2:03 PM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            PHOTO RELEASE: New Housing Complex Opens to Wasco Residents




                                         To view this email as a web page, go here.




       News Release

       1/10/19                                                 Toni Tinoco             Daniel Ortiz-Hernandez
                                                          559-445-6776 (w)                   661-758-7214 (w)
                                                          559-274-8975 (c)             daortiz@ci.wasco.ca.us
                                                   Toni.Tinoco@hsr.ca.gov




                                    PHOTO RELEASE:
                       New Housing Complex Opens to Wasco Residents

       WASCO, Calif. – Today, the City of Wasco opened Rosaleda Village, a new housing complex to
       residents, with the help of several federal and state agencies, including the California High-Speed
       Rail Authority (Authority). The new 17-acre complex located on the southside of Gromer Avenue
       features more than 200 units and allows for easier access to schools, shopping centers and other
       activities. The former housing facility was located east of the BNSF railroad line on 6th and J Street
       and next to the high-speed rail alignment being constructed through Wasco.

       As an alternative to building a sound barrier wall to mitigate noise impacts, the Authority instead
       allocated $10 million to the Wasco Farmworkers Housing Relocation Project. The allocation helped
       the relocation project leverage several other existing resources and programs to improve the living
       conditions for residents.




                                                             1
“Our team recognized the long-term benefits of relocating this community to an area that would allow
for safety improvements and faster response times for emergency personnel. Families will no longer
need to cross the railroad tracks to get to school and the rest of the city,” said Central Valley Regional
Director Diana Gomez.

“This project represents the positive impact that can be made when Federal, State and Local
agencies work together to better the quality of life for local residents. The City of Wasco is proud to
be a partner on this project that will better integrate over 200 local families in to the community and
provide easier access to community resources including local schools, shopping and services,” said
Wasco City Manager Daniel Ortiz-Hernandez.

The cost for the project was approximately $49 million comprised of $10 million from the Authority,
$20 million from Low Income Housing Tax Credits, $18 million from the state’s Affordable Housing
and Sustainable Communities Program and $300,000 in existing project reserves with the City of
Wasco.

Multiple groups helped to make the project a reality, including the Wasco Housing Authority, the
Strategic Growth Council and the Governor’s Rural Community Outreach program.

Construction is underway for the first 119-miles of high-speed rail in the Central Valley, creating more
than 2500 labor jobs and putting hundreds of small businesses to work.

                                                 #####



SEE MORE AT WWW.HSR.CA.GOV

California High-Speed Rail Authority
770 L Street, Suite 620


                                                    2
Sacramento, CA 956814
info@hsr.ca.gov
(916) 324-1541




                        This email was sent by: California High-Speed Rail Authority
                             770 L Street Suite 620, Sacramento, CA, 95814 US

                                             Privacy Policy

                                              Unsubscribe




                                                     3
Carnahan, David

From:              nancy moss <nancymoss@gmail.com>
Sent:              Tuesday, January 15, 2019 5:11 PM
To:                Passmore, Walter
Cc:                Council, City
Subject:           planned destruction of trees near new police station and garage



Dear Mr. Passmore,

As a resident of Palo Alto since 1966, I strongly object to the removal of mature and beautiful trees in order to
accommodate a larger parking lot in the California Avenue/Sherman/Sheridan area.

Haven't we been through this just a few years ago when the trees along California Avenue were chopped
down overnight without community participation in the decision?

It's bad enough that the planning planning process entices more rather than less use of automobiles. Removal
of 40 mature trees in our increasingly and garishly urbanized environment is completely inappropriate. I find
your reassurance that newly planted trees will mature in 15 years disingenuous.

In addition, I see little evidence on my daily walks and bike rides that the trees the city has removed, for
example along Newell, along Middlefield, and near Greene Middle School, have been replaced. Most often
they are NOT replaced, further diminishing the beneficial environmental and health effects of a green canopy.

Shame on you.

Sincerely,

Nancy Moss

Like many of my fellow residents, I am well along in years, and don't have 15 years to wait while the new trees
"mature."




                                                         1
Carnahan, David

From:               Annette Rahn <annetterahn@gmail.com>
Sent:               Friday, January 11, 2019 2:06 PM
To:                 Council, City
Cc:                 Clerk, City; Architectural Review Board; Planning Commission
Subject:            Planning Director approves University South cell tower design sight unseen




       Dear Mayor Filseth, Vice Mayor Fine, Ms. Cormack, Mr. DuBois, Ms. Kniss, Ms. Kou
       and Mr. Tanaka,



       I ask you to please reject the amended Ordinance that City Staff has submitted to you
       and insist that it be modified to:



           1. Establish the Architectural Review Board—not the Planning Director—as the lead
              in setting standards for the siting and appearance of cell towers;



           2. Establish that there be a series of community meetings so that residents may
              learn what standards are being proposed, ask questions of ARB members and
              City Staff, and offer their own ideas for consideration; and

           3. Require that, once these standards have been assembled, City Council must
              approve them before they become part of the City’s Wireless Ordinance.



       I ask you as well to please direct Planning Director Lait to withdraw his decision to
       approve the Crown Castle/Verizon University South proposed cell tower installations, to
       withdraw it until he can provide Palo Alto residents with photographs and a copy of the
       proposed installation that clearly show what he has approved.



       Sincerely,


                                                          1
Annette Rahn

650-575-8214




               2
Carnahan, David

From:               JIM POPPY <jamespoppy@comcast.net>
Sent:               Thursday, January 10, 2019 11:02 AM
To:                 Council, City; City Attorney
Subject:            Please do not meet privately with Castilleja about their DEIR - could be illegal



Dear City Council and City Attorney,

Castilleja is asking for a private screening with City Council of the draft EIR for their expansion
project.



Since the matter will eventually be a quasi-judicial matter, it is unfair (illegal?) to exclude the public
from any such meeting.



Castilleja has shown that they are willing to lie about their intentions and neighborhood opposition.
This meeting would give them the opportunity to misrepresent the neighborhood and public sentiment
in general.



The plan contains multiple code violations and variances, and they are seeking to permanently
disrupt the City's easement along Melville Avenue.



Please do not allow this meeting to happen without public representation.



Regards,

Jim Poppy

135 Melville Ave.




                                                            1
Carnahan, David

From:                Jen B <jenbrito11@gmail.com>
Sent:                Monday, January 14, 2019 1:18 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             please help us stay in the President Hotel Apartments


Dear Honorable City Council Members,

Good Afternoon, I am a current tenant of the President Hotel Apartments. As a local teacher and young woman who was
born and raised here, I am really attached to the area. I am very eager for any assistance you might offer, in encouraging
AJ Capital to let us reside and pay rent for a few months longer or more. (Or forever!)

Thank you so much for your time and attention.
Jen B.




                                                            1
Carnahan, David

From:              slevy@ccsce.com
Sent:              Saturday, January 12, 2019 11:33 AM
To:                Council, City
Cc:                Shikada, Ed; Stump, Molly
Subject:           President Hotel


Dear mayor Filseth and Council Members,

I am aware of the legal constraints on the city with regard to extending the tenancy of remaining
residents.

But nothing prevents the Council form making a persuasive appeal.

The facts seem pretty clear that no changes on the site can occur before June or probably later.

I believe that the ultimate decision on whether a conversion is legal should be made with advice from staff
so that the city does not risk legal challenges and monetary damages.

But the legality of the conversion has nothing to do with allowing the residents to stay pending resolution
of legal issues and permit filing.

Moreover, it does appear that the property owner is using the tenants as hostages to influence the legal
outcome of their conversion application.

I am hoping there is a firm way for council to call this out while using the law to decide the ultimate
outcome.

Stephen Levy

365 Forest Avenue

Palo Alto




                                                         1
Carnahan, David

From:                PNQL-Now <info@pnqlnow.org>
Sent:                Tuesday, January 15, 2019 11:48 AM
To:                  Council, City; Shikada, Ed; French, Amy; Lait, Jonathan
Subject:             RE: Castilleja Letter to City Council and City Manager, January 9
Attachments:         PNQLnow to PA CC & CM Jan15-2019.pdf




info@pnqlnow.org

attachment included for public record

January 15, 2019

Palo Alto City Council
Palo Alto City Hall
250 Hamilton Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94301

RE: Castilleja Letter to City Manager and City Council, January 9



To Palo Alto City Council and City Manager Ed Shikada

PNQLnow is a Palo Alto resident-based organization that was created to combat the proposed expansion by
Castilleja School in an R1-zoned neighborhood. We represent the unaffiliated households within a two-block radius
of the school.

In the January 9 letter you received from Castilleja, there are many misleading statements that deserve some
clarification. We ask that if you grant a private meeting with the school, as in a study session, that you allow a similar
meeting with neighbors.

First of all, Castilleja fails to mention that their plans call for:

        1. The demolition of two single family homes
        2. The removal of protected mature oak and redwood trees
        3. Combining two 10,000 sq ft lots into the larger property, which would require a variance to combine the
        lots and also to convert residential property to commercial use
        4. Remove 5 structures and replace with one large (Walmart-sized) structure in R1 zone

Instead of homes and mature redwood and oak trees on Emerson Street, there would be what Castilleja calls “open
space.” This open space “park” would be located next to the massive concrete underground garage exit and would
also contain the exhaust chimney for the garage, spewing 400 cars a day plus events directly into the surrounding
neighborhood.
                                                             1
Above Ground Floor Area Ratio
Castilleja states that their requested variance would maintain existing floor area ratio. This is highly misleading, as it
includes the residential FAR from the two 10,000 sq ft lots that they want to combine into the larger property. In
addition, they want to scrape 5 existing school buildings and build one large building, which is not in compliance with
municipal code.




Garage, Parking, and Traffic
Castilleja states there would not be an increase in car trips with the expansion. Then why build a garage? Because it
lays the groundwork for more expansion.


                                                            2
Parking is not an issue around the school. Neighbors are not asking for more parking, so there is no need for the
school to build a garage. In fact, Old Palo Alto has an abundance of parking. The only restrictions for school parking
are within a half block of the school.

The garage design is seriously flawed, with one entrance on the Bryant Bike Boulevard, and the exit dumping
directly into the neighborhood. The Palo Alto Weekly has written an editorial decrying the garage design. The school
is hoping for the notoriously bad science often found in DEIRs to favor the applicant.

Reducing On-Campus Events
Castilleja currently holds more than 100 events per year, plus summer camp. The Castilleja CUP allows for “5 major
events and several others.” Other private schools in Palo Alto are allowed no more than 10 events and must be
closed on the weekend. Castilleja has brazenly violated the terms of their CUP by consistently adding events over
the years, which recently included an all-day event on a Saturday, starting at 7am.

More Variances
The City typically allows 1-2 variances per year. The Castilleja project would require at least 9 variances, probably
more:

            1.   Combining residential lots
            2.   Converting residential property to commercial use
            3.   Removal of protected mature oak and redwood trees
            4.   Changes to the utility easement that runs under the school
            5.   Floor Area Ratio variance
            6.   Setback violations on Bryant St for garage
            7.   Setback violations on Embarcadero for garage
            8.   Setback violations on Emerson Street for garage
            9.   Combining multiple structures into one large structure in R1 zone


We find it troubling that an institution of higher learning would resort to such misleading tactics in order to achieve
their goals. The school has shown they will not compromise with neighbors.

Please do your research and learn more about the expansion plans. Visit pnqlnow.org for more information.

Regards,

On behalf of PNQL:

Rob Levitsky
1200 Emerson St

Andie Reed
160 Melville Ave

Mary Sylvester
135 Melville Ave




                                                            3
Carnahan, David

From:               Mary Riordan <mriordan@stanfordalumni.org>
Sent:               Saturday, January 12, 2019 3:59 PM
To:                 iasdesigns@aol.com
Cc:                 Alison.Cormack@cityofpaloalto.org; Council, City; iqbalserang@gmail.com; KaoKaren007
                    @gmail.com; michelle.kraus@carbontracing.com; cckellogg@gmail.com; catbox@googlegroups.com;
                    forrest.glick@gmail.com; irfan.mirdad@gmail.com; irfan.rydhan@gmail.com; jeff@levinsky.org
Subject:            Re: URGENT: RESIDENTS PLEA for EXTENSION at HOTEL PRESIDENT APARTMENTS


I do not know why I have been copied on this email. I have signed a lease and will be moving out of the Hotel President
by 1/31 in accordance with the agreement I signed with AJ Capital.

Thank you,

Mary Riordan

On Thu, Jan 10, 2019 at 10:34 PM <iasdesigns@aol.com> wrote:
 Dear Ms. Cormack; I am writing this appeal to you being the freshest member on this
 historic Council,,, Welcome!!! And sorry for a tough option brought directly to your
 attention, I hope you take bold steps where required, and can follow through with some
 leadership?
 Please see the attached letter.

 Thanking you,
 Sincerely,

 Iqbal Serang, and
 Dennis Backlund.




                                                           1
Carnahan, David

From:                 Ken Joye <kmjoye@gmail.com>
Sent:                 Wednesday, January 16, 2019 10:20 AM
To:                   Council, City
Cc:                   Holman, Karen (external); Rebecca Sanders; Lait, Jonathan
Subject:              refused entry to NVCAP meetings


The NVCAP “About” page contains the statement "Community engagement and outreach is an integral part of the
planning process. The anticipated community engagement activities include […] Stakeholder Meetings”

As such, I was surprised this morning when I was asked to leave the room in which stakeholder meetings were scheduled
to be held. This was particularly a surprise given this message which I sent last week to <NVCAP@CityofPaloAlto.org>
(emphasis added):

               On Jan 9, 2019, at 2:39 PM, Ken Joye wrote:


               I am a member of Palo Alto’s Pedestrian and Bicycle Advisory Committee, I was forwarded the
               appended invitation. I would like to attend the session on Transportation Interests to offer input.


               I would also like to audit the other four sessions to collect information about what is presented
               so that I can bring that to my neighborhood association (I am a Ventura resident and the
               stakeholder meetings were discussed at our January association meeting).


               I plan to join you at the Downtown Library El Camino Room on the 16th, thanks very much for
               setting up these sessions. Please send me the time for the first session of the day.

The NVCAP process was declared to be under the Brown Act and transparent.

The Stakeholder Meetings engagement page does state "Input gathered from the series of stakeholder meetings will be
recorded by project staff and will be made available for review via the project website” but nowhere on that page or any
other page on the project www site is there a statement that stakeholder meetings are not open to the public.

When asked to leave, I initially said that I would respectfully decline to do so; as I was further pressured, I left as
requested but said that I was doing so under duress.

I am a resident of the Ventura neighborhood and am keenly interested in how the NVCAP process will unfold. This
episode does not instill confidence.

Ken Joye
Ventura neighborhood




                                                               1
                                                                                Please Contact the Clerk’s Office
                                                                                    to View Additional Pages,
                                                                                Attachments, or Images Related
Carnahan, David                                                                         to this Document


From:             ForestLight <forest129@yahoo.com>
Sent:             Monday, January 14, 2019 2:30 PM
To:               Council, City
Cc:               Planning Commission; Architectural Review Board; Clerk, City; alisonlcormack@gmail.com
Subject:          Cell Towers Approval?
Attachments:      Resident group blasts city ruling on cell towers.jpeg



Dear Mayor Filseth, Vice-Mayor Fine, Ms. Cormack, Mr. DuBois, Ms. Kniss, Ms. Kou, and Mr.
Tanaka,
Apparently interim Planning Director Jonathan Lait has unilaterally rejected the Architectural Review
Board’s December recommendation to locate underground the cell towers Crown Castle/Verizon has
applied to install in the University South neighborhood. Instead, Mr. Lait approved a Crown Castle
pole-mounted cell tower design, and he did so having never seen a photo, photo simulation or
mock-up of the towers he approved. (Please see the attached article from the San Jose Mercury
News.)

Staff has apparently already proposed an amendment to the Wireless Ordinance that gives the
Director of Planning sole authority over establishing a new set of aesthetic standards for the siting
and appearance of cell towers.
These are yet more alarming examples of City of Palo staff trying to ignore or bypass altogether the
views and reccommendations of citizen-staffed oversight groups and make ill-informed, unilateral
decisions that affect our residents and business interests.
This is a trend that should be stopped immediately. Especially when one considers that the City
should be building trust, consensus and rapport with its residents and various business interests even
as such vastly greater and more disruptive issues such as the impending changes to the rail corridor
approach us...
Michael Maurier
Fairmede Avenue
Greenacres One




                                                        1
Carnahan, David

From:                Clerk, City
Sent:                Sunday, January 13, 2019 6:53 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             FW: 1/15/19 San Jose Mercury News article
Attachments:         Resident group blasts city ruling on cell towers.jpeg




Thanks and have a great day.

B‐

Beth Minor, City Clerk
City of Palo Alto
250 Hamilton Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94301
(650)329‐2379




From: Jeanne Fleming <jfleming@metricus.net>
Sent: Sunday, January 13, 2019 6:28 PM
To: Filseth, Eric (Internal) <Eric.Filseth@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Fine, Adrian <Adrian.Fine@CityofPaloAlto.org>;
alisonlcormack@cityofpaloalto.org; DuBois, Tom <Tom.DuBois@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Kniss, Liz (internal)
<Liz.Kniss@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Kou, Lydia <Lydia.Kou@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Tanaka, Greg
<Greg.Tanaka@CityofPaloAlto.org>
Cc: Architectural Review Board <arb@cityofpaloalto.org>; Planning Commission
<Planning.Commission@cityofpaloalto.org>; Clerk, City <city.clerk@cityofpaloalto.org>
Subject: 1/15/19 San Jose Mercury News article

Dear Mayor Filseth, Vice-Mayor Fine, Ms. Cormack, Mr. DuBois, Ms. Kniss, Ms. Kou and Mr. Tanaka,

In case you haven’t seen it, I’m attaching an article from today’s Mercury News on the City Planning
Director’s ruling on the design for cell towers in University South.

Regarding this decision: Jonathan Lait’s unprecedented break with practice in unilaterally rejecting
the ARB’s recommendation—and rejecting it in favor of a cell tower design he has never seen—has
infuriated many residents.

So have his contrived excuses for his actions. Consider: Mr. Lait says he approved the new Crown
Castle/Verizon University South cell tower design a) without consulting the experts on the ARB, and


                                                             1
b) without having seen a photo, photo simulation or mock-up of what the installations actually look
like, because the law requires the City to make a decision on them by February 7th.

But it was Mr. Lait who sat on the final Crown Castle/Verizon Cluster 2 applications for months so he
could schedule them for ARB review at the last minute, and in the hyper-busy-for-residents holiday
season to boot.

This is the same person who is now asking you to approve an amended Wireless Ordinance that
gives him the sole authority to establish aesthetic standards for the siting and appearance of cell
towers next to people’s home.

Surely Palo Altans deserve better than that.

Sincerely,

Jeanne Fleming

Jeanne Fleming, PhD
JFleming@Metricus.net
650-325-5151




                                                   2
 BB    BAY AREA NEWS GROUP             111                                                                                                                    SUNDAY, JANUARY 13, 2019

 PALO ALTO


 Resident group blasts city ruling on cell towers
 By Kevin Kelly                    devices to Verizon - bring       Neighbors spokeswoman           the applicant. Though the       the ground and possibly in-    which is rustic with a lot
 kkelly@
                                   a different proposal to the      Jeanne Fleming said in          city has placed other util-     trusive to sidewalk access.    of trees, no sidewalks and
 bayareanewsgroup.com              board for review.                the letter.                     ities below ground in the       He said Crown Castle may       heavily burdened poles, it
                                      Jeanne Fleming, spokes-          Lait on Friday said he       neighborhood per city pol-      now need to apply for ad-      may very well be better,"
     A grassroots group in         woman for United Neigh-          made his decision because       icy, he said a consultant       ditional devices atop more     Furth said. "Very large,
  Palo Alto that last year lost    bors, said her group is con-     there is no time to send it     told the city it would be       poles to achieve its desired   obtrusive equipment is not
  an appeal to force new cell      sidering appealing the de-       back to the board for fur-      "very difficult" to place un-   cell coverage because of the   good in most locations."
  tower equipment under-           cision to the City Council,      ther review and he already      derground additional util-      smaller size.                      Lait approved five cell
  ground is gearing up for        .which it must do by Friday,      anticipated the decision        ities.                             Wynne Furth, chair of       towers in the neighbor-
  another fight.                   which is 14 days after the       might be appealed to the           "My takeaway from            the Architectural Review       hood, on streetlights adja•
     United Neighbors, in a        project was approved.            council. According to rules     the Architectural Review        Board, confirmed the de-       cent to 275 Forest Ave.; 248
  letter issued Thursday, ac-         The group alleged Lait        set by the Federal Com-         Board is that they do not       vices Lait approved were       and 385 Homer Ave.; 845
  cuses Jonathan Lait, the         made his decision without        munications Commission,         have an objection to the        never "explicitly discussed"   Ramona St.; and 190 Chan-
  city's interim planning di-      knowing what the design          which oversees telecommu-       antennas and antenna            by the board and never re-     ning Ave. Two other towers
  rector, of approving a new       he chose will look like. It is   nications projects, the city    shrouds," Lait said. "We        viewed at public meetings,     were denied: one adjacent
  set of cell towers with all      not a design the board re-       has to make a decision by       believe that the smaller        but said moving to smaller     to 345 Forest Ave., because
  the equipment placed in          viewed or that Crown Cas-        Feb. 7, which is 100 days af-   equipment that is least         devices bodes well for fu-     it is too close to the historic
  shrouds atop streetlight         tle proposed.                    ter the city received the ap-   intrusive to the environ-       ture cell tower applica-       Laning Chateau apartment
  poles, against the advice           "Jonathan Lait, who           plication. If appealed, the     ment is what we're seek-        tions. The board advised       building; and tb.e other ad-
  of the Architectural Review      is not an architect, has         council tentatively would       ing as long as it can pro-      the planning director on       jacent to 905 Waverley St.,
  Board. In December, the          thrown out the recommen-         review it at its Feb. 4 meet-   vide the service the appli-     aesthetics of new construc-    because it would involve
  board had recommended            dations of Palo Alto's Ar-       ing, Lait said.                 cant is seeking."               tion, but the director does    the installation of a new
  all equipment other than         chitectural Review Board            The interim director said       The devices Lait ap-         not have to heed its recom-    streetlight pole, which the
• antennas be placed into          and approved Crown Cas-          he made his decision while      proved are smaller than         mendations.                    city is· "unwilling to do."
  sidewalk vaults or that          tle's cell towers without        keeping in mind the con-        those Crown Castle pro-            "In a very different set-
  Crown Castle - the appli-        even seeing what they ac-        cerns of the review board,      posed, which would have         ting, which is over by May-    Contact Kevin Kelly at
  cant which will lease the        tually look like," United        community members and           been bulkier, mounted to        field and Barron parks,        650-391-1049.
Carnahan, David

From:             John Kelley <jkelley@399innovation.com>
Sent:             Friday, January 11, 2019 8:56 PM
To:               Council, City
Subject:          See also the California construction figures for 1983-1991 ---Re: FYI: How California can build 3.5
                  million new homes – Alfred Twu – Medium




                                                          1
Source: http://www.dof.ca.gov/Forecasting/Economics/Indicators/Construction_Permits/ — "Annual data, from 1960:

       • California and U.S. Residential Building Permits and U.S. Housing Starts”

Cited in https://medium.com/@firstcultural/how‐california‐can‐build‐3‐5‐million‐new‐homes‐dfe2f0ba3466 (see below)




"Let’s do this — we’ve done it before
In the mid-1980s, California built 200,000–300,000 new homes a year,
back when the state population was about 2/3rds of what it is today. 3.5
million new homes in the next few years is an attainable goal, and one we
ought to work towards."


       On Jan 11, 2019, at 8:11 PM, John Kelley <jkelley@399innovation.com> wrote:


       https://medium.com/@firstcultural/how‐california‐can‐build‐3‐5‐million‐new‐homes‐dfe2f0ba3466


       Best, John

       (Mobile. Brief. Please excuse.)




                                                           2
Carnahan, David

From:             iasdesigns@aol.com
Sent:             Thursday, January 10, 2019 10:35 PM
To:               Alison.Cormack@cityofpaloalto.org; Council, City
Cc:               iqbalserang@gmail.com; KaoKaren007@gmail.com; michelle.kraus@carbontracing.com;
                  cckellogg@gmail.com; catbox@googlegroups.com; forrest.glick@gmail.com;
                  irfan.mirdad@gmail.com; irfan.rydhan@gmail.com; jeff@levinsky.org
Subject:          URGENT: RESIDENTS PLEA for EXTENSION at HOTEL PRESIDENT APARTMENTS
Attachments:      APPEAL LTTR to COUNCIL 011019.pdf



Dear Ms. Cormack; I am writing this appeal to you being the freshest member on this
historic Council,,, Welcome!!! And sorry for a tough option brought directly to your
attention, I hope you take bold steps where required, and can follow through with some
leadership?
Please see the attached letter.

Thanking you,
Sincerely,

Iqbal Serang, and
Dennis Backlund.




                                                     1
Member of City Council,
Palo Alto City Hall,
250 Hamilton Ave.
Palo Alto, Ca. 94301.
City.council@cityofpaloalto.com

January 10, 2019.


RE: URGENT: RESIDENTS PLEA FOR EXTENSION AT HOTEL PRESIDENT APARTMENT:


Dear Ms. Cormack: Welcome as the newest member of the historic 7 member City Council.
There are only 20 days left for us to clear out of our homes of 28, and 37 years and yet, we still
do not have an equivalent place to go to and call home. Just this fact would be full of
unimaginable stress and anxiety for anyone; let alone the seniors, single parents, disabled
persons, teachers, professionals, entrepreneurs and retirees, to state a few of the “workforce”
people living as a community at this compact 75 unit historic Hotel President Apartments.

As you may recall last Monday, some of us made requests asking for specific help from Council
to make a non-binding suggestion to the landlord (A. J. Capital) to extend our stay till they
receive permit, or at least till June 31, 2019. Especially since this extension cannot possibly harm
their “bottom line” and instead would only enhance it. Also this would complement the city’s
own Ordinance, PAMC 9.68.030, and 9.68.030.e3, not being observed today. (Requirement of
one year leases.) And it would only revert us back to our original agreed expectation with the
landlord, which seemed to have been thwarted by actions taken in December by City Council,
which brought the worst possible action upon us the residents, by bringing forward our deadline
to vacate to an earlier outcome of January 31, 2019.

Following are some more personal thoughts on the subject of rental housing shortages, and the
city’s record with this current issue and effects of evictions on our vulnerable "workforce" and
citizens of all ages. We are under assault literally, and many will be forced to leave the area
completely.
This is a perfect example of how this city's policies bringing success at business development,
while falling short on housing provisions, this creates conditions for losing talented and urgently
needed fabric for our growing communities. Just by simply not providing adequate support for
already existing moderately affordable housing units in designated transit areas of the downtown.
Apart from the failure of political and moral leadership, it is a logistical and strategic loss to our
entire Palo Alto community and its future, because at the current rate of housing development,
how long could it take to replace those 75 units of compact housing? Perhaps 5, 7, or even 10, or
more years? Isn't that tragic for a forward-thinking city like Palo Alto, where there is already a
huge shortage by hundreds of units even today? Is it at all possible to influence a different
outcome? I sincerely hope so. Is this particular issue of strategic value to the citizens of Palo
Alto? If it is, I hope you can take the lead in making a difference for us all.
Dennis and I appeal to you personally for your help, and want to know if we are asking too
much? Or are we being unreasonable in our expectations? We don’t understand why our cause is
not the cause of every city leader of this area? Especially, when we get so many comments of
support from conscientious residents of this fair city, and even all across the Bay Area and
further.


Thanking you.
Sincerely,


Iqbal Serang, and Dennis Backlund.


488 University Avenue, #307, & #503
Palo Alto, Ca. 94301.
(650) 906-7059. (650) 326-8472.
IqbalSerang@gmail.com
                                                                                                                 ~l~ t1'"iir
                                                                                                                '"J°O\\ Lo.a't
                                                                          '"N.
                                                                           -. - :.
                                                                                                                 ~Ft~
                                                                  ' 41-
                                                                ·'!'
                                                                 ''{r.,,,..j
                                                                      .'
                                                                                 r
                                                                                 .

© Castilleja                                                    \•-~~/
                                                                   ' •I                                    1310 Bryant Street
                                                                                                          Palo Alto. CA 94301
                                                                 ~- -~                                          650.328.3160
                                                        2019 JAN 14 PH 2: Oi                                     casti Ileja.org

                                                                n U. ~ h'E O                              Nanci Z. Kauffman
January 9, 2019                                         CITY HANA.Gr~ 'S IFFIC£                                Hedd of School



Palo Alto City Council
Palo Alto City Hall
250 Hamilton Ave
Palo Alto, CA 94301

RE:        Castilleja School Pending Application
           1310 Bryant Street and 1235, 1263 Emerson Street, Palo Alto
           [lGPLN-00258] [SCH#2017012052]


To City Manager Ed Shikada and Members of the Palo Alto City Council:

Thank you for allowing the community to engage with you Monday night in honoring former council
members and welcoming newly elected ones. As the city embarks on a new year of service, Castilleja
School would like to take the opportunity to revisit our pending application with Incumbent and new
members of the Council. As you may know, Castilleja has educated young women In Palo Alto since
1907, and at Its current location since 1910. Our pending application is comprehensive In that it reflects
 the school's plans for growth and modernization for the foreseeable·future. Our goal Is to enable more
 young women who reside in Palo Alto and surrounding communities to be educated at our 5th_12lh grade
 campus, the only non-sectarian all women independent middle and high school In the Bay Area.

 In simplest terms, our application requests:

      1.   a Conditional Use Permit amendment to Increase enrollment to 540 students
      2.   a master plan and architectural approvals (by phase)
      3.   a tentative map with exception
      4.   a variance to maintain existing above grade floor area;
      5.   a 11ariance for below grade setback encroachments related to the underground parking structure

 Castilleja devised its master plan not only to allow for a sustainable, energy efficient campus, compatible
 with the neighborhood, but also to minimize impacts. Specific elements include the following:

      •    Ensuring no new vehicle trips through an aggressive traffic demand management plan and third-
           party audits.
      •    Moving deliveries and service functions below grade to minimize noise.
      •    Relocating the pool below grade and adding a sound wall.
      •    Reducing at-grade drop off and pick up locations.
      •    Creating a half-acre community park for the neighbo-rhood, which contributes to an overall
           increase in open space.
      •    Reducing the number of on-campus events.




                                                                               \I (J111e11   Lrnmi11.~.   II (J111c11   Lcr1rli11.~~
      •   Relocating on-street parking on-campus and underground, beneath a well-landscaped playing
          field, to free up on-street parking for residents.
      •   Gradually increasing enrollment, contingent on meeting traffic demand management
          requirements.

We want to reiterate that the proposed enrollment increase would take place over a period of four
years, and Is conditioned on maintaining specific trip counts to avoid significant impacts. Finally, if
approved, the project construction is proposed to occur over a period of no more than 3 years.

We look forward to reviewing the Draft Environmental Impact Report, which we understand is due to be
circulated for public comment later this month. We also welcome the opportunity to meet individually
with any members of the City Council either at City Hall or on the Castilleja campus, so you may learn
more about our mission and proposed plans.

Sincerely,




Nanci Kauffman



Cc:       Jonathan Lalt, Interim Director of Planning and Community Environment

          Amy French, Chief Planning Official




                                                                      \\omen Leaming: \\omen Leading:
              PALO ALTO                      12s:~~~PA.fi.O ~~fsQ ~21 9709        pah.community
              HOUSING                        Palo ~f,-;ft~F{   ·s ·QM.-~21 4341
                                                 19 JAN 15 AM If: 06
 January 10, 2019


 Honorable City Council
 City of Palo Alto
 250 Hamilton Avenue
 Palo Alto, CA 94301

 Re: Annual Payment to the City for Market Rate Units at Webster Wood
 Apartments

 Mayor Filseth and Members of the Council:

 We are pleased to inform you that Palo Alto Housing has made its thirty-seventh
 annual payment to the City of Palo Alto pursuant to the Agreement for Sale for the
 land upon which Webster Wood Apartments is built. The payment is in the amount
 of $6,175 and covers the period from January through December 2018. This
 payment brings the total amount contributed since 1982 to $255,750.

 Palo Alto Housing volunteered to make these annual payments to the City, beginning
 in the fourth year after the close of escrow, in an amount equal to $300.00 for each
 market rate unit at Webster Wood Apartments. This contribution goes into the
 City's Housing Reserve Fund to assist with future needs for affordable housing. We
 are pleased to make this annual payment in recognition of the benefits the City has
 provided to the low- and moderate- income families who live at Webster Wood
 Apartments.




 Randal Tsuda
 President & CEO



 cc: Jonathan Lait, Director of Planning and Community Environment
     Hang Huynh, Senior Planner

 Enclosures




BUILDING STORIES THAT MATTER
                           \VEBSTER WOOD APARTMENTS
                         PAYMENTS TO CITY OF PALO ALTO
                             FOR MARKET-RATE UNITS

      Payment#                Year          Amount       Accumulated Total
         1                    1982           $3,625           $3,625
         2                    1983            5,575            9,200
         3                    1984           5,175            14,375
         4                    1985            6,775           21,150
         5                    1986           6,600            27,750
         6                    1987           6,550            34,300
         7                    1988           6,650            40,950
         8                    1989           7,325            48,275
         9                    1990           7,675            55,950
           IO                 1991           9,425            65,375
           11                 1992           9,600            74,975
           12                 1993           9,250            84,225
           13                 1994           8,950            93,175
           14                 1995           8,650           101,825
           15                 1996           8,300           110,125
           16                 1997           8,475           118,600
           17                 1998           8,900           127,500
           18                 1999           9,650           137,150
           19                 2000           8,875           146,025
           20                 2001           9,525           155,550
           21                 2002           8,750           164,300
           22                 2003           8,350           172,650
           23                 2004           5,850           178,500
           24                 2005           5,625           184,125
           25                 2006           6,175           190,300
           26                 2007           6,000           196,300
           27                 2008           5,625           201,925
           28                 2009           5,250           207,175
           29                 2010           4,475           211,650
           30                 2011           4,425           216,075
           31                 2012           5,500           221,575
           32                 2013           5,450           227,025
           33                 2014           5,175           232,200
           34                 2015           5,650           237,850
           35                 2016           5,875           243,725
           36                 2017           5,850           249,575
           37                 2018            6,175          255,750




WWCityPayrnents 1-2019
   WEBSTER WOOD APARTMENTS
          MARKET UNITS 2018
 MONTH         #UNITS   $25/UNIT          TOTAL
 JANUARY         20     $     25.00   $     500.00
FEBRUARY         20     $     25.00   $     500.00
 MARCH           20     $     25.00   $     500.00
  APRIL          20     $     25.00   $     500.00
  MAY            20     $     25.00   $     500.00
  JUNE           20     $     25.00   $     500.00
  JULY           21     $     25.00   $     525.00
 AUGUST          22     $     25.00   $     550.00
SEPTEMBER        21     $     25.00   $     525.00
 ocro·BER        21     $     25.00   $     525.00
NOVEMBER         21     $     25.00   $     525.00
DECEMBER         21     $     25.00   $     525.00
 TOTAL          247                   $   6,175.00
RETURN ADDRESS:




I support Castilleja's proposal to
increase enrollment and modernize its
campus because ...




                                        Office of the Clerk
                                        Please distribute to all City Coum.11   i.~.:111u~1 ~

                                        250 Hamilton Avenue, 7th Floor
                                        Palo Alto, CA, 94301
  I support Castilleja's proposal to
  increase enrollment and modernize its
  campus because ...



                ::~~
                .;r ~I d-t ~  /JC
                                                                   '!I
                                                                    ~
        ~                                   Office of the Clerk

        .fld   r~ 1lr, 'vf'.r-e
                                            Please distribute to all City Council Members
  -to                                       250 Hamilton Avenue, 7th Floor
                                            Palo Alto, CA, 94301
  ZF?.
 / /.:..
  -41?v~ r ~                              ,,,_/_p_       /11
430itjs~ fo . /~,11(ifnmei1· fJll\T.111ri!iiQfl1P~~;1i ..
  _ _ 7~ ~~ ~~~ r~d.;>
