            DOCUMENTS IN THIS PACKET INCLUDE:


                LETTERS FROM CITIZENS TO THE
                   MAYOR OR CITY COUNCIL


    RESPONSES FROM STAFF TO LETTERS FROM CITIZENS


        ITEMS FROM MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS


      ITEMS FROM OTHER COMMITTEES AND AGENCIES


ITEMS FROM CITY, COUNTY, STATE, AND REGIONAL AGENCIES




       Prepared for:           1/29/2018
       Document dates: 1/10/2018 – 1/17/2018

                                Set 1
 Note: Documents for every category may not have been received for packet
                      reproduction in a given week.




                                                                      701-32
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/17/2018 1:10 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Mary Ann Young <mayoung632@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Tuesday, January 16, 2018 8:34 PM
To:                             French, Amy; Lee, Elena; Council, City; Thao Nguyen; Haley Minick; Chad Bowling;
                                Danny Petrick; Emily Gray
Subject:                        401 Lytton Avenue bench complaint



Dear Amy, Elena and the City Council,

This is concerning an email sent by Geetha Srikantan to you concerning the "bench".

I would like to voice my opinion on the bench on Waverley and
Lytton Avenues, which is adjacent to 401 Lytton --- the structure that is in the process of being renovated and
occupied by Ike's within the next few months and also across the street from downtown's 7-11.

I own the property at 375 Waverley, which is a triplex located near the corner of Waverley and Lytton. Ms.
Srikantan, occupies the property adjacent to 401 Lytton. Her home is between my property and 401 Lytton.

The last tenant of the 401 Lytton space was John's Cafe and it was a lovely place, well kept and a positive asset
to the community; unfortunately in trying to maintain and update his venue, he offered music on some evenings
and Ms. Srikatan was opposed and inconvenienced by this measure. Hopefully the new tenants, Ike's, will be
greeted with enthusiasm and maintain the area around the bench as did John's Cafe.

Since I am mostly at the property at 375 Waverley during the daytime hours I have noticed many people using
the bench, such as the elderly walking with assistance. I asked my four tenants how they felt about the bench
and all are opposed to removing the bench. They also agree that there is a decent amount of trash that
accumulates on the corner, however, once Ike's moves in I'm sure they will care for the property and also
appreciate the bench.

One tenant writes, "I really disagree with the idea that removing a nearby bench is going to somehow change
the realities of our neighborhood, especially with 7-11 across the street. We also have homeless neighbors who
need places to sit...the city has already taken away most of their public bathrooms and I see city benches as
small spots of dignity. I also take issue with the idea of spending city time and resources on removing a bench
that isn't posing a danger to anyone. After 8 years, I can count the times we've woken up from late night noise
from 7-11 or drunk people walking home from the bars on the weekend."

I also believe that Palo Alto is a community of varying generations, ethnicities, a range of income brackets from
poverty to inconceivable wealth. This is a reality that exists and in this community; we have families who may
own
multiple homes, we have foreign investment in business and real estate and also citizens who will never have
the opportunity to own a home in Palo Alto, or even be able to afford to rent housing in Palo Alto. This is a very
complicated issue and it has engulfed our community. It's not about the bench!

In this era of gentrification, we have a community of people who are homeless, jobless and/or mentally
disadvantaged, some born and raised in our community. We have teenagers who can't cope with the stress of
living in a community of constant competition and pressures beyond the norm. I often think of how, in this
community, if we don't fit in the box we are of no value.
                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/17/2018 1:10 PM

And I want to know that the residents of our City, jobless or not, have a place to sit, to read the paper, to enjoy a
bit of time during their day, whether it be a fun filled busy day or just another day that will pass.

Again, please consider the rights of humanity in an era that human rights and dignity are being challenged.

I thank my tenants for their input in this issue.

Sincerely,

Mary Ann Young
Palo Alto, California




                                                          2
                                                                                        COUNCIL MEETING
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/12/2018 10:02 AM                                    01/22/2018            13
                                                                                        ✔
                                                                                            Received Before Meeting
Carnahan, David

From:                               Gitelman, Hillary
Sent:                               Thursday, January 11, 2018 4:23 PM
To:                                 Council, City
Cc:                                 Nadia Naik; Elizabeth Alexis (ealexis@gmail.com); Monroe, Margaret
Subject:                            FW: Comments for City Council about Stanford GUP
Attachments:                        Excerpt of Stanford GUP 2018 Transportation Chapter SU_Gup2018_DEIR_Vol2.pdf


Mayor Kniss and Councilmembers,

Happy New Year.

The comments below are intended to inform your January 22nd conversation about Stanford GUP Draft EIR
comments. We missed the noon deadline to get these into the packet, but wanted you to have them well in advance of
the meeting. Please let us know if you have questions before the meeting (and please do not “reply all.”)

Regards, Hillary


              Hillary Gitelman | Planning Director | P&CE Department
              250 Hamilton Avenue | Palo Alto, CA 94301
              T: 650.329.2321 |E: hillary.gitelman@cityofpaloalto.org

              Please think of the environment before printing this email – Thank you!




From: Nadia Naik [mailto:nadianaik@gmail.com]
Sent: Thursday, January 11, 2018 3:04 PM
To: Gitelman, Hillary
Cc: Elizabeth Alexis; Lee, Elena; Keene, James; DuBois, Tom; Scharff, Gregory (internal); Shikada, Ed; Fine, Adrian;
Filseth, Eric (Internal)
Subject: Comments for City Council about Stanford GUP

Hi Hillary,

Per your request, here's the best comments I have for now to include in the City Council packet on the issue of
the GUP. Elizabeth is unavailable, but she will likely add more in the coming days.

At a high level, our biggest concern is about the dependence of Stanford's proposed TDM program to mitigate
traffic. They (seem) to rely heavily on Caltrain which is already at capacity.

The most important thing Palo Alto can do is request that Stanford share their detailed Marguerite data
with the City ASAP. (more on this below)

We have a meeting in the coming weeks that is being coordinated by Supervisor Simitian's office for us to meet
with Arup (the consultants responsible for the Transportation portion of the GUP). We may have more insights
on this once we've met with them.

                                                                1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/12/2018 10:02 AM
Best,
Nadia



1) Neighborhood Impacts

In figure 5.15-9 (I've also attached an excerpt for you to view it), they show the neighborhoods that border the
campus that were considered for assessment.




The map has a few errors/omissions. For example, what they've colored in as Crescent Park is actually Crescent
Park AND part of Duveneck/St. Francis. Evergreen park is also incorrect (it extends to the other side of
Oregon).

They don't consider Old Palo Alto (even though Churchill runs through it), Professorville, University South,
Community Center, Leland Manor, Triple El, etc.

In addition, the figure is deceiving because it colors in a variety of neighborhoods that it CONSIDERED, but
ultimately, Stanford decided that only 2 neighborhoods would be impacted: College Terrace (which makes
sense given proximity) and Crescent Park!

When discussing why they've selected those neighborhoods, they write in part:


                                                        2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/12/2018 10:02 AM
    1. Instead of passing through the Southgate and Evergreen Park neighborhoods, travelers accessing the Stanford
        campus use Churchill Avenue along the northern edge of the Southgate neighborhood or Oregon Expressway and
        El Camino Real to the south and west, respectively. As these roadways are located on the edge of the
        neighborhoods, through traffic is not expected to travel within the neighborhoods. Therefore, these neighborhoods
        were not included in the Neighborhood Streets assessment, which focuses on pass through trips.

It's incorrect to say they don't impact Southgate since they are traveling along the "edge" given the
only way in or out of Southgate is really through Churchill.

Also, as you may recall from Josh Mello's presentation at the first Community Workshop, in terms of
grade crossings, Churchill has the most emergency vehicles crossing (thus traffic on that street also
impacts Emergency response time).




2) Worker distribution

I've attached the page from the very back of Vol 2 where there is one sentence in the "Notes" of the data chart
that says

"The commute survey data used in Table 11 did not provide data on workers in the "Other workers" category.
This analysis assumes that the distribution of Other Worker households will be the same as the distribution of
Staff households"

This is likely not a correct assumption since elsewhere (pg 7) they describe "Other Workers" as


Other Worker Populations

The “Other Worker” population segments are presented separately from the faculty, staff, and student populations
because many members of these populations do not work on the campus on a daily or year-round basis or are not directly
employed by Stanford. The Other Worker populations are divided into the following categories: contingent,5 casual,6
temporary workers,7 other nonemployee academic affiliates,8 third party contract workers,9 janitorial contract workers,10

                                                            3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/12/2018 10:02 AM
and construction contract workers.11

5 Salariedworkers with roles that are comparable to academic staff and Other Teaching, working less than 50% FTE and/or working less than six
months
6 Hourly workers less than 50% FTE and working no more than 980 hours a year, including summer camp staff, summer grounds/facilities work, and

special projects in academic units

7 Hourly  workers at 50% FTE or more working no longer than six months, including summer camp staff, summer grounds/facilities work, and special
projects in academic units

8 Affiliatedteaching staff, adjunct professors, and visiting scholars, typically not full time, approximately half of this category of workers are 20%
FTE
9 Food service workers at on-campus cafeterias, and childcare center workers
10 Working off-peak hour morning and evening shifts



11 Related   to ongoing construction projects on campus

-----

Clearly, hourly workers, visiting scholars, food service workers, etc. are not likely to have similar salaries, live in the
same cities or commute in similar ways to Staff which are defined as:

'“Staff” refers to regular benefits-eligible employees generally in nonacademic positions such as human resources,
information technology, facilities, financial aid, etc. '

3) Caltrain

Stanford plans to have "No Net New trips" associated with this expansion relies heavily on their TDM program. They don't describe the
program fully, but in one scenario they lay out, they are relying almost exclusively on Caltrain.

Very important: From an EIR standpoint, Caltrain's comments or presentations are considered sufficient analysis to back up their claims.
Therefore, if there is incorrect or misleading information that is used, Stanford will be able to say they tried their best. Unfortunately,
Caltrain's business plan is no where near being done, so Stanford will have a hard time getting real data from Caltrain since it is being
developed.

I've suggested to Caltrain that they consider sending a formal comment to the GUP. I'm encouraged them to be clear about what they might
need to meet future capacity and to not overstate what they think the might have.

 This allows commenters (like us or the City of Palo Alto) to recommend Stanford pay for specific mitigations even if there is a chance that
might get paid for later by some other source. In other words, Caltrain shouldn't overstate what it has for fear of being attacked as inadequate
- better to say they don't have it!

Caltrain in the DEIR

Best place to read Caltrain EIR related stuff is here:

https://www.sccgov.org/sites/dpd/DocsForms/Documents/SU_Gup2018_DEIR_Vol2.pdf

Start around page 168.

As an overview, here are the general mistakes in their assumptions/calculations:

1) Stanford says at peak hour they only impact the Cal Ave and San Carlos station - which makes no sense - what about University
Ave?

They took the ridership data for Caltrain (including the baby bullets) and tried to average out the data between PA and SF and between PA
and SJ. They then roughly plotted it geographically and decided it was closest to Cal Ave and San Carlos (despite the fact that the Baby
Bullet doesn't even stop there). In Math terms, they took a step-function analysis and tried to smooth out the data.

2) they tried to figure out future Caltrain capacity - but failed for several reasons:
                                                                            4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/12/2018 10:02 AM

        a) They under estimate Caltrain's current capacity AND overestimated Caltrain's future capacity.

        b) capacity for trains is hard to forecast. It depends not only on the schedule you run and the load factor, but also which equipment is
        used to configure the trains (some train cars have more seats than others - like ones with bathrooms or bikes, etc.)

        c) They assigned themselves capacity on trains passing through PA but not actually stopping in PA because they just counted what
        trains go through in an hour.

        d) They didn't account for the fact that other people might want to take the train besides Stanford people, and thus, they assigned
        themselves all available space on the train.

3) What about future transit capacity generally?

In 2035, we may well have TransBay terminal as the new endpoint for Caltrain. There are more jobs in a 1/2 mile radius around TransBay
than there are in the 1/2 mile radius from the current end point of 4th and King all the way to Gilroy COMBINED!

That means if/when TransBay happens - Caltrain ridership would double - but how do you capture any of that in an EIR? Or even general
Caltrain ridership growth given the only stated plan thus far is one more train after electrification?


4) Marguerite Data

The Marguerite shuttle data is vital because it would help correlate the Caltrain ridership data with the bus data to see where Stanford people
actually get on and get off. We have asked for this data (and so has Supervisor Simitian's office) and we are getting stonewalled.

The City of Palo Alto should request the data from Stanford. It will help the City plan more effectively and it is the only way to
validate Stanford's data.

We know that Marguerite is equipped with the same types of counters that VTA uses and that feeds the data that VTA posts on their website.
They have every bus route and stop, on every single run a bus takes every single day, all year long. For example: You can look up the 9:03
bus on route 35 on July 2 and see how many people got on and off at each station.

The Marguerite data will provide similar boarding and alighting info for all shuttles on all routes and at all stops for academic days and non-
academic days over the course of the year. Since each Marguerite shuttle is coordinated with Caltrain's schedule, the interplay of these two
data sources will give us a lot of information about how the systems interact with each other and help with future capacity planning.

It would be great to combine the VTA, SamTrans, Caltrain and Marguerite data to really understand how people are getting to "metro
Stanford" (Research Park, Hospital, shopping and Academic campus). Travel time patterns will also be highlighted in this data. Palo Alto's
traffic consultant highlighted this issue in their GUP comments. It could clarify the questions raised about "peak spreading"
(Stanford defined their peak periods as 7-8 AM and 5-6 PM, but we think it should be longer)


5) TDM and System capacity

CEQA experts have pointed out that Caltrain is an unusual example because normally in the EIR process, an applicant can always simply say
that commuters will take public transit and there has never been a concern that the transit system couldn't handle it. However, we all know
Caltrain is special!

Stanford's TDM has been so successful that it has created a new "good" problem - we need more T for the TDM programs.

An idea is that there should be some centralized "bank" where someone attempts to count how much future TDMs will rely on Caltrain. This
will help Caltrain develop their business plan and accurately predict how much future transit need their might be. At a minimum, Palo Alto
should be doing this so we can report to Caltrain what we are expecting our needs will be.

Just like was done with housing in the past, one idea is to limit Stanford's growth such that it is directly proportionate to the amount that
public transit (Caltrain especially) is able to add capacity (thereby forcing them to finally REALLY get involved with Caltrain). What might
those transportation triggers look like?

This strategy would also force Stanford to get serious about paying for mitigations. In each instance they list a potential mitigation, they
always say they would pay "Stanford's fair-share" and then describes that if other entities (like the City of Palo Alto or Caltrans) don't also
put in money, then the mitigation will not likely be implemented. That's really not going to work given our current situation.

                                                                        5
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/12/2018 10:02 AM

Stanford could also pay for specific mitigations like lengthening platforms so we can add capacity by running longer trains or they could help
fund grade separations.

Here's an article detailing how VTA light rail got some platform lengthening done as a mitigation for Levi Stadium but how that was not
enough and as a result, the county is now on the hook for millions.

http://transportchoice.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/02/HowShouldPublicTransitBe-EvaluatedFeb2017.pdf


Let me know if you have any questions.

Nadia




On Tue, Jan 9, 2018 at 3:32 PM, Gitelman, Hillary <Hillary.Gitelman@cityofpaloalto.org> wrote:

Hi Nadia:



I will ask Elena (copied here) to send you a link to the new Transportation Element. We don’t have a tracked changes
version because there was so much reorganization.



Also, if you have any materials you want us to include in our staff report to the City Council (about their comment letter
on the GUP Draft EIR), we would need it before Thursday when the agenda packet goes out. You or we can always send
things to the Council separately if that timeframe doesn’t work for you. This is scheduled for their meeting of January
22.



Happy New Year,



Hillary




                Hillary Gitelman | Planning Director | P&CE Department
                250 Hamilton Avenue | Palo Alto, CA 94301
                T: 650.329.2321 |E: hillary.gitelman@cityofpaloalto.org


                Please think of the environment before printing this email – Thank you!




                                                                      6
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/12/2018 10:02 AM



From: Nadia Naik [mailto:nadianaik@gmail.com]
Sent: Tuesday, January 09, 2018 1:48 PM
To: Mello, Joshuah; Gitelman, Hillary
Cc: Elizabeth Alexis
Subject: Transportation element of Comp plan?




Dear Hillary and Josh,



Happy New Year! I hope you had a nice break.



I'm working on the Stanford GUP comments with Simitian's office and was wondering if you could send me a
link to the best version of the Comp Plan that has the final Transportation goals and policies?



The GUP currently has the old one and one of my comments is that they include the new Comp Plan, but I'm
looking for the best link to use as a reference. If there is one for just the transportation section, that would be
best.



Also, is there a good "red lined" version showing any changes from the previous one (so that I can see if I can
identify changes that we might be able to turn into a suggestion for Stanford)?



I have a meeting with the Stanford consultants next week, so sooner is better.



Thanks in advance for your assistance.



Nadia




                                                          7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Bayfr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ont E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       xpy




                                                                                                                                                                           e
                                                                                                                                                                         Av




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      University Ave
                                                                                                                                                                                                            d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     }
                                                                                                                                                                        5th




                                                                                                                                                                                                          hR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        114




                                                                                                                                                                                                           rs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ba




                                                                                                                                                                                                        Ma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  y   Rd
                                                                                                                                                         North Fair Oaks                                                                                                                           East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         £
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ¤
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         101                     Palo Alto

                                                                                                                                                                                                         Mi                                                                                   Palo Alto                 Weeks
                                                                                                                                                                                                            dd




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ave
                                                                                                      ity                                                                                                        lef
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    iel                                                                         Park                   Gateway
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       dR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                od
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         d                                                                                               101
                                                                                                                                                                      El                                                                                                                                                                       Pulgas




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             wo
                                                                                                                                                                         Ca



                                                                                                                                                                                                                    e
                                                                                                                                                                            m




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Rd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Gardens




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               g
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Av
                                                                                                                                                                                ino




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Rin




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  d
                                                                                                                                                                                      Re
                                                                                                                                                                                                               oo




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       llo
                                                                                                                                                                                        al
W:\San Jose N Drive\Projects\_SJ15_Projects\SJ15_1585_Stanford_GUP_EIR\Graphics\GIS\MXD\Fig08_1_PA_MP_Neighborhoods_Portrait.mxd




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Wi




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Pulgas Ave
                                                                                                                                                                                                            nw
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            La
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Menlo Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Gle


                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ur                                                                             e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  el
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       St
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   er si ty
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Av                         £
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ¤
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 iv
                                                                                                                                                           ve




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Un
                                                                                                                                                         nA




                                                                                                                                                                                                           Un                                                                                 Crescent Park
                                                                                                                                                         r to




                                                                                                                                                                                                             ive
                                                                                                                                                       he




                                                                                                                                                                                                                rsi                                          Downtown
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ty
                                                                                                                                                    At




                                                                                                                                                                                                        ve




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Dr                                  North
                                                                                                                                                                                         e
                                                                                                                                                                                       Av


                                                                                                                                                                                                    zA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Allied                                                                                               R               d
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ru




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ero
                                                                                                                                                                                     so




                                                                                                                                                    Atherton                                                                                                                                                                rcad
                                                                                                                                                                                                    C
                                                                                                                                                                                 rai




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Arts                                                                                    ba
                                                                                                                                                                                                nta




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Em
                                                                                                                                                                             lpa


                                                                                                                                                                                             Sa
                                                                                                                                                                          Va




                                                                                                                                                                                              Central




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          py
                                              el
                                                                                                                                   as




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ex
                                                                                                                                        Pu                                                   Menlo Park




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 on
                                                                                                                                          lga                                                                                                      Arb
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       o




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               eg
                                                                                                                                                s                                                                                                          ret
                                                                                                                                                            University                                                                                         um




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Rd
                                                                                                                                                             Heights                                                                                                                                 Palo Alto
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Southgate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Evergreen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Al
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Stanford                                  Park                 m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        aS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   University                                                             t

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Campus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         rac




                                                                                                                                          Sand Hill Rd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      er
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    eT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  eg
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ll




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Jun
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Co




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ipe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Se

                                                                                                                                                            !
                                                                                                                                                            "
                                                                                                                                                            #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           rra
                                                                                                                                                                280                                                                                              Blv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     d




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Fo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             hil
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 lE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      xp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         y
                                                                                                                                                                                               A




                                                                                                                                    eig                         B     n a ies
                                                                                                                                   Menlo Park                                    East Palo Alto                                 Palo Alto
                                                                                                                                            Allied Arts                                      Weeks Gateway 101                              College Terrace                    Evergreen Park                                          Stanford 2018 General Use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Permit Boundary
                                                                                                                                            Central Menlo Park                               Pulgas Gardens                                 Crescent Park                      Southgate

                                                                                                                                            University Heights                               Palo Alto Park                                 Downtown North                     Stanford University Campus



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Stanford 2018 General Use Permit . 160531
                                                                                                                                   SOURCE: Fehr & Peers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Figure 5.15-9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Location of Neighborhoods Considered
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     for Street Assessment


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5.15-103
5. Environmental Setting, Impacts and Mitigation Measures
5.15 Transportation and Traffic




      •     Downtown North Traffic Calming Study (2004) – This was an effort to restrict through
            movements and turning movements during peak traffic periods to reduce or eliminate
            neighborhood traffic impacts in downtown Palo Alto between Middlefield Road and
            Alma Street. Based on input from the neighborhood, a plan was implemented that
            included the following traffic calming elements:

            –     Street closure at Middlefield Road/Palo Alto Avenue
            –     Traffic circles at the intersections of Everett Avenue/Emerson Street, Hawthorne
                  Avenue/Cowper Street, and Everett Avenue/Webster Street
            –     Speed tables on Palo Alto Avenue and Hawthorne Avenue between Alma Street and
                  Emerson Street
            –     Time-limited left-turn restrictions during the morning and evening peak periods from
                  Alma Street to Hawthorne Avenue and Everett Avenue
            –     Time-limited right-turn restrictions during the morning peak period from Middlefield
                  Road to Hawthorne Avenue and Everett Avenue

            These improvements have been effective at reducing through traffic in Downtown North
            while allowing access and mobility to the residents. For this reason, this neighborhood
            has not been included in the Neighborhood Streets assessment.

      •     College Terrace Traffic Calming Project (2004) – A traffic calming study was
            conducted for the neighborhood to develop additional traffic calming measures to reduce
            the potential for neighborhood traffic impacts from through traffic. College Terrace had a
            number of street closures that were designed to reduce through traffic in the
            neighborhood prior to the 2004 study. A new traffic calming plan was tested that
            included the installation of five traffic circles and five speed tables within the
            neighborhood. Four traffic circles were constructed on College Avenue at Yale Street,
            Oberlin Street, Hanover Street, and Columbia Street. A fifth traffic circle was constructed
            at Yale Street and Cambridge Avenue. Four speed humps were constructed on Stanford
            Avenue and three speed humps on California Avenue. Following a test period, the traffic
            calming plan was refined to include the following improvements:

            –     Traffic circles on Yale Street at College Avenue and Cambridge Avenue
            –     Four speeds humps on Stanford Avenue at Wellesley Street, Oberlin Street,
                  Dartmouth Street, and Amherst Street
            –     Three speed humps on California Avenue at Wellesley Street, Oberlin Street, and
                  Dartmouth Street
            –     Four speed humps on College Avenue at Wellesley Street, Princeton Street, Harvard
                  Street and Dartmouth Street
            –     Center median islands were added at Oberlin Street/College Avenue, Hanover
                  Street/College Avenue and Columbia Street/College Avenue

            The before-and-after studies of the neighborhood indicated that the traffic calming
            program has reduced the number and speed of vehicles in the neighborhood.




Stanford 2018 General Use Permit                            5.15-104                          ESA / D160531
Environmental Impact Report                                                                    October 2017
                                                            5. Environmental Setting, Impacts and Mitigation Measures
                                                                                        5.15 Transportation and Traffic




While there have not been any new traffic calming studies in the Southgate and Evergreen Park
neighborhoods since the preparation of the 2000 General Use Permit, these neighborhoods have
some existing traffic calming features that reduce the potential for vehicle trips through the
neighborhood. Even without the existing traffic calming, the location and design of the roadway
network eliminates any advantage in traveling through the neighborhood to access the Stanford
campus. In addition, there are existing barriers in the Southgate and Evergreen neighborhoods
that make it difficult to use the roadways to pass through the neighborhood, as follows:

      •     The vehicle barrier at the intersection of Castilleja Way and Park Boulevard prevents
            vehicles from cutting through the neighborhood using Serra Street, Park Boulevard,
            Castilleja Way, and Mariposa Avenue to access Churchill Avenue;
      •     A partial barrier on Park Boulevard east of Oxford Avenue prevents westbound cut
            through traffic; and
      •     A road closure on Ash Avenue east of Stanford Avenue prevents pass through trips in
            either direction.

Instead of passing through the Southgate and Evergreen Park neighborhoods, travelers accessing
the Stanford campus use Churchill Avenue along the northern edge of the Southgate
neighborhood or Oregon Expressway and El Camino Real to the south and west, respectively. As
these roadways are located on the edge of the neighborhoods, through traffic is not expected to
travel within the neighborhoods. Therefore, these neighborhoods were not included in the
Neighborhood Streets assessment, which focuses on pass through trips.

The three above-cited East Palo Alto neighborhoods are experiencing increased cut-through
traffic during the economic recovery over the past few years. The Palo Alto Parks neighborhood
lies between Willow Road and University Avenue and extends between US 101 on the south and
Newbridge-Bay Road on the north. This neighborhood experiences cut-through by commuters
traversing between Willow Road and University Avenue in order to avoid congestion on the
arterials. The Weeks-Gateway 101 and Pulgas Garden neighborhoods, located east of University
Avenue, experience cut-through traffic on Clarke Avenue and Pulgas Avenue between East
Bayshore and Bay Road. These roadways parallel University Avenue and serve as bypasses of the
congestion on University Avenue. Traffic using these roadways typically cross US 101 at
Embarcadero Road. The level of cut-through traffic in the East Palo Alto neighborhoods is related
to the growth in both local and regional traffic combined with the limited available capacity on
the major roadways that serve the Dumbarton Bridge. However, the potential for traffic generated
by the proposed 2018 General Use Permit on the area is small based on the trip generation and
trip distribution analyses prepared for this Project, and further analysis of cut-through traffic in
East Palo Alto neighborhoods is not warranted because the number of trips potentially generated
by the Project would be too low to exceed the TIRE index significance threshold.

Based on the effectiveness of prior mitigation strategies described above, the current conditions
within the neighborhoods, and the expected trip distribution and assignment under the proposed
2018 General Use Permit, two neighborhoods in Palo Alto (College Terrace and Crescent Park)
were identified as locations where neighborhood traffic impacts might occur with the proposed
growth in the 2018 General Use Permit. These locations were selected for the following reasons:


Stanford 2018 General Use Permit                5.15-105                                                 ESA / D160531
Environmental Impact Report                                                                               October 2017
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/16/2018 5:24 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                                Jeff Hoel <jeff_hoel@yahoo.com>
Sent:                                Tuesday, January 16, 2018 2:47 PM
To:                                  Council, City
Cc:                                  Hoel, Jeff (external); UAC; CAC-TACC; ConnectedCity
Subject:                             Upgrade Downtown Project -- Item 14 -- 01-22-18 Council meeting


Council members,

Council's 01-22-18 agenda was posted 01-11-18.
https://cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/62863
Here's the staff report (40 pages) for Item 14, which is about the Upgrade Downtown Project.
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/62851

Here are my comments about the staff report.

* It proposes to take $2,140,404 from the Fiber Fund. (That's $1,945,822 plus a 10% contingency.)

* It doesn't show any detailed plans. It doesn't say who designed the conduit-for-fiber part. It doesn't really say what the
conduit-for-fiber will allow the City to do in the future. For example, is the conduit designed to contain the fiber that
passes premises in the FTTP sense? (The staff report didn't say anything about "vaults." Vaults are where drops to
premises are connected to the passing fiber.) How much more will it cost to deploy fiber that passes premises? How
much more will it cost to connect each subscribing premises to the deployed passing fiber?

* We don't yet have a design for citywide FTTP that would show where all of the passing fiber would go. We should get
one ASAP. It won't send passing fiber down every street, avenue, and alley in town. It would be helpful to know whether
University Avenue between Alma and Webster is the best choice.

* I have heard that that omitting the conduit-for-fiber would save only about $0.5 million, and that doing conduit-for-fiber
later (in its own trench) might cost $500 per foot (or $1.374 million for 2,748 feet). If so, then, from the point of view of the
Fiber Fund, it would cost less to do later! As an advocate for citywide municipal FTTP, I have an interest in advocating
that money in the Fiber Fund be spent wisely.

* It doesn't say anything about how deep the trench has to be, or why. At the 11-08-17 CAC meeting, it was claimed that
conduit-for-fiber was what caused the trench to be deeper than 5 feet, which required the extra expensive of shoring
up. But on 01-02-18, I talked with project manager Silvia Santos, and she said it wasn't that simple.

* It says, "In August 2017, Council directed staff to develop other ordinances to lower City’s construction costs for a fiber-
to-the-node/fiber-to-the-premises network such as Dig Once, String Once, Multi-unit Housing, and Microtrenching. Staff
plans to bring all the ordinances to Council at one time as a comprehensive package for approval." That will result in the
slowest-to-craft ordinance slowing down the rest. Is that a good idea? In any case, this statement really has nothing to
do with what Council has to approve (or not) on 01-22-18.

* It talks about traffic signals. Are these using copper? It says the existing conduits are unusable
because were damaged. Will the conduits proposed this time be more durable? The RFP seems to specify PVC.

* It says, I think, that the gas pipes need replacing soonest. Right? I take it that a potential future reduction in gas use is
not a consideration.

* I have the impression that although the Update Downtown Project is multi-phase, and will eventually affect all the areas
shown on the maps on PDF pages 33-36, the contract Council will be asked to approve on 01-22-18 (for $16,371,586
plus a 10% contingency) covers only the work on University Avenue between Alma and Webster. Right?

* In the detailed bid summary (PDF pages 37-40), only four line items mention fiber:


                                                                1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/16/2018 5:24 PM
     1. $5,680,116.00 -- Joint trench installation of 10" water HDPE pipe, 4" gas MDPE pipe, and 2-2" fiber optic PVC
conduits (2,748 feet).


     31.    $15,750.00 -- Install 2-2" PVC conduits to connect fiber optic pull boxes in sidewalk to University Ave joint
trench conduits (150 feet).
     32.    $13,200.00 -- Install 4-2" PVC conduits to connect fiber optic pull boxes in sidewalk to University Ave joint
trench conduits (120 feet).
     33.     $6,000.00 -- Install 24"x36' fiber optic pull box in sidewalk (4).
  In other words, nearly all the conduit-for-fiber cost is in item 1, where it's mixed in with water and gas pipes, so we can't
tell how much the conduit-for-fiber part would cost by itself. It would be better to split this into (at least) three different
items, for water, gas, and fiber separately.

* Is there time to think this through, or must we "order before midnight tonight" (e.g., before prices go up again)?

* UAC didn't get a chance to look at this first. Here are some things they might have considered.

- How long should the pipes in this build be expected to last, before the trench has to be opened again?

- How does DIMP (Distribution Integrity Management Plan) make its recommendations? Is it just for gas? If so, are there
DIMP-equivalents for other utilities? Some Utilities Quarterly Updates (for example, this one, 4Q16, PDF page 65, Figure
30)
https://cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/54496
show the number of gas main leaks over the years, for various pipe materials. What is the material of the pipes this staff
report proposes to replace? Figure 30 shows that "PE" pipes had only a few leaks. What kinds of materials are called
"PE" here? Do they include both HDPE and MDPE? The staff report is proposing to use MDPE.

- How should water mains be sized to provide adequate flow for fire hydrants, while minimizing water age in normal use?

- Were purple pipes considered as a possible opportunity?

- Is the City considering designating recycled water for potable use?

- Is it possible take into consideration the backlog of construction/maintenance required when determining the "max size"
of each utility's reserve fund?

- How should the City build out conduit-for-fiber in support of FTTP?

Thanks.


Jeff

-------------------
Jeff Hoel
731 Colorado Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94303
-------------------




                                                                2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/16/2018 5:25 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                              William Courington <billcour@sonic.net>
Sent:                              Tuesday, January 16, 2018 4:28 PM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           Don't build car parking garages


Parking demand and supply in Downtown and California Avenue may be out of balance. But to restore balance by
increasing supply conflicts with other city priorities, namely reducing traffic and carbon emissions, and consumes funds
that would be better spent on projects that benefit the community as a whole. Moreover, a new balance between
supply and demand will be temporary, because it will expose latent demand. In a few years at most, the problems we
face today will have ratcheted up: more traffic, insufficient parking, inadequate financial resources.

I urge the Council to stop the parking garage projects and focus on getting us a public safety building that be there when
we need it: after the inevitable large earthquake.

 William Courington
 Byron St.




                                                            1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/12/2018 10:03 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           E Nigenda <enigenda1@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Friday, January 12, 2018 6:53 AM
To:                             Council, City; Keene, James
Cc:                             Bobel, Phil; Keith Bennett; Rita Vrhel; Pirnejad, Peter; hilary.gitelman@cityofpaloalto.org
Subject:                        Benefit Cost Ratios



Happy New Year and congratulations to our new Mayor and Vice-Mayor. Thank you all for the work that you
do.

From the Jan. 11, 2018 FEMA Newsletter (emphasis in red, mine):

"Natural Hazard Mitigation Saves: 2017 Interim Report

For our nation to become more resilient, we must develop a more effective and efficient way to invest in
mitigation. Earlier today, the National Institute of Building Sciences (NIBS) Multi-Hazard Mitigation Council
(MMC) released an updated and expanded Natural Hazard Mitigation Saves: 2017 Interim Report.

In this new report, NIBS MMC examined 23 years of federal grants data to determine the benefits we derive
from avoiding damages through activities funded with federal grants, and examined an expanded set of
mitigation actions to determine the Benefit Cost Ratios (BCR) of building new structures beyond code
requirements. The hazard categories covered in this report include: Riverine Flood, Hurricane Surge, Wind,
Earthquake, and Wildland-Urban Interface Fire (WUI).

The new report uses two high-level Benefit Cost Ratios (BCRs) representing the benefits of mitigation. The
report results indicate mitigation grants funded through select federal government agencies, on average, can
save the nation $6 in future disaster costs, for every $1 spent on hazard mitigation. The report also demonstrates
that, on average, investments in hazard mitigation measures that exceed provisions of the 2015 model building
code can save the nation $4 for every $1 spent.

The report suggests a savings of $15.5 Billion from one year of building new construction beyond code
requirements and a total of $158 Billion in savings from federally funded mitigation grant programs funded
from 1993-2016. The report has been vetted by a large group of public and private-sector experts.

This Independent Study is directed by the National Institute of Building Sciences with funding support from the
FEMA and other governmental and non-governmental sponsors. The authors of this study do not speak for or
on behalf of FEMA. Findings presented in this Interim Report should not be taken as reflecting the opinions or
policies of FEMA or its staff.

Additional information is available in the attached Frequently Asked Questions about theNatural Hazard
Mitigation Saves: 2017 Interim Report."




                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/16/2018 9:29 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                               Adequacy Assurance <adequacyassurance@yahoo.com>
Sent:                               Saturday, January 13, 2018 1:50 PM
To:                                 adequacyassurance@gmail.com
Subject:                            BREAKING---State Appeals Court Implicated in Juryless Fleecing Operation, Justices
                                    Spouse and Financial Partners/Firm Members Among Those Benefiting


BREAKING---San Francisco State Appeals Court Implicated in Juryless Fleecing Operation, Justices Spouse and
Financial Partners/Firm Members Among Those Benefiting Within Cases They Sit In Review of Refusing To
Protect the Public ---In Massive Courthouse Juryless Asset Conversion Ring, A Tip of the Iceberg

     While the CA 1st District Court of Appeals allows the Contra Costa, Alameda, etc. lower courts to hijack and convert
assets jurylessly, refusing to hear appeals or intervene according to law, their spouses work in those same probate courts,
assisting in the fleecing operation, receiving $100,000+ appointments (in stolen funds, unbelievably by official lower court
decree) ...the same juryless courts and funds they sit in fraudulent review of.

      Justice Sandra Margulies, spouse Bart Schenone- probate lawyer & juryless appointee (formerly of Schenone
&Peck, now with Danville firm), represented by Dominic Capisi, a former partner and coauthor with Alameda & Contra
Costa +++ judge wm. McKinstry. In addition to himself and the Justice's spouse,, Capisi's firm has several probate
attorneys funneling client's & others' money & assets out of the local courts---the same jury trial denying courts his current
business partner & client's wife... sit in Appellate review of.

     Without jury trial due process or any legitimate review of unconstitutional or fraudulent lower court fleecing orders,
and instead a significant incentive for Appeals court fraudulent participation, and here even fundamental orchestration of
the thefts....no wonder the public is without justice, and keep coming out of court broke, penniless....feeling broken and
with an eerie feeling they just got hustled...in their very country, from within the walls of their very own courtsystem.
Keeping in mind that these are the same appeals court panels that review a majority of our Bay Area criminal cases,
public corruption matters, and are one of the primary safegaurds in place to keep our neighbors free from wrongful
imprisonment and keeping our streets safe, the obvious frauds and their effects are bone chilling.




                                                              1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/11/2018 7:36 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Jim Migdal <jimmigdal@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Wednesday, January 10, 2018 9:18 PM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         Castilleja Expansion Plans



Ladies and Gentleman of the City Council,

I wanted to send a quick note to express my support for Castilleja's expansion plans. I fully support Castilleja's
mission in terms of educating young women and believe that they do an excellent job working to fulfill that
mission. Castilleja is the only secular high school for girls in the Bay Area, however, as a high school, it's
small. The expansion, which I think is relatively modest, would allow the school to serve more girls.

I have two daughters who went to Addison for elementary school and who are now 8th and 10th graders at
Castilleja, and my understanding is that the school has worked hard and with real impact to reduce traffic to and
from Castilleja by offering bus service and working with parents to facilitate carpools etc.

I get that traffic is an issue around Palo Alto and Menlo Park (I live just off University on Hale and routinely
see a line of cars backed up from Middlefield to 101 during the evening rush hour). My sense is that Castilleja
has become a lighting rod for a much larger issue to which it actually doesn't contribute.

In any case, I know you have likely heard from vocal neighbors who are against any expansion of anything,
with Castilleja a more recent addition to the chorus, but in this case, I'd like to be one to share a voice of support
given the school's mission and good citizenship in reducing congestion.

Respectfully,

Jim




                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/16/2018 8:31 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Palo Alto Free Press <paloaltofreepress@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Tuesday, January 16, 2018 5:47 AM
To:                              Council, City
Cc:                              Kniss, Liz (external)
Subject:                         CIA did a “Shithole” job on Nicaragua



This is what you represent....

https://www.washingtonpost.com/archive/politics/1984/04/07/cia-helped-to-mine-ports-in-nicaragua/762f775f-
6733-4dd4-b692-8f03c8a0aef8/?utm_term=.4046e45bd578



The CIA has played a direct role in the laying of underwater mines in Nicaraguan ports that have damaged at
least eight ships from various nations during the past two months, according to congressional and administration
sources.

A combination of U.S.-financed guerrillas fighting the leftist Sandinista government of Nicaragua and more
highly trained Latin American employes of the CIA operating from CIA-owned speedboats have laid the crude
bottom-lying mines in Corinto and other ports, according to the sources.

They said that the mining operation is part of a CIA effort that began late last year to redirect the "contras," as
the anti-Sandinista guerrillas are known, away from futile attempts to seize territory and toward hit-and-run
economic sabotage....



Sent from my iPad




                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/16/2018 5:26 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Lisa Steinback <lisasteinback@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Tuesday, January 16, 2018 3:39 PM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        comments re: Mitchell park tennis courts / pickle ball issue



Dear Council members,

FWIW, I'm okay with trading the existing 3 courts for one lighted court in a better location, but there's one other
change that's bad and should be rectified. The new tennis court looks like it's replacing the existing ball walls
used by both handball players and for tennis practice (with only one handball court being provided in the
change). Those walls are used fairly often and to lose (most of) them would be a significant hardship. A lot of
kids learn to play tennis by hitting against the walls there.

It should be noted that there are two existing pickleball courts presently by the front tennis courts. How about
either putting the new tennis court there, or moving the practice/handball walls there? Since you're creating as
many as 12 new pickleball courts, it would seem acceptable to sacrifice those two courts. Note that my
preference would be to move the practice walls, as the existing ones are tight to use and balls are occasionally
lost in the creek.

Thank you for your consideration,
  Lisa Steinback, 299 Creekside Dr.




                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 1:53 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                                 Jim <jimhols@yahoo.com>
Sent:                                 Wednesday, January 10, 2018 1:14 PM
To:                                   Council, City
Subject:                              Edgewood penalty ruling. - Do whatever it takes to appeal


Did the City fail to write a proper contract with Sandhill or was this ruling bad. Spend some money and do what's necessary to
overturn the ruling.

Jim Holsworth




                                                                  1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 1:53 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Mark Bradford <mbmarkbradford@gmail.com>
Sent:                              Wednesday, January 10, 2018 12:36 PM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           Edgewood Plaza Grocery Store


Dear Members of the Palo Alto City Council:

When the community agreed to let the developer build housing at Edgewood Plaza, the quid pro quo was the developer's
agreement and commitment to maintain a grocery store on site for the benefit of our greater community.

Recent events have demonstrated that without the appropriate financial incentives to maintain the grocery store, the
Edgewood developer has not upheld its commitments to our community. (We believe that the developer's commitment
includes accepting below-market rent from a grocery tenant, if that is what is necessary to satisfy its promises.)

Accordingly, we urge you to continue to hold the developer accountable, and do everything within your power and
authority to maintain the appropriate financial incentives for the developer. Such actions might include appealing
the recent and erroneously-decided Edgewood Plaza ruling, or taking other appropriate legal measures.

This is a very important quality-of-life issue for our neighborhood. Please ensure that the benefits of Edgewood Plaza are
shared equally between the developer and the greater community, rather than accrue solely to the benefit of the
developer.

Respectfully submitted,
Mark & Maureen Bradford
610 Wildwood Lane




                                                             2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 5:19 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         pabobm@aol.com
Sent:                         Wednesday, January 10, 2018 1:59 PM
To:                           Council, City
Subject:                      Edgewood Plaza



I urge you to aggressively pursue that penalties are restored and enforced. Sand Hill
was granted a bonanza (condos) and we deserve proper reimbursement as agreed
upon. If this slides it will set a very bad precedent for any worst case future problems at
Edgewood as well as with any future other similar concessions made by the
city.                Robert Millavec, 540 Rhodes Dr.




                                                     1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 5:19 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Mel Kronick <melkronick@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Wednesday, January 10, 2018 4:26 PM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        Edgewood Plaza Litigation re Grocery Store



We strongly urge the city council to seek the best legal counsel to review the recent decision in favor of Sand
Hill Properties and, if appropriate, formally object to the initial decision and seek to have it overturned. It
certainly seems to us that both common sense reading of Sandhill's obligations and parsing the language would
lead most reasonable people to the conclusion that the matter has, so far, not been correctly adjudicated.

Respectfully,

Mel and Karen Kronick
1156 Forest Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94301




                                                        2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 5:19 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Ellen Turbow <emturbow@sbcglobal.net>
Sent:                             Wednesday, January 10, 2018 5:18 PM
To:                               Council, City
Subject:                          Edgewood Ruling


Dear City Council,

        I urge you to entertain an appeal of the December 15, 2017, ruling in the case of Tse vs. City of Palo Alto. The
severe penalties assessed against Sand Hill Properties seem to have been the only incentive for the developer to finally
make the necessary financial arrangements to enable a tenant to operate a market at Edgewood Plaza. If the ruling
stands, then future developers will use it as a precedent for reneging on their contractual obligations to provide public
benefits in exchange for zoning accommodations. At the very least, the Council should take whatever legal steps may be
necessary to ensure that ordinances and associated regulations are worded in an iron‐clad manner.

Thank you,

Ellen Turbow
1870 Hamilton Ave.
Palo Alto




                                                            3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/11/2018 7:35 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                         Sue Dinwiddie <sued@daise.com>
Sent:                                         Wednesday, January 10, 2018 6:03 PM
To:                                           Council, City
Subject:                                      RE: The Market at Edgewood Plaza



Honorable Members of the Palo Alto City Council:

We are writing to urge you to take bold action on the ruling on the Edgewood Plaza last month. After
having a vacant grocery store for around three years, we feel our neighborhood needs some clout to
help avoid that unpleasant situation again.

We urge you to investigate appealing the ruling, as well as most important, making sure that City and
its attorneys argued the case in the optimal manner. We believe that there is a strong case to be
made for appealing the ruling. The City will lose a great deal of money in penalties - up to $2.3
million. Additionally, the Edge Plaza shopping owners will have no incentive to find another grocery
store, should we lose The Market at Edgewood Plaza.

It is our understanding that the grocery store was the “Community Benefit” that Sandhill Properties
made in exchange for building ten expensive houses, for which the organization made a lot of
money.

It will also set a very bad precedent for future projects if the City backs away from enforcing penalties,
for not living up to “Community Benefits.”

We are also concerned about the parking situation. It seems many cars park all day in the Edgewood
Plaza parking area. We could not find parking the other day. If that continues, The Market, will lose
customers, who will not be willing to park on neighborhood streets and walk a block or more for
groceries. Posting “Two Hour Limit” signs for parking would alleviate that problem.

Thank you for your consideration.

 Sincerely,

 Ken and Sue Dinwiddie




If the Council decides not to pursue the penalty ruling further, not only will it lose perhaps between $1.6 and $2.3 million in penalties but we may find
ourselves without a grocery store as well.




                                                                                1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/11/2018 7:35 AM
Wind in the Strings
Harp and Flute Music for All Occasions
Sue and Ken Dinwiddie
Home: 650-325-3033
Cell: 650-867-0308
windinthestrings.com
sued@daise.com




                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/11/2018 7:35 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                  anne ercolani <ajecpa04@yahoo.com>
Sent:                                  Wednesday, January 10, 2018 6:05 PM
To:                                    Council, City
Subject:                               Edgewood Plaza legal ruling


Dear Council Members,

I understand you will be discussing the recent Court ruling about the Edgewood Plaza grocery store lease in a closed session on
Monday, January 29. I urge you to do everything possible to ensure the developer penalties are restored and enforced. Please
obtain the best legal advice possible on the ruling, including investigating both how to appeal the ruling and whether the City
and its attorneys argued the case well.


Given that there are several locations in the City requiring a grocery store, I think it is critical that the Council take a firm stand
now. All measures need to be taken to be sure that these requirements are fully implemented with actual OPEN stores.
Otherwise, the additional development square footage that has been allowed (and built) just becomes a “freebie” to developers.
This is NOT what was intended.


Thank you for your consideration,
Anne Ercolani
360 Iris Way




                                                                   3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/11/2018 7:35 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Subodh Bapat <subodh.bapat@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Thursday, January 11, 2018 12:40 AM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         Please take action against Sand Hill Property for Edgewood Plaza Grocery Store




Dear City Council,

Several of my neighbors in the Duveneck St. Francis neighborhood, and I, believe that the recent ruling in favor
of Sand Hill Properties regarding the fines for not having an operating grocery store in Edgewood Plaza for a
long time, is misguided and misinformed. We continue to believe that that Sand Hill Properties was legally in
breach of its agreement for more than two years, and the fines that the City imposed should continue to be
enforced.

We urge the City Council to fight this ruling and continue to appeal until it gets a decision in its favor, allowing
it to collect on 100% of the fines that Sand Hill Properties owes.

Failing to do so will set a precedent that any clauses requiring community benefits in contracts with the city
have no teeth and the city does not have the persistence to enforce them, which will lead to recidivist behavior
on the part of developers.

You have to live in this neighborhood to fully appreciate the inconvenience of not having a grocery store in the
area.

Thank you and I look forward to your decision on further action in this matter.

--
Subodh Bapat
564 Jackson Drive
Duveneck / St. Francis




                                                          4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/12/2018 9:37 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                John Ratliff <jratliff@stanford.edu>
Sent:                                Thursday, January 11, 2018 9:57 AM
To:                                  Council, City
Subject:                             Edgewood Plaza



I would like to add to the chorus of Palo Alto residents who feel strongly that the City of Palo Alto should seek
outside legal advice and pursue, if appropriate, appeal of the ruling against the fines applied to Sand Hill
Properties for the failure to provide a grocer at their development at Edgewood Plaza.

This appeal decision, in many residents' opinion, is mistaken and should be reconsidered.

I can assure the Council members that this issue will continue to be a vitally important element in the next
Council election cycle. The City and your voters will be watching how the Council responds to this challenge.


John Ratliff, MD, FACS
Professor of Neurosurgery
Vice Chair, Operations and Development
Department Quality Officer
Co‐Director, Division of Spine and Peripheral Nerve Surgery
Department of Neurosurgery
Stanford University Medical Center




                                                              1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/12/2018 9:37 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Tom Lipkis <tal@pss.com>
Sent:                              Thursday, January 11, 2018 5:25 PM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           Edgewood Plaza & Sand Hill


I'm a 29 year Palo Alto resident and a homeowner. I am exceedingly disappointed with the city council's failure to hold
Sand Hill Property to their commitments, your apparent incompetence in drafting legal agreements, and your blindness
and/or collusion in allowing them to negotiate in bad faith. I stand with my neighbors in urging you to appeal the recent
court decision relieving Sand Hill of the fines they owe. The past fines are not made moot by the presence of a new
market.
We all hope the new market will succeed on its own, but it's important that Sand Hill understand that it's their problem
if it needs financial assistance.

As far as I'm concerned, the city council should not approve any further Sand Hill projects unless/until they live up to all
their past commitments. (Which, of course, they cannot do. For example, having already "accidentally" destroyed
homes they agreed to preserve.)

Thomas Lipkis
2267 Santa Ana St.




                                                              2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/12/2018 9:37 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                         rlsmithjr@comcast.net
Sent:                         Thursday, January 11, 2018 5:51 PM
To:                           Council, City
Subject:                      Appeal of Edgewood Plaza store decision



Dear Council,


I am writing to ask you to appeal the Edgewood Plaza decision about the obligation of the developer
to provide a continuously operating grocery store.

A major and overarching reason for asking this is that the city needs to establish that we will enforce
the deals that developers and others make with the city, and not allow them to find clever routes of
escape from their obligations once they have harvested the benefits that they obtained from the basic
construction.

The city has a number of developers who have made commitments that they would like to be able to
drop. This includes a total of three "planned community" projects that are dependent on grocery
stores. All three of these projects have had difficulties, with the College Terrace development just
entering the "problem zone" last week. The College Terrace folks have already shown themselves to
be litigious, and look like trouble coming our way.

Regarding Edgewood, I can understand the judge believing that there was an ambiguity in the city's
wording. Obviously, the developer is eager to avoid his responsibilities, and hired a clever and
resourceful lawyer to find holes in the ordinance.

Here are some reasons why I believe the judge has erred in his interpretation.

1. Absurd public benefit. The judge's interpretation allows the "public benefit" to be an empty store
which might at some point in the future be used as a grocery store, or might not be. How can
anyone believe that this interpretation is any kind of sensible "public benefit"? The absurdity
of this analysis must mean that a different resolution to the ambiguity is needed.

2. Look at other ways to determine "intent". When an ambiguity occurs about "intent", it would seem
reasonable (and I believe is the law) to look for other sources of information that might help to resolve
the ambiguity. In this case, there are many public documents, videos of the developer
speaking at council meetings, and the recollections of people who talked to the developer and
heard his reasons for asking for support and can speak to the nature of the commitment for a
continuously operating store.

This developer had a number of meetings in the community. As a Greer Road resident who shopped
at Edgewood for decades, I attended some of those meetings, and ended up supporting his proposed
project, even though I am opposed to the "PC ordinance" and have asked to have it repealed on
several occasions.


                                                      3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/12/2018 9:37 AM
The developer said many times that Edgewood was an excellent location for a grocery store. Asked
if he would be able to find replacement grocers, he explained that he did not envision any problems
finding replacements at such a location.

How to proceed. I suggest that you hire some excellent attorneys, and spend some time looking into
the background behind this project to find out what the intent was. I can assure you that the
community had no interest in an empty store! We had already put up with the abandoned
Albertson's store for some years. We wanted a real store, not an empty eyesore. The developer's
commitments to us were our motivation for overwhelmingly supporting this project. We trusted him.

Looking to the future. I would also like to state that, while there is at last a store in Edgewood, we all
must realize how impermanent these things are. The city needs the capability to enforce the original
deal (and other deals). If, God forbid, the new store closes, we will be back asking for a replacement
grocery store.

Sincerely yours,


Robert Smith
2291 Greer Road
Palo Alto, CA 94303




                                                     4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/12/2018 9:37 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Linda Henigin <linda@brail.org>
Sent:                           Thursday, January 11, 2018 9:38 PM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        Pursue the Edgewood Ruling!



Hello City Council members,

I live in the Eichler tract of houses that abuts the Edgewood Plaza shopping center. I implore you to pursue the
Edgewood Plaza ruling. Jeff Levinsky, Lenore Cymes, and Carla Carvalho have written a superb analysis of the
situation which I strongly encourage you to read. I'm sure they've sent it to you all.

I have heard the argument from some that we simply cannot force the property owner to provide a particular
kind of store, namely a grocery store in this case. That may have been a fine argument BEFORE the
development was approved under the PC ordinance, and BEFORE we allowed the developer to take away lots
of parking in order to build houses. At this point, we can certainly force the developer to provide what the
developer promised us. Everyone would be well advised to go back and look at what the developer said when
this project was approved. I remember the developer saying that they were experts who could easily put in a
grocery store. They were experts! And now they claim they never even had to put one in in the first place. It's
disgraceful.

If you don't pursue this matter, you are opening up our town even further to deceitful practices by other
developers. Don't be swayed by the argument that it's too hard to mandate a grocery store there. That is entirely
beside the point. Whether it is too hard or not, the developer not only agreed to it but said they were experts in
the matter. They need to abide by the spirit and the letter of the law. They need to pay the fines that accrued to
them while they were out of compliance with the zoning.

Thank you for your consideration.
Linda Henigin




                                                         5
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/16/2018 9:34 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Ellen Smith <ef44smith@gmail.com>
Sent:                         Saturday, January 13, 2018 2:16 PM
To:                           Council, City
Subject:                      Grocery Store penalties against Edgewood Plaza developer



On January 29 when you review the latest ruling absolving the Edgewood
Plaza developer from paying penalties, I urge you to consider both the
financial loss and the credibility loss to the city if this ruling is not
appealed. The City should get the best legal advice possible on this matter. As you know, a
group of residents in the neighborhood has studied the ruling and consulted with attorneys, and has
concluded that the outcome was mistaken. The judge ignored key wording in the ordinance,
reinterpreted a key word in ways that make no sense, and seemed unaware of major aspects of the
case. The Council should investigate both how to appeal the ruling and whether the City and its
attorneys argued the case well. We don’t want this to become a repeat of 2005, when the City
opted not to fight a lawsuit from Enron and handed over $21.5 million of our taxpayer money to the
bankrupt corporation, despite revelations that Enron had illegally forced energy prices
higher. Other cities fought and reportedly reached far more favorable settlements.

Ellen Smith
1469 Dana Ave.




                                                      1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/16/2018 9:34 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                               Malcolm Slaney <malcolm@slaney.org>
Sent:                               Saturday, January 13, 2018 8:35 PM
To:                                 Council, City
Subject:                            College Terrace Center


Many of you city council members were quoted in an article in the Palo Alto Weekly about the closing of the College
Terrace Market.

I think there were two points that were not raised in the article.

1) There *was* a successful grocery store at that location. With less parking and less visibility. JJ&F was successful, until
they were forced out of business by the developer. I know that other locations in Palo Alto have not been able to
support a grocery store, but this is not one of those locations.

2) The agreement didn’t say that the developer could expect to charge exorbitant rents. Thus the city should expect the
developer to hold up his end of the bargain, even if that means charging the grocery store *zero* rent (or even negative
rent.) I fully expect that the developer can easily find somebody who will want to put a good grocery store in that
location for less than $2000 per day in (negative) rent.

The developer agreed to put a grocery store in that location because that was the overwhelming desire of the
community. I am not wedded to the idea of a grocery store. But the whole point of putting the grocery store in that
location was to repay our *neighborhood* for the extra mass and traffic caused by the oversized building.

Now it is up to the city to hold the developer's feet to the fire. The agreement is good, the developer got their
monstrosity. We want our neighborhood benefit!

‐ Malcolm Slaney
Yale Avenue




                                                              2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/16/2018 9:32 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Jeff Hoel <jeff_hoel@yahoo.com>
Sent:                             Friday, January 12, 2018 6:04 PM
To:                               UAC
Cc:                               Jeff Hoel; Council, City
Subject:                          Example of a UAC item where 16 members of the public spoke (03-17-04)


Commissioners,

In my message of 12-04-17, "TRANSCRIPT & COMMENTS -- 11-27-17 Council meeting, Item 2, Joint Study Session with
UAC," (pages 152-170 here)
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/62541
 I said, "In the good old days, for issues like FTTP, many citizens showed up to speak. (I wanted to cite an example, but
the minutes of UAC meetings older than 2008 are currently inaccessible....)"

I'm pleased to report that these documents are accessible again!

So I thought I'd cite an example. Here are the verbatim minutes of UAC's 03-17-04 meeting, which was dedicated to
FTTP (then called FTTH).
https://cityofpaloalto.org/cityagenda/publish/uac-meetings/3235.pdf
Sixteen members of the public spoke to the issue:
* Jerry Scharff
* Gary Lindgren
* Wayne Martin
* Bob Evans
* Jeff Hoel
* Sanford Forte
* Bob Moss
* Bob Harrington
* Mike Eager
* Andy Poggio
* David Harris
* Art Kramer
* Hilda Weisberg
* Peter Allen
* Arthur Keller
* Ken Poulton

Thanks.


Jeff

-------------------
Jeff Hoel
731 Colorado Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94303
-------------------

PS: Small point: The 03-17-04 verbatim minutes say I wanted the FTTH system to be "standard spaced." That's not
right. I wanted it to be "standards-based." (The "representative system" proposed by the consultants was not
interoperable with anything else.)




                                                            1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/16/2018 9:28 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                Chris Robell <chris_robell@yahoo.com>
Sent:                                Sunday, January 14, 2018 6:03 PM
To:                                  Council, City; Clerk, City
Cc:                                  Atkinson, Rebecca
Subject:                             Fw: New pole request for cell radiation tower




Dear City Council and City Clerk,

Please read the email below.

Respectfully,
Chris Robell


----- Forwarded Message -----
From: Chris Robell <chris_robell@yahoo.com>
To: Rebecca Atkinson <rebecca.atkinson@cityofpaloalto.org>; "arb@cityofpaloalto.org" <arb@cityofpaloalto.org>
Cc: Rochelle Swanson <r.swanson@sure-site.com>
Sent: Sunday, January 14, 2018 2:07 PM
Subject: New pole request for cell radiation tower

Hello ARB and Rebecca,

I live at 707 Bryant St and am on the Board of Directors our our condo association (19 units). The verdict from our
residents is that we do NOT support construction of a new pole for purposes of attaching a cellular tower.

It does not seem appropriate that the City would approve construction of a new pole. I, like many residents, paid over
$6000 in 2007 to get our utilities and poles put underground. It seems Verizon should also put their equipment
underground to the extent feasible. Certainly it does not seem appropriate to construct a NEW pole, as this is counter to
the previous efforts that we all funded with the idea of making our city more beautiful and safe.

It is also worth noting that 332 Forest Ave is designated by the city and/or state as an eligible historic building, built in
1920, so placing a new pole right in front of the entrance of such a building seems ill advised.

Please deny the application for a new pole at 332 Forest Ave, and certainly please ensure any radiation towers installed
do not make noise which owners have cited as a potential concern.

Thank you,
Chris Robell
707 Bryant HOA Board Member




                                                                1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/12/2018 9:40 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Sent:                            Thursday, January 11, 2018 1:04 PM
To:                              dennisbalakian; David Balakian; robert.andersen; Mark Kreutzer; Mark Standriff; Mayor;
                                 esmeralda.soria@fresno.gov; paul.caprioglio; steve.brandau; oliver.baines; terry;
                                 hennessy; nick yovino; Council, City; lxcastro93@yahoo.com; Cathy Lewis; Leodies
                                 Buchanan; leager; Dan Richard; Daniel Zack; beachrides; bearwithme1016@att.net;
                                 david pomaville; fmerlo@wildelectric.net; Raymond Rivas; Greg.Gatzka;
                                 huidentalsanmateo; steve.hogg; info@superide1.com; jboren; Jason Tarvin; jerry
                                 ruopoli; johnhutson580; kfsndesk; newsdesk; nchase@bayareanewsgroup.com;
                                 rosenheim@kpix.cbs.com; russ@topperjewelers.com; Steve Wayte;
                                 thomas.esqueda@fresno.gov; Tom Lang
Subject:                         Fwd: Fwd: Ohio kicking voters off of roles: Hearing before Supreme Court




---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Thu, Jan 11, 2018 at 12:09 PM
Subject: Re: Fwd: Ohio kicking voters off of roles: Hearing before Supreme Court
To: Doug Vagim <dvagim@gmail.com>


   Thurs. Jan. 11, 2018

   Doug- Thanks. Very interesting. I had no idea of the cost of maintaining thousands or even millions of
people on the voting roles. I like the active v. inactive role idea. And scrubbing the inactives after they miss X
number of elections. If they never vote, it tells you something about them.

  Recall Carly Fiorina in the primaries in 2016. It came out that she hadn't voted in a lot of elections. Think it
was Fiorina. If you don't vote, what kind of an office-holder would you be?

   A lot of the people who stopped voting in Ohio are probably on death row in California, and visa versa.

   Last night on the News Hour, they had a woman on who was in the court when the Supreme Court heard
arguments on this yesterday. Stanford grads Kennedy and Bryer both seemed to support Ohio's position. Sota-
Mayor and Kagen seemed to be against Ohio.

   Somebody said that people who get scrubbed tend to be working people, maybe working hours that hurt
voting, or people of color in inner cities.That would all reflect that the better educated tend to vote more. It is a
thorny issue, for sure. They said that scrubbing people from the roles can affect election outcomes.

   A reporter last night said the issue is whether voting should be a "use it or lose it" proposition.

   Maybe a BIG, RED POST CARD warning people that they are in danger of being scrubbed would be a good
idea. I agree that if you miss three elections, your fellow citizens should not keep spending money on voter
guides, etc. for you. I think a loud notification after you miss a few elections is reasonable. Maybe attach a
tear-off they can fill out and mail in to stay registered. Sort of like you got Fresno to do re the water hike.

                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/12/2018 9:40 AM
  I think they said last night that 42% of eligible adults don't vote in the U.S. Sounds high to me.

   LH


On Thu, Jan 11, 2018 at 2:29 AM, Doug Vagim <dvagim@gmail.com> wrote:
 Loran, uber-liberal California does the same as you outlined for Ohio.

Not long ago California would toss a registered voter off the election roll if they missed two fed general
elections and would be required to reregister to get back on the voter roll.

Then when the leftists took control of state they changed the rules to forbid the removal of an eligible voter for
not casting a ballot in any election, no matter how many the missed.

Soon the election rolls swelled with so many non-voters the printing & mailing costs for the voter's guide &
ballot soared - only to be treated as junk mail and tossed in the garage by the non-voters.

A reality check became apparent and the voter roll was allowed to be divided into two parts one active and one
inactive. Only the voter's on the active roll would receive a ballot & guide. If a person wanted to vote, they can
contact the individual County Election Department to be reactivated. But would not be required to reregister as
in the past, if all the residency information remained the same.

They can even show up at the election day Precinct and cast a provisional ballot based on the fact that they
were still on a roll even though it was an inactive roll. That's why it can take a very long time after election
night closes to get the final count of the ballots cast.

Every provisional ballot, if it is to be counted, has to be individually analyzed and checked against the inactive
roll to see if that person is an eligible voter in that election.

So after a period of time even the inactive roll got so huge and unwieldy state elections allowed counties to
scrub the inactive roll after a person missed so many elections. Not sure how many they must miss before
they're dropped at this point, but I know that is being done today.

Allowing people to participate in the election process is no doubt a state responsibility, however the actual
participation in that process is the individual citizen's responsibility.

If an individual citizen is not going to participate in the election process and is still required to be carried as
dead weight on bloated election rosters and rolls, that seems to be a foolhardy and needless expense to the
taxpayers in my estimation.

Doug

On Jan 10, 2018 10:18 AM, "Loran Harding" <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org> wrote:

 ---------- Forwarded message ----------
 From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
 Date: Wed, Jan 10, 2018 at 9:53 AM
 Subject: Ohio kicking voters off of roles: Hearing before Supreme Court
 To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>

                                                          2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/12/2018 9:40 AM

    Wed. Jan. 10, 2018

    Doug- Ohio is doing this: If you don't vote in an election, they send you a post card asking you to verify
 that you are who you say you are and that you live where you say you live. Then, if you don't vote in two
 more elections, they remove your name from the voting roles.

   The rich Republicans who own Ohio say "NOOOO, we're just cleaning up our voting roles. What do you
 mean?"

    The Obama Admin. had said that this looks illegal. The Trump Admin. has changed sides on this.

    So today, apparently, this is getting a hearing before merely the U.S. Supreme Court.

    KCBS SF today had a law prof. on from one of the Loyola Universities. She said that states do have broad
 powers wrt how they run elections, but there is a federal law and an obscure, probably toothless, document
 called the U.S. Constitution. IT sets some standards which the states cannot violate. So this is today the
 subject of a hearing before the high court.

    If Ohio prevails, I am sure that the Republicans who own the Central Valley will want to similarly clean
 their voting roles (of Democrats) and of loud-mouthed Stanford grads who see them for what they are: a
 bunch of brigands.

    LH

    BTW, KCBS also said that a man in the Calif. legislature has a bill in the hopper that would do
 this: Abolish the State income tax and allow taxpayers to make a contribution to the State treasury instead.
 Then, they could take a deduction on their federal tax return for that contribution.

    KCBS then had a tax professor on from San Jose State. Former lawyer with the IRS. She said that the IRS
 would probably disallow the deduction as soon as the return is filed, using a "correspondence audit". She said
 that at the IRS, if it looks like a duck, walks like a duck, and quacks like a duck, it is generally presumed to be
 a duck.

    LH




                                                         3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/16/2018 8:49 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Sent:                         Monday, January 15, 2018 3:33 PM
To:                           Loran Harding; Dan Richard; dennisbalakian; David Balakian; midge@thebarretts.com;
                              Mayor; esmeralda.soria@fresno.gov; paul.caprioglio; steve.brandau; Steve Wayte;
                              oliver.baines; Daniel Zack; Mark Standriff; Mark Kreutzer; Doug Vagim; robert.andersen;
                              Leodies Buchanan; beachrides; bearwithme1016@att.net; Cathy Lewis; Council, City;
                              fmerlo@wildelectric.net; Raymond Rivas; Greg.Gatzka; huidentalsanmateo; hennessy;
                              steve.hogg; info@superide1.com; Joel Stiner; jerry ruopoli; jboren; kfsndesk; kclark;
                              lxcastro93@yahoo.com; newsdesk; nick yovino; nchase@bayareanewsgroup.com;
                              popoff; pavenjitdhillon@yahoo.com; david pomaville; rosenheim@kpix.cbs.com;
                              russ@topperjewelers.com; terry; thomas.esqueda@fresno.gov; Tom Lang; Jason Tarvin;
                              richard.wenzel; boardmembers
Subject:                      Fwd: High Speed Rail Now Rivals Flying on Key Routes. Fire Kevin McCarthy.




---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Mon, Jan 15, 2018 at 2:39 PM
Subject: Fwd: High Speed Rail Now Rivals Flying on Key Routes. Fire Kevin McCarthy.
To: Doug Vagim <dvagim@gmail.com>, dennisbalakian <dennisbalakian@sbcglobal.net>, David Balakian
<davidbalakian@sbcglobal.net>, midge@thebarretts.com, Mayor <mayor@fresno.gov>,
esmeralda.soria@fresno.gov, "paul.caprioglio" <paul.caprioglio@fresno.gov>, "steve.brandau"
<steve.brandau@fresno.gov>, Steve Wayte <steve4liberty@gmail.com>, "oliver.baines"
<oliver.baines@fresno.gov>, Daniel Zack <daniel.zack@fresno.gov>, Mark Standriff
<mark.standriff@fresno.gov>, Mark Kreutzer <mlkreutzer@yahoo.com>



---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Mon, Jan 15, 2018 at 2:32 PM
Subject: Fwd: High Speed Rail Now Rivals Flying on Key Routes. Fire Kevin McCarthy.
To: Dan Richard <danrichard@mac.com>



---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Mon, Jan 15, 2018 at 2:14 PM
Subject: Fwd: High Speed Rail Now Rivals Flying on Key Routes. Fire Kevin McCarthy.
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>



---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>

                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/16/2018 8:49 AM
Date: Mon, Jan 15, 2018 at 2:02 PM
Subject: Fwd: High Speed Rail Now Rivals Flying on Key Routes. Fire Kevin McCarthy.
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>



---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Sun, Jan 14, 2018 at 8:58 PM
Subject: Fwd: High Speed Rail Now Rivals Flying on Key Routes. Fire Kevin McCarthy.
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>



---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Sun, Jan 14, 2018 at 7:00 PM
Subject: Fwd: High Speed Rail Now Rivals Flying on Key Routes. Fire Kevin McCarthy.
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>



---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Sun, Jan 14, 2018 at 1:58 PM
Subject: Fwd: High Speed Rail Now Rivals Flying on Key Routes. Fire Kevin McCarthy.
To: Dan Richard <danrichard@mac.com>



---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Sun, Jan 14, 2018 at 1:40 PM
Subject: Fwd: High Speed Rail Now Rivals Flying on Key Routes. Fire Kevin McCarthy.
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>



---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Sun, Jan 14, 2018 at 1:29 PM
Subject: High Speed Rail Now Rivals Flying on Key Routes. Fire Kevin McCarthy.
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>



  Monday, January 15, 2018

   Mr. Dan Richard
   Chairman of the Board of Directors
   California High Speed Rail Authority
                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/16/2018 8:49 AM

  Dan- Here is an important, fact-filled report on how HSR now rivals air travel in Japan, China and Europe.
This rebuts the mouth-full of lies coming from Kevin McCarthy, a fiery Republican opponent of California
High Speed Rail.

   https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-01-09/high-speed-rail-now-rivals-flying-on-key-global-
routes

   McCarthy isn't stupid. He just does the bidding of the bastard Republicans who put him in power to ruin the
lives of 99% of the American people.

   Here's McCarthy with his usual mouth full of crap (and I'm being polite here) talking about how the lives of
Californians should be ruined by him and other Republicans. "Keep 'em broke, ignorant and exploited" is their
creed. HSR will break that up, and the Republicans don't like it one bit. McCarthy is qualified to dig potatoes
around Bakersfield, not to serve in Congress. The voters should fire him in 2018:


   https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1fhK19AEbnc&feature=youtu.be


   In the first link above, see the beautiful high speed trains that are moving Japan, China and the countries of
Europe forward. Their riders live in the secure knowledge that people like Kevin McCarthy are keeping the
American people living in a third world country. This while we spend $620 billion per year to defend the entire
world, murder young Americans by fighting wars all over the world, and deny the American people HSR,
quality health care, affordable universities and a decent infrastructure. The people of Europe, Japan and S.
Korea are just fine with that. They know that the American people are a bunch of hopeless suckers, and they
look down their noses at us for that. They wouldn't put up with it from their governments.


   Tonight on "60 Minutes", they showed our 16 year-long war in Afghanistan, where we have spent $1 trillion
and gotten 2,400 Americans killed. That is $20 billion for each of the 50 states of the U.S. California High
Speed Rail could sure use that $20 billion now, but Kevin McCarthy says nothing about our total waste of
money and lives in Afghanistan. He doesn't run his mouth about that, only about high speed rail in California.

    Actually, with 10% of the U.S. population, California's share of the $1 trillion we have spent in Afghanistan
is probably more like $100 billion. That would have built the entire California high speed rail system, fixed our
streets and highways, and have done a lot more good beyond that.

   We pretty much pulled out of Afghanistan, but Trump has now put 10,000 more troops back in. We are now
spending $4 billion per year there. Our General there says that the Taliban thought they could win when we
reduced our numbers there, "but now they see that we are killing them in large numbers. They see that they can
join us or die".

   "Are the terrorists coming from Afghanistan?", Lara Logan asked him. "We need to defeat them here or we'll
embolden them everywhere", was his reply. That logic seems a little weak to me. Sort of like how the VC were
going to be in San Diego if we left V.N.

   To see more about our involvement in Afghanistan over 16 years, go to www.60minutesovertime.com.


                                                        3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/16/2018 8:49 AM
    AND THEN, an hour later, PBS ran the first episode of 2018 of "Victoria". She had just given birth to her
first child, also Victoria. They had to tell her that 4,000 British troops were retreating from Kabul, Afghanistan.
When all but one man were murdered in an ambush, they had to tell her that it was a defeat for the British
Army.

    Her military advisor told her that "Afghanistan is a god-forsaken place, nothing but rocks and sand, and
tribes who fight like tigers".

   One advisor said "We had no business in Afghanistan. Now our brave soldiers have paid the price".

   One said, "A mighty British army has been defeated by a bunch of savages".

   Said Victoria "Brave men have perished in the snows of the Khyber Pass".

   The British Prime Minister was shouted at in Parliament "How could a British Army be...?"

   It was January, 1842, 176 years ago.

   The people of Britain know all about this. Most Americans have never heard of what happened there.

   To learn more about this, here it is on Wikipedia:

   https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1842_retreat_from_Kabul

   The last stand was made at Gandamak on January 13, 1842, 176 years ago Saturday.


   Kevin McCarthy should run his mouth about the folly is sending 10,000 American troops back into
Afghanistan. I fear that many of them will return in coffins through Dover Air Force Base, with no cameras
allowed.

   Instead, he runs his mouth about how the people of California, those who aren't killed in Afghanistan, should
be denied high speed rail.


   L. William Harding
   Fresno, Ca.




                                                         4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/16/2018 8:47 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Pak Panitchpakdi <pakpanitchpakdi@hotmail.com>
Sent:                           Monday, January 15, 2018 9:44 PM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        Fwd: Tennis court change at Mitchell park



To whom it may concern

Get Outlook for iOS

From: Pak Panitchpakdi <pakpanitchpakdi@hotmail.com>
Sent: Monday, January 15, 2018 9:39:36 PM
To: adam.howard@cityofpaloalto.org
Subject: Tennis court change at Mitchell park

Hi Mr. Howard,

I just learned from my tennis friend about the city plan to permanently change three tennis courts at the back to
be pickle ball courts. I would like to share my thought why the city should not approve that plan as followings;

1.) We don’t have enough tennis courts in Palo Alto as we speak. I used to play at Mitchell park tennis courts in
the morning every weekend but couldn’t get any court many times that I stopped going there as those three
courts were taken by these pickle ball people since 7:00am every weekend. I ended up playing at Gunn HS or
Rinconada courts which pretty crowded as well.

2.) I joined the pickle ball games once in a while and found that most of the people are not from Palo Alto.
Many came from East Bay as far as Tracy. Some were from Half Moon Bay and San Jose and etc. I asked them
why they were willing to drive this far. They told me that other courts are mostly indoor. Our courts are the
nicest out door courts in this area.

As a resident of Palo Alto, I wonder why I had to drive to near by cities sometimes to find tennnis courts while
people from other cities came and took over our tennis courts. They made it look so official that I thought they
rented those courts for a tournament. But then they are always there every weekend ?!?

3.) Those three courts are ones of not many lighted tennis courts in Palo Alto. There were a few times my
friends and I drove from Rinconada to Mitchell park to find all the courts were full. Then we went to PALY
courts which were full too.

I agree that we should have some pickle ball courts as it’s fun and easy enough for everyone especially seniors
citizen. However, the courts shouldn’t be at Mitchell park. Please reconsider the location. We actually need to
have more tennis courts. I saw there was a plan to build more tennis courts at Greer park at one point but it
didn’t happen.

Thank you,
Thapanee (Pak) Panitchpakdi

Get Outlook for iOS
                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/11/2018 7:36 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Keith Ferrell <ferrell.keith@gmail.com>
Sent:                         Wednesday, January 10, 2018 5:11 PM
To:                           Kamhi, Philip
Cc:                           Hur, Mark; Council, City; Paul Machado
Subject:                      Fwd: Your prompt attention to this matter is appreciated
Attachments:                  EPM RPP Questions 12-20-17.pdf



Philip,
I read over your responses to Paul Machado's email and have a few
comments:

1) Question #5 is not fully answered. Why are those few addresses
allowed to have such a large percentage of the permits? Does that not
increase the overall need for permits?

2) Question #6 is not directly addressed. There are simple ways to limit
permits per address.

3) 60% occupancy is too high for any residential neighborhood. If the city
has not evidence to back this up, then other numbers can be used just as
easily. What is the impact of businesses on the residential parking? Do a
study.

4) Question #17 is answered using the resolution as back up for the
reasoning. The resolution also states a one-year pilot program, but that
seems to have been thrown out the window.

5) Question #17. One year pilot program can not start UNTIL
enforcement begins. Southgate did not get final signage until December
11th and tickets were not issued until Dec 13th. If the number of permits
can be revisited, the dates can be moved. Under your logic, the city could
have delayed signage for an entire year and then declare the pilot program
to be over. That makes no sense.
                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/11/2018 7:36 AM



Keith
---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Kamhi, Philip <Philip.Kamhi@cityofpaloalto.org>
Date: Wed, Jan 10, 2018 at 11:46 AM
Subject: RE: Your prompt attention to this matter is appreciated
To: Paul Machado <plmachado@gmail.com>
Cc: "Hur, Mark" <Mark.Hur@cityofpaloalto.org>


Paul,



Please see attached responses to your questions, with responses in red.



Best,

               Philip Kamhi
               Transportation Programs Manager

               PLANNING & COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT

               Transportation

               Philip.Kamhi@CityofPaloAlto.org

               office: 650.329.2520 fax: 650.329.2154



Use PaloAlto311 to report items you’d like the City to fix. Download the app or click here to make a service request.




From: Paul Machado [mailto:plmachado@gmail.com]
Sent: Tuesday, December 26, 2017 9:34 AM
To: Kamhi, Philip
Subject: Your prompt attention to this matter is appreciated




                                                                  2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/11/2018 7:36 AM

Dear Philip,
After reviewing the staff report #8670 that you prepared for the City
Council concerning proposed changes to the Evergreen Park/Mayfield
RPP the RPP committee has prepared a list of questions and points of
clarification (see attached). Please respond to our questions in writing by
January 8, 2018 so that we have time to review them prior to the second
stakeholders meeting that you have scheduled for January 10.

Thank you for your support and assistance in making our RPP work
effectively for all the stakeholders.


Happy Holidays. Sorry if our request interferes with your holiday plans.


Sincerely,
Paul Machado
Representing the Evergreen Park/Mayfield RPP committee
2 Attachments




                                                     3
                   Evergreen Park RPP Resident Questions and Points of Clarification
                                        December 20, 2017

       In Response to: Resolutions Modifying Evergreen Park-Mayfield and Southgate RPP
       Programs (ID #8670) [Henceforth, "Proposal"]


       We, as a group of residents of Evergreen Park, understand that the proposed changes to the
       Evergreen Park/Mayfield RPP and to parking along adjacent El Camino Real areas are as
       follows:

           1. Increase employee permits in Evergreen Park (zones A and B) by 41: 25 of these
              would be in zone A, and 16 would be in zone B

           2. Limit purchase of these additional permits to employees and business that are located
              outside the California Avenue Parking Assessment District.

           3. Establish 2-hour parking along El Camino Real from College to just beyond Park
              Blvd and part of the block on El Camino just before Churchill and along part of
              Churchill.

The proposal above is no longer to be considered by the City Council. Staff report #8670 is being abandoned, thus some
of these questions below will not have as much relevance at this time.


       Resident Questions and Points of Clarification and Commentary (questions are
       underlined):

            1. Executive Summary of the Proposal, paragraph 2, page 2 states:

                   " . . . some business owners including owners of smaller dental and
                   medical office uses in both districts [Evergreen Park/Mayfield and
                   Southgate] have been unable to purchase permits because of the limited
                   supply (i.e., all employee permits in their area have been sold out)."

                What is the process by which these medical offices - and presumably other small
                businesses located outside the California Avenue Parking Assessment District
                ["District"] - can purchase permits in the Evergreen Park/Mayfield RPP area?

The City generated a list of addresses within the boundaries of the program and cross-referenced with business registry
before activating an account. The process is similar to companies within the California Ave Assessment District. Per the
Palo Alto Municipal Code (Chapter 4.60), all businesses within the City of Palo Alto located in fixed places of business
(i.e., commercial buildings, retail storefronts, etc.) are required to register with the City each year.


           2. How does the City define the businesses that would be eligible for the proposed new
              permits in the RPP area? Are "smaller" businesses limited to dental and medical
              offices?

If a business is within program boundaries, they are eligible for the program. The City does not categorize business by
size. Staff is recommending that if additional permits be made available, they be made available to Businesses outside
the California Avenue Parking Assessment, and thus are not allowed to purchase garage and lot parking permits.

           3. Is it the case that all businesses in buildings that are located in the District and do not
              have a signed Transportation Demand Management Program are eligible to purchase
              permits in the RPP area as well as for public garages and lots?
                   In other words, all businesses IN the District (except those with TDMs) AND
                   those outside this District compete for spaces in the RPP areas. Is this
                   correct?

If a business is within program boundaries, they are eligible for the program. The City does not categorize
business by size.


               4. On page 3, under the Evergreen Park-Mayfield RPP discussion, it is stated that
                  the small businesses were fine for the first six months of the program, but
                  beginning in October, in the second phase, it became obvious that there would
                  not be an adequate number of employee parking permits available for the small
                  dental and medical offices.

                   What happened? What has changed? Is the competition for permits in the RPP
                   area equal, so that the dental and medical office people could have gotten them if
                   they had applied in a timely fashion?

No changes were made during the second sale cycle for the RPP. Employee permits are sold on a first come
basis, and current permit holders are not guaranteed a permit every six months. The program does give priority
to account holders. There is no waitlist and permits are available to all account holders during scheduled sale
periods. All business have equal accessibility to purchase permits.

               5. Does the city have an analysis of which businesses at which addresses have
                  purchased permits in the RPP area, and how many permits have been
                  purchased by
                  each address? If so, we ask that the City share that analysis by noon on Monday,
                  January 8111 prior to the next outreach meeting scheduled for January 10.

                   We understand, for example, that some dentists and doctors at 1795 El Camino
                   received a total of 37 permits (30 in A and 7 in C), but that was not enough.

                   Also, our preliminary analysis indicates that 102 permits in the RPP area were
                   purchased by a business(es) at 490 California Ave, and another 42 permits in the
                   RPP were purchased by a business(es) at 318 Cambridge -- both of which are
                   in the District. This accounts for 57.6% of the total 250 permits allowed.
                   Again, this must be in addition to whatever permits they received in public
                   garages and lots that are near these buildings - is this correct?

                   Also, we understand that only 244 of the total 250 available permits were sold. Is this
                   correct?

The current permit management system has limited capability, and the report that you are referencing is the same
one that we have received. All 250 permits have been issued for both sale cycles. We also saw the same 244
permits sol at the time of this report, but have confirmed with the contractor that all 250 permits have been sold.
The report requested was a snapshot in time, and can have some variations due to permits that are sold or
deactivated, depending on date. Staff is working on procuring a new permit management system that will
provide better access to data.


                                                     3
                     6. We have been told that any business is allowed to purchase up to 10 RPP
                        permits, and that multiple businesses at any individual address are each entitled
                        to purchase 10 permits. For example, if seven dentists were located in a single
                        address and each was incorporated as his/her own business, then that address
                        would be eligible for 70 permits. If 50 people who do coding are working as
                        independent contractors using their own LLC at a given address, then they all
                        be eligible for 10 permits if they were available.1 Is this correct?




                 1 Theone-story building at 318 Cambridge has its windows papered over so that there is
                 no visibility to the inside of the building. This is a common practice for businesses with
                 many coders.

             Has the City established - or considered establishing -- any limit on the number of permits
             that can be purchased per address or building?

       Business accounts may purchase up to 10 permits. Individual accounts can only purchase one permit.
       Businesses vary in size and staffing, and the current permit system has some limitations. It would currently be
       difficult to monitor or limit the number of permits per address.


         7. How was the 60% occupancy rate for parking spaces developed? Why is this the standard for a
            residential neighborhood? We understand from the Proposal that this would, in the City's forecast,
            result in only four vacant spaces per block [See Proposal footnote 1, page 4].

             How does the 60% occupancy rate account for the purchase of temporary permits by residents for
             guests, construction workers, other service providers (e.g., plumbers, electricians, etc.)?

       The parking industry standard for on-street commercial areas is 85%. However, there are not existing industry
       standards that have been established for residential areas with nearby commercial. Staff recommends that
       Council considers whether 60% be the maximum acceptable occupancy rate during the peak business hours.

                                                                                                                       2
         8. Why is the city using the average occupancy rate? An average is unduly affected by extreme values.
            Why not use the highest occupancy rate, since that is what residents will be dealing with at any
            given point?

             The Proposal does not address, nor does the average occupancy across an RPP zone not appear
             to account for the greater occupancy in areas near El Camino Real. Those areas are seeing much
             higher occupancy rates during the day. What are the City's thoughts on how to deal with this
             issue?

Staff found issues with bunching causing areas that have higher occupancy throughout the day. Thus, staff is
planning to recommend that Council consider creating additional zones to better distribute the parking throughout
the district.

         9. Why is the show rate important, and how was it calculated? Couldn't this change at any time?
            Why do business purchase permits and then don't use them? Do we understand why this
                                                            4
             happens - and thus why it might change?

             If someone buys a permit, don't they then "own" that slot and can use it whenever they wish? I.e.,
             no one has any control over the show rate.

Show rate lets us know how many permit holders actually are using their permit at any given time. This is a normal
industry practice that is used that allows parking entities to oversell permits. As an example, it allows us to sell
more permits in our parking garages than we have spaces, as we know that not everyone will show up. A person
that does not show up might not be parking at a given time because they were sick, they got a carpool/ride, they
took a vacation, their car is in the shop, and for many other reasons.

         10. Has the staff done any sensitivity analysis with respect to the show rate? What happens to
             occupancy if the show rate changes by 2%, 5%, etc.? At 60% occupancy, there are only four
             vacant spaces per 10-space block, which doesn't seem to allow for


    2 For example, an area could have only 20% occupancy from 9 to 11 a.m., 100% occupancy from 12 to 2
     p.m., and 20% occupancy from 3 to 5 p.m., but have an "average" occupancy of "only" 47% occupancy,
     which would be very misleading as to the conditions residents would face. Further, since an enforcement
     officer is not standing around a block at all times, we cannot insure that a car is parked only two hours and
     no more.
                      much margin for error.

       The show rate has shown some consistency throughout different City parking programs, and with on-going
       program monitoring, it can be determined if there has been something that changes. With 60% occupancy
       as a maximum target, the majority of the day should be lower than 60%. However, this can be an iterative
       process, if occupancies are increasing and exceeding desired levels, the Council can adjust.

                11. What happens if new permits are issued based on an assumption of a 32% show rate, but
                    the show rate turns out to be much higher? What is the option, then, to reduce the permits
                    based on the higher occupancy? How often will the show rate be measured?

                    Employees of medical offices may be more likely to be all day workers rather than part-
                    time ones that come and go. These are not typical "retail" employees. Does the City have
                    any data permit usage by these types of businesses?

       Any permit increase would only occur if the City Council approves it. If Council recommends additional
       employee permits be released, the City would reassess the program after additional permits are released,
       and to continue to monitor it on an annual basis.


                12. Why is the City recommending that Zone A receive a greater number of additional permits
                    than zone B, since Zone A has a higher average occupancy rate than Zone B, and Zone B
                    has a greater total supply of spaces?

                    Would this not risk raising Zone A's occupancy rate to more than the 53% Zone C,
                    which is not getting any new permits, now experiences? Zone A is getting a 33%
                    increase in permits. If that increases the average occupancy rate by 33%, then the
                    average will be 62.5% -- higher than even the staff is recommending
                                                           5
   Staff report #8670, which recommended these specific changes, will not be moving forward

            13. What has the City done to insure that businesses are not being issued resident permits?
                We have been told by two dentists that they have received resident permits in the past.

   Staff identified this issue from a report from our contractor and will surface this issue in our report to
   Council. Staff had asked the contractor to retract these incorrectly issued permits, and issue employee
   permits when possible. Resident permits for 1691 El Camino Real that were incorrectly issued were
   deactivated on 10/04/2017. Resident permits incorrectly issued to 1681 El Camino Real have recently been
   deactivated. Staff is working closely with the contractor to ensure businesses are not issued residential
   permits. Staff is preparing to release a procurement for a new permit management system, which will give
   us better reporting and control, as well as more customer friendly access.


            14. What options, other than increasing only the permits available to businesses, havebeen
                considered?

                For example, given that businesses IN the California Avenue Parking Assessment
                District can purchase permits in the garages, lots AND RPP areas, but the "smaller"
                businesses (i.e., dental and medical offices) can only purchase permits in the RPP
                district, why not take some of the RPP permits now being sold to businesses in the
                Parking Assessment District and allocate them to these "smaller" businesses outside the
                District?

The City is reviewing various options, and ultimately the Council will need to decide if they want to increase
the permits available to businesses. Expanding the Business Assessment District is not a viable solution as there
is currently a long waiting list for the garages/lots.

            15. Does the California Avenue area AND the area encompassing these smaller
                businesses, have a Transportation Management Plan that would foster the use ofpublic
                transportation by those coming into this area to work?
              For example, the Proposal cites two Policies that are relevant to it. The first is:
                     Policy T-5.5: Minimize the need.for employees to park in and
                     adjacent to commercial centers, employment districts and schools.

              The second is:
                     Policy T-5.11: Work to protect residential areas.from parking impacts of
                     nearby businesses and uses, recognizing that fully addressing some existing
                     intrusions may take time.


              What steps have been taken to implement Policy T-5-5?

              Doesn't the Proposal move in the opposite direction of Policy T-5-11?

              If no steps have been taken to implement them , why are these policies being ignored?

A new Comp Plan has been adopted, thus the policies that were in report #8670 are no longer valid.
                                                       6
              16. We understood that the process for any modification of the Evergreen Park/Mayfield
                  RPP after the 1 year pilot program would be that City staff recommendations would
                  first go to the Planning and Transportation Commission for its review. After any
                  modifications suggested by the PTC, the recommendations would to the City Council
                  using its normal process.

                  Why is the City staff proposing to go directly to the City Council after only six
                  months? When was the process changed, and who approved that?

Report #8670 was been removed from the Council Calendar. The City Council will review the Evergreen Park –
Mayfield RPP prior to the pilot program completion to determine next steps.


              17. Finally with respect to the Evergreen Park-Mayfield RPP Program, the Proposal (on
                  page 3) states that the Evergreen Park-Mayfield RPP Program pilot began in March
                  2017. The program in Southgate, however, is described as beginning in October 2017
                  and enforcement beginning in mid-November. When did enforcement begin in
                  Evergreen Park-Mayfield, and why is that date not relevant when it is for Southgate?

                  Looking at the City's website, it seems that that resident and/or business permits
                  would be required by April 24, 2017, with a two-week warning period after that.
                  Why is the ending of the pilot program not six months from the enforcement date?

For both Southgate and Evergreen Park – Mayfield RPP Pilot programs, the end dates are set in the program
resolution. For Evergreen Park – Mayfield the resolution states:

“The City Council shall consider whether to make the RPP Districts and their parking programs permanent, modify
the Districts and/or their parking regulations, or terminate them no later than March 31, 2018.”

For Southgate the resolution states:

“The City Council shall consider whether to make this RPP Program and its parking programs permanent, modify
the Program and/or its parking regulations, or terminate it no later than September 30, 2018.”

              18. Turning to the proposed changed for parking along El Camino Real, why does the
                  City think it is better to have employees park in the neighborhood rather than
                  customers? [See page 6, end of second paragraph] Customers come and go, freeing
                  up space in the neighborhood on a regular basis; employees are more likely to take up
                  a space for the entire day. Customers do not need permits if they are staying less than




                                                           7
                   two hours. And, haven't the dental and medical offices said that their own parking
                   lots are for customer use?

Sending frequently moving customers into the neighborhoods (some of which are closed to El Camino
Real) creates additional traffic in the neighborhood, while parking on El Camino Real allows customers to
park in front of the businesses. However, staff has reached out to Caltrans to find out if they will allow us to
create an RPP zone on El Camino Real.


              19. Where does the City think employees who are now parking on El Camino Real
                  (apparently all day given the occupancy rate) will park? Will the new 2-hour limits
                  on El Camino simply increase the demand for employee permits in the RPP areas and
                  increase the show rate?

                  In the absence of a TDM program for these businesses, will there be a request at a
                  later time to increase the number of permits because of the greater demand?

Staff does not agree that El Camino Real is being used solely by employees, and believes that El Camino
Real is being primarily used by people from outside of the district. El Camino Real has high occupancy
beyond regular business hours, which shows that the impact is not from the businesses. It is likely that the
unrestricted parking is allowing for parkers from places outside the district including Stanford, Palo Alto
High School, Caltrain commuters, and others in need of free long-term parking.

              20. On page 8, the timeline suggests that permits would be issued immediately, but new
                  signage in front of the businesses (on El Camino Real and Churchill) would take 2
                  months. Why shouldn't these two steps be taken at the same time, i.e., no new
                  permits until the signage is up?

The timing provided is the timing that we are capable of completing, however if Council recommends
changes, they can dictate the schedule they would like us to proceed with.



          We respectively request a response to each of these questions prior to the next scheduled
          outreach meeting now set for January 10, 2018, specifically by noon on Monday, January 8,
          2018. This will allow us to consider them and thus be better prepared for a discussion of
          alternatives at that meeting.

          Please send these responses to Paul Michado at plm ac hado1,a gmail.com .

          Thank you.
          Evergreen Park residents




                                                            8
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 5:20 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Maryjane Marcus <maryjane.marcus@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Wednesday, January 10, 2018 2:47 PM
To:                             Council, City
Cc:                             Gitelman, Hillary
Subject:                        FYI - guidebook for regulating short term rentals in Palo Alto



Dear City Council,

Here's a guide that could be helpful in developing regulating short term rentals (AirBnB) in a way that is good
for our community.

Overview: http://www.theselc.org/regulating_short_term_rentals_a_guidebook_for_equitable_policy

guide itself: https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B1VPWTZ0vw6MTVh2b182QTFVV1E/view

No response needed.

Sincerely,
Mary Jane Marcus
Palo Alto resident




                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/16/2018 9:30 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                  Joan <rudston1@aol.com>
Sent:                                  Friday, January 12, 2018 11:56 PM
To:                                    Council, City
Subject:                               Message from the City Council Home Page


Hello,

On Jan. 9, I returned to my car in front of the Stanford Healthcare Hoover Pavilion to find that my car was broken into
(driver side front window smashed), with items taken.

I thought that I was in a safe environment, and shocked by by the fact that I was not.

This was the same day that a gang of thieves robbed Nordstrom in Stanford Shopping Center of $100, 000 in
merchandise, also creating shockwaves amongst patrons.

Please wake up!

This is the canary in the coal mine.

Thieves are now migrating into genteel affluent communities, emboldened by hand's off council policies and political
correctness, to behave in a lawless fashion.

Affluent communities did not worry when it was merely BART riders beat up and robbed in Oakland.

Or maybe expressed mild concern that the car break‐in, smash and grab rate in the City jumped 28% in 2017.

Liberals and conservatives alike will not tolerate lawlessness to invade our community.

Since it's now arrived in Palo Alto, what do you plan to do about it...if you want to keep your jobs?

Thank you.

Joan C.




                                                              1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/16/2018 9:32 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Jennifer Landesmann <jlandesmann@gmail.com>
Sent:                         Friday, January 12, 2018 4:24 PM
To:                           Council, City
Subject:                      Newport City Council succeeds in challenge to FAA
Attachments:                  Mayor's Letter to FAA img12142017_0001.pdf; 17_FAA Phase 2 Panetta Eshoo (1).pdf



Dear City Council,

The next weeks and upcoming months will be crucial to address jet noise issues with the FAA. I know
many of you are concerned about this problem, and are aware of the input given to the City's priority
setting community survey.

This matter is at a crescendo of frustration because after working assiduously with our Congressional
leaders since the problems started in 2014, nothing from these efforts has (to date) resulted in getting
citizens sorely needed relief.

Palo Alto's most vulnerable are paying the highest toll from these impacts brought about without
warning in 2014 - impacts recognized to have real health consequences. People fighting disease,
elderly, and even people wanting to get a night's rest to get to work are very affected. Not to mention
the families who chose Palo Alto as home because of the enjoyment of the City and neighborhoods,
but who cannot have meal or a conversation in their back yard without a parade of low flying jets.

The effects on our natural environment and deleterious impacts on people from FAA actions taken in
2014 need to be addressed and corrected. You have a Historical Noise Assessment that indicates the
impacts on Palo Alto, go even beyond the FAA's own thresholds of significant impact. Your oath of
office is to defend Palo Alto, and there is much you can do to do be pro-active, to exert leadership,
and to address concerns.

Please see this News from Newport Beach who challenged the FAA on their environmental review
processes, even as an airport owner.

City, FAA Reach Tentative Agreement Further Restricting John Wayne Airport Flight Departure Paths

"The City Council understood that any litigation against the FAA would be an uphill battle and was by
no means a guaranteed success; however, the City Council was and is committed to protecting
the interests of Newport Beach residents and determined that this was a necessary challenge.
As a direct result of the City’s litigation, the FAA agreed that the NextGen flight paths will stay
between the existing SNA noise monitors and it will design and study one of the nation’s first
precision-based curved departure procedures for SNA. This procedure, planned for implementation in
the coming weeks, would in theory allow planes to follow the curves of the Upper Newport Bay,
therefore avoiding as many residential areas as possible. "

While Newport Beach Council has agreements with the FAA, to be signed by the Department of
Justice and the FAA, the status on Palo Alto's situation is currently at a standstill, limbo, no public
communications from relevant officials, much less solutions and signatures.

                                                      1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/16/2018 9:32 AM
Given the FAA's Initiative to address noise concerns in three congressional districts and four
counties, FAA is clearly relying on the congressional offices and regional bodies to
communicate with the public, but our own congressional representatives and regional officials are
not addressing citizen concerns. I have not received an answer to my December 4th, 2017 inquiry to
Representative Eshoo about environmental review, which I copied you on. My concerns are also
reflected in questions from Select Committee members themselves (here attached) which have
yet to be addressed.

To hear nothing is troubling - not even a note to say - "folks we are on it, we will find out what's
going on, and get back to you."

When this mess started, on April 29th, 2014 Palo Alto City Council member Gail Price asked:

“I feel as if we're running after a train that's taken off and we're just, you know, we're waving our
arms...clearly we are given inadequate information, it’s not timely, it appears as if some of
these decisions have been made, and operations have changed, so the question is do we have
any recourse at all, should we be working with our board of supervisors, should we be working with
someone else in elected office at the congressional level if we are not getting the support we need....
do we have any other recourse that can be pulled together quickly?”

As a close observer of this process, I believe that we are misled to think that all you and the City can do is to
wave your arms. There are laws which are available to protect people and the environment, which Newport
Beach and Phoenix have diligently used to protect their communities.

As we speak, there are newly published procedures and actions impacting Palo Alto which should be
deliberated for challenge. A waypoint is being changed for a procedure SERFR 3, and the public has yet to be
given a copy of the the environmental screening - a requirement for all FAA actions. Are these part of the
FAA Initiative or not. Actions only have 60 days to be appealed. Even categorical exclusions are supposed to
have a screening to declare that there is no impact. Affected communities are due proper environmental
screenings, and we also need proper consideration of alternatives to fix the problems.

Regarding analysis of alternatives, I would like to understand why the City has not been defending the
professional and responsible suggestions from the City's own aviation and noise consultants, to consider options
which take planes higher, over the water, and disperse traffic more equitably - which would help the entire
region. Pursuing alternatives was unanimously voted upon by the Select Committee (recommendation 2.5R5)
- where is Council's follow up on this? The FAA spoke during the Select Committee that the sooner cities
follow up in discussing traffic re-distribution ideas/options amongst communities, the better. Is it that officials
are paralyzed with fear of what will happen if the professional advice is considered? Why? I hear enough of
the woefully uninformed stories about the "Palo Alto Plan" to "shift noise." How would anyone know this is
the case, when congressional and regional officials are unwilling to give evaluations of alternatives even a
chance for adequate follow up - using state of the art tools like AEDT intended to facilitate public outreach? I
will add that I also hear people asking "how North Palo Alto got noise shifted to South Palo Alto." And
Roundtable officials accuse "wealthy Palo Altans" of money corruption with FAA. This irresponsible nonsense
needs to be replaced by AEDT reports which can model everything. And with work for real solutions - instead
of zero sum game proposals which perpetuate doing nothing to solve the problems.

While there was much skepticism at the outset of the Select Committee, Palo Alto and the Mid Peninsula
received votes for some crucial assessments of alternatives which the FAA said they would be willing to
work with (including the full length of the Bay idea in R2.5r5). Adequate analysis and follow up on these
items, with AEDT is imperative. Without traction on the few opportunities Palo Alto and Mid Pen were able to
                                                          2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/16/2018 9:32 AM
gain from the Select Committee process, this all could turn to be the biggest hoax on the public. Please speak
up, ask questions yourselves. Take a lead on getting solutions for the city you were elected to defend - all
neighborhoods, no neighborhood should be left behind.

Finally, on December 12, 2017, I attended the Policy & Services Committee and submitted a request
for the City to conduct a legal Analysis of airspace procedures which impact the City of Palo
Alto; review the current situation: the Environmental reviews done and not done to date; the status of
the administrative record. A legal analysis should also review where and how cumulative impacts
are being considered and consider new information obtained in last six months. I provided a
sample of the legal investigation done for Phoenix.

Understanding the laws and rights to properly advocate with FAA is something we have requested for
months/years for the City to do, please make sure it gets done (in a professional report by aviation counsel as
Phoenix commissioned), and expeditiously.

Thank you,

Jennifer




                                                        3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 1:53 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Arlene Goetze <photowrite67@yahoo.com>
Sent:                            Wednesday, January 10, 2018 12:22 PM
To:                              cityclerk@cupertino.org
Subject:                         NVIC pays $billions for flu shot damage to adults



The NVIC has secretly paid $3 billion or more in recent years to adult victims of the flu
vaccine...


     not the flu...but the vaccine. Flu is the most dangerous vaccine.
     Babies are not reimbursed....and most adult cases are dismissed.

Why is it such a secret than most Americans have never been told about
it??

If we get sick on peanuts, we're told to give it to babies earlier (it's been secret in vaccines for decades)
If eating gluten makes us very sick, we should eat it anyway.
If the vaccine doesn't work, we should take it anyway.
How crazy is the health industry anyway! What kind of logic is this?
Why does the AMA, Public Health and media like Mercury News and TV support this nonsense???

   ----Where is support for getting rid of the dangerous ingredients in vaccines??----
        (India is suing Bill Gates and WHO for 47,000 paralyzed kids after
               he gave India the US polio vaccine in 2000.)

         --------Please read about the NVIC!!-----------
      A bit of Education from Arlene Goetze, MA, Health writer, NO Toxins for Children, photowrite67@yahoo.com
----------------------
National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program | Official web site of ...
https://www.hrsa.gov/vaccine-compensation/index.ht
In these instances, the National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program (VICP) may provide
financial
compensation to individuals who file a petition and are found to have been injured by a ... Even if the
 petition is dismissed, if certain requirements are met, the Court may order the Department to
 pay attorneys' fees and costs.
Vaccine Injury Compensation Data | Official web site of the U.S. Health ...
https://www.hrsa.gov/vaccine-compensation/data/index.html
Over 80 percent of all compensation awarded by the VICP comes as result of a negotiated settlement
 between the parties in which HHS has not concluded, based upon review of the evidence, that the
alleged vaccine(s) caused the alleged injury. Attorneys are eligible for reasonable attorneys' fees,
whether or not the ...

[PDF]Data & Statistics Report - February 1, 2017 - HRSA
https://www.hrsa.gov/.../vaccinecompensation/.../vicpmonthlyreporttemplate2_1_17.p...
Feb 1, 2017 - evidence, that the alleged vaccine(s) caused the alleged injury. • Attorneys are eligible
                                                           1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 1:53 PM
 for reasonable attorneys' fees, whether or not the petitioner is awarded compensation by the Court,
 if certain minimal requirements are met. In those circumstances, attorneys are paid by the VICP
directly. By statute ...

Vaccine Safety Commission: VICP
https://vaccinesafetycommission.org/vicp.ht The Vaccine Injury Compensation Program ("VICP")
is run by the Department of Health & Human Services. Most Americans are surprised to learn that
vaccines can and do cause injury, disability and death. Some notable facts about this program:
Claims for vaccine injury have been paid by the VICPsince 1988. The money ...
---------------------
For most accurate info on vaccines consult
* Natl. Vaccine Info Center, NVIC
* Vaccine Averse Event Reporting System . VAERS

Robert F. Kennedy, Jr, is chair of World Mercury Project working to get mercury out of vaccines (it's still in 5
including multi-vial flu shots) along with aluminum and dozens of other toxins, DNA from pigs and
monkeys, gelatin (from cow blood), peanut oil, DNA from aborted fetal tissue, etc. etc. (See World Mercury
Project)
  CDC owns 13 vaccine patents and is not an unbiased government agency.




                                                       2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/16/2018 5:25 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Jeff Hoel <jeff_hoel@yahoo.com>
Sent:                              Tuesday, January 16, 2018 4:26 PM
To:                                Kniss, Liz (internal)
Cc:                                Hoel, Jeff (external); Council, City; UAC; CAC-TACC; ConnectedCity
Subject:                           Palo Alto's Next Century Cities member page


Mayor Kniss,

Now that you are the new mayor, the City will want to update its Next Century Cities member's page to say so.
http://nextcenturycities.org/member/palo-alto-ca/
The City could also consider updating the description of what Palo Alto has been doing. Please see further comments
below the "###" line.

Thanks.


Jeff

-------------------
Jeff Hoel
731 Colorado Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94303
-------------------

######################################################################

http://nextcenturycities.org/member/palo-alto-ca/

Palo Alto, CA
Mayor Greg Scharff

### Mayor Liz Kniss

On Palo Alto

“Palo Alto is a unique hub for technological innovation and is widely known as a premier startup center. Many tech giants
got their start in Palo Alto – Facebook, Google, and Hewlett Packard, to name a few. In the 1990s, the City of Palo Alto
made an investment in fiber-optics, which has proven to be a significant factor in the City’s economic growth and health.”

### Why does this paragraph appear in quotes?

On Next Century Cities

“The City’s principles and Next Century Cities’ principles for broadband expansion are closely aligned, and focus on the
importance of leveraging gigabit-speed Internet to attract new businesses and create jobs, improve health care and
education, and connect residents to new opportunities.”

### Why does this paragraph appear in quotes?

What Palo Alto is working on

The City of Palo Alto’s 49-mile Dark Fiber Optic Backbone Network was conceived in the mid-1990s. The City’s strategy
was to build a dark fiber ring capable of supporting multiple network developers and/or telecommunication service


                                                            1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/16/2018 5:25 PM
providers. The fiber network also supports the City’s communication needs and critical municipal services, including
electric, gas, water, and wastewater utility services provided by City of Palo Alto Utilities.

The City licenses “dark fiber” for commercial purposes and provides service connections to more than 100 customers,
including several value-added “resellers” that deliver a variety of telecommunication services. The network is also
connected to the public schools in Palo Alto.

The City has evaluated various business models to expand the City’s fiber network for citywide use. With the escalating
interest in deploying gigabit-speed networks, the City intends to explore public-private partnership opportunities to build a
fiber-to-the-premises (FTTP) network capable of providing gigabit-speed broadband and other services for businesses
and residents. To that end, the City has developed a Fiber-to-the-Premises Master Plan and Wireless network Plan to
guide future investment in its fiber optic asset.

### The dark fiber stuff is last-century. (Well, adding the schools is this-century -- 2012.)
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/32168

### Council heard the FTTP Master Plan and Wireless Network Plan on 09-28-15. What's new since then? The City
retreated to investigating "FTTN" (a term the rest of the world thinks means something else).

### Some NCC members (Fort Collins, Boulder, ...) have been finding out that public-private partnerships are not
working out for them.




                                                               2
Pickleball Player Facilities Should Not Come at The Expense of Existing Tennis Players.
Tennis players are uniformly not against the growth of pickleball, as a fellow sport, and support
the addition of community resources to develop facilities to support the growth of pickleball, as
most tennis players can see becoming pickleball players when they can no longer compete in
Tennis.

That does not mean the Tennis players are willing to lose the few tennis facilities currently open
in South Palo Alto to play tennis under the lights, as they would not like to see basketball
players lose basketball courts or swimmers lose their pools, to make room for a new sport.

Because tennis and racquet ball are both racquet sports, does not mean transfer of resources
between the sports makes any logical sense. The incumbent and very popular sport of Tennis
should not need to sacrifice facilities to make room for the emerging sport of Pickleball,
especially since Tennis is continuing to grow and already is under resourced in Palo Alto, with
long wait times for players.

Tennis and Pickleball Are Both Popular Sports:
Tennis is the established, global sport, with nearly 8 times the players, and having added more
players even in 2016. To displace tennis for pickleball is to bet against the installed base, the
continued growing popularity and the momentum of tennis…..

Tennis has been around for centuries, is globally popular sport, featured every 4 years in the
Olympics, generates over $2bn in event revenues globally with tennis tournaments, has
celebrity athletes (Roger Federer made $70m in 2917), features leagues, supports academic
teams and even features rewarding college scholarships (very important to the many Palo Alto
parents of high school/middle school students).

According to Statistica.com, there were 17.96m players in the US in 2016, having added 60,000
when compared to 2015. Statistics on participation by age group was not available for free, but
can be obtained from Statistica.com for a fee.

Pickleball was invented in 1965, and has been growing fast, particularly in the USA, and
appealing largely to older members of the population. “Pickleball is still primarily popular
among baby boomers, particularly former tennis players who still love court sports” according
to an article by Tennis Industry Magazine.

It was reported by Accordingly to the USAPA (United States of America Pickleball Association),
66% of their players in 2016 where 60 years of age or older, and including many tennis players
who can no longer play tennis. Popularity with younger players, 39 years old or younger, has
remained flat at 6%, according to the USAPA’s 2016 and 2015 fact sheets. According to the
USAPA’s 2016 fact sheet, there were 2.506m pickleball players in 2016, having added 44,000
when compared to 2015.
Tennis is a sport for younger players, pickleball for older players.
As mentioned earlier, 66% of pickleball players are 60 years or older, but not many people 60
years or older are interested in racquet sports for their health and fitness or social activity.
According to the 2017 Report of the Physical Activity Council, less than 7% of the baby boomers,
those born in 1965 or earlier (53 or older) participate in ANY racquet sports.

In contrast, 20% of 37 years old or younger participate in racquet sports, and we already know
from the USAPA’s 2016 fact sheet that popularity in pickleball for those 39 or younger has
remained flat at a very low level of 6%. At the same time as the younger segment will be
playing tennis, they represent a very active group with 61-68% participating in sports actively or
casually.

So, a higher percentage of younger players are (37 or younger) more likely to play racquet
sports, and to select to play tennis. A smaller percentage of older players (53 or older) are likely
to play racquet sports, and more likely to play pickleball. At the same time as the older segment
will be playing pickleball, they represent the least active group with 38% participating in sports
actively or casually.

By consuming tennis facilities to support pickleball, the Palo Alto city leaders will be taking
away resources from the preferred racquet sport for the most active segment of residents, to
satisfy a segment with a smaller player base, that is also less active in athletics.

Tennis is an International Sport, Popular All Over the World. Palo Alto is Becoming
Increasingly International, With Residents Who Play Tennis Moving into Palo Alto.
According to the Population, Housing and Employment Report for the City of Palo Alto,
published in August 29, 2016, the population is continuing to become more diverse, with
traditional resident base retiring and moving out of the area, while immigrants moving in:

                       2000           1010            Change
Caucasian              73%            61%             -12%
Asian                  17%            27%             +10%
Hispanic                5%             6%              +1%
Other                   5%             6%              +1%

These new residents are more likely to be tennis players, and very unlikely to be pickleball
players, based on demographics of the two sports. The demand for tennis facilities is expected
to continue to grow, so reducing the facilities will increase resident wait times for play and
cause significant dissatisfaction and complaints to the municipal leaders.

Avoiding “Pickleball Wars”
All over the USA, municipal leaders are struggling with what to do for pickleball players who
approach them for facilities to support their new sport. Often, municipal leaders are convinced
to share or convert tennis courts for use by pickleball players. Where there is a largely senior
resident population, that option has sometimes served well, where that is not the case, it has
created controversy, particularly where it has attempted to displace entrenched and active
tennis communities.

In the “Pickleball War of 2010” which occurred in Rockford, Illinois in 2010, the municipal
leaders faced fierce and vocal resistance from local tennis players when the Rockford Park
District had initially been convinced by pickleball players to replace two tennis courts with 8
pickleball courts. There was such a backlash from the residents and tennis player community,
that the Park District selected a third court in a more remote park to be converted into 4
pickleball courts as a compromise. Unfortunately, pickleball is not tennis, meaning that its play
results in loud, rapid noise like a hammer hitting an anvil, which annoyed the residents
surrounding the park. Eventually the neighbors filed a court injunction against the park district,
which ended pickleball play at that park.

Communities without the park facilities remote from residences have found more success in
using indoor gymnasiums with hours of play dedicated to pickleball leagues and free play,
where the courts are always lit, equipment can be stored and players shielded from weather
conditions.

Making Palo Alto Future Ready
Palo alto is going to continue to grow in population, according to the 2016 Palo Alto City
Planning Report that forecasts the population of 67,000 in 2016 to grow to 69,000 in 2020 and
perhaps 73,000 in 2030.

The report also projected that the population will be increasing in age, while aging with an
increasing proportion of children and younger people. This is because the fastest growing
employers in and around Palo Alto are in the technology sector, which typically employ single
people, young married couples and couples/single adults with school aged children.

As the reader will quickly realize, this trend indicates that the demand for tennis facilities will
increase, not decrease. With younger players (adults and children) 39 years or younger being
more athletically active, and according to statistics preferring tennis, there will be more
pressure on municipal leaders to add tennis courts, especially with lights for evening play. This
is independently from whether demand for pickleball will rise or fall in Palo Alto.

We feel the Municipal leaders of Palo Alto should be exploring the addition of new, lit tennis
courts, not reducing any Tennis Courts. Pickleball should be supported, if there is demand by
Palo Alto residents, and best served with indoor facilities, where players can have lit courts,
protected from weather effects and without the loud pickleball noise from playing won’t
disturb residents and park visitors.

Look Before You Leap
With resources in short supply, the municipal leaders need to make sure they have heard from
the residents of Palo Alto clearly before making any changes that will disrupt a significant
number of residents currently enjoying the disrupted resources.

“measure twice, to cut once”. If you cannot afford much spending, make sure you are not
wasting your funds, or spending money that will need to be followed with corrective spending.
If you are serving to maximize the benefits of Palo Alto residents, make sure you are being
influenced by Palo Alto residents and not taking actions that cater to those who do not live in
Palo Alto, work or go to school in Palo Alto.

Very few people seem to be aware of the proposal to convert lit tennis courts into dedicated
pickleball courts, and in the short amount of time since its discovery there has already been
vocal resentment about these plans. This could have the opposite effect the city planners had
intended when contemplating this proposed change.
Pickleball Player Facilities Should Not Come at The Expense of Existing Tennis Players.
Tennis players are uniformly not against the growth of pickleball, as a fellow sport, and support
the addition of community resources to develop facilities to support the growth of pickleball, as
most tennis players can see becoming pickleball players when they can no longer compete in
Tennis.

That does not mean the Tennis players are willing to lose the few tennis facilities currently open
in South Palo Alto to play tennis under the lights, as they would not like to see basketball
players lose basketball courts or swimmers lose their pools, to make room for a new sport.

Because tennis and racquet ball are both racquet sports, does not mean transfer of resources
between the sports makes any logical sense. The incumbent and very popular sport of Tennis
should not need to sacrifice facilities to make room for the emerging sport of Pickleball,
especially since Tennis is continuing to grow and already is under resourced in Palo Alto, with
long wait times for players.

Tennis and Pickleball Are Both Popular Sports:
Tennis is the established, global sport, with nearly 8 times the players, and having added more
players even in 2016. To displace tennis for pickleball is to bet against the installed base, the
continued growing popularity and the momentum of tennis…..

Tennis has been around for centuries, is globally popular sport, featured every 4 years in the
Olympics, generates over $2bn in event revenues globally with tennis tournaments, has
celebrity athletes (Roger Federer made $70m in 2917), features leagues, supports academic
teams and even features rewarding college scholarships (very important to the many Palo Alto
parents of high school/middle school students).

According to Statistica.com, there were 17.96m players in the US in 2016, having added 60,000
when compared to 2015. Statistics on participation by age group was not available for free, but
can be obtained from Statistica.com for a fee.

Pickleball was invented in 1965, and has been growing fast, particularly in the USA, and
appealing largely to older members of the population. “Pickleball is still primarily popular
among baby boomers, particularly former tennis players who still love court sports” according
to an article by Tennis Industry Magazine.

It was reported by Accordingly to the USAPA (United States of America Pickleball Association),
66% of their players in 2016 where 60 years of age or older, and including many tennis players
who can no longer play tennis. Popularity with younger players, 39 years old or younger, has
remained flat at 6%, according to the USAPA’s 2016 and 2015 fact sheets. According to the
USAPA’s 2016 fact sheet, there were 2.506m pickleball players in 2016, having added 44,000
when compared to 2015.
Tennis is a sport for younger players, pickleball for older players.
As mentioned earlier, 66% of pickleball players are 60 years or older, but not many people 60
years or older are interested in racquet sports for their health and fitness or social activity.
According to the 2017 Report of the Physical Activity Council, less than 7% of the baby boomers,
those born in 1965 or earlier (53 or older) participate in ANY racquet sports.

In contrast, 20% of 37 years old or younger participate in racquet sports, and we already know
from the USAPA’s 2016 fact sheet that popularity in pickleball for those 39 or younger has
remained flat at a very low level of 6%. At the same time as the younger segment will be
playing tennis, they represent a very active group with 61-68% participating in sports actively or
casually.

So, a higher percentage of younger players are (37 or younger) more likely to play racquet
sports, and to select to play tennis. A smaller percentage of older players (53 or older) are likely
to play racquet sports, and more likely to play pickleball. At the same time as the older segment
will be playing pickleball, they represent the least active group with 38% participating in sports
actively or casually.

By consuming tennis facilities to support pickleball, the Palo Alto city leaders will be taking
away resources from the preferred racquet sport for the most active segment of residents, to
satisfy a segment with a smaller player base, that is also less active in athletics.

Tennis is an International Sport, Popular All Over the World. Palo Alto is Becoming
Increasingly International, With Residents Who Play Tennis Moving into Palo Alto.
According to the Population, Housing and Employment Report for the City of Palo Alto,
published in August 29, 2016, the population is continuing to become more diverse, with
traditional resident base retiring and moving out of the area, while immigrants moving in:

                       2000           1010            Change
Caucasian              73%            61%             -12%
Asian                  17%            27%             +10%
Hispanic                5%             6%              +1%
Other                   5%             6%              +1%

These new residents are more likely to be tennis players, and very unlikely to be pickleball
players, based on demographics of the two sports. The demand for tennis facilities is expected
to continue to grow, so reducing the facilities will increase resident wait times for play and
cause significant dissatisfaction and complaints to the municipal leaders.

Avoiding “Pickleball Wars”
All over the USA, municipal leaders are struggling with what to do for pickleball players who
approach them for facilities to support their new sport. Often, municipal leaders are convinced
to share or convert tennis courts for use by pickleball players. Where there is a largely senior
resident population, that option has sometimes served well, where that is not the case, it has
created controversy, particularly where it has attempted to displace entrenched and active
tennis communities.

In the “Pickleball War of 2010” which occurred in Rockford, Illinois in 2010, the municipal
leaders faced fierce and vocal resistance from local tennis players when the Rockford Park
District had initially been convinced by pickleball players to replace two tennis courts with 8
pickleball courts. There was such a backlash from the residents and tennis player community,
that the Park District selected a third court in a more remote park to be converted into 4
pickleball courts as a compromise. Unfortunately, pickleball is not tennis, meaning that its play
results in loud, rapid noise like a hammer hitting an anvil, which annoyed the residents
surrounding the park. Eventually the neighbors filed a court injunction against the park district,
which ended pickleball play at that park.

Communities without the park facilities remote from residences have found more success in
using indoor gymnasiums with hours of play dedicated to pickleball leagues and free play,
where the courts are always lit, equipment can be stored and players shielded from weather
conditions.

Making Palo Alto Future Ready
Palo alto is going to continue to grow in population, according to the 2016 Palo Alto City
Planning Report that forecasts the population of 67,000 in 2016 to grow to 69,000 in 2020 and
perhaps 73,000 in 2030.

The report also projected that the population will be increasing in age, while aging with an
increasing proportion of children and younger people. This is because the fastest growing
employers in and around Palo Alto are in the technology sector, which typically employ single
people, young married couples and couples/single adults with school aged children.

As the reader will quickly realize, this trend indicates that the demand for tennis facilities will
increase, not decrease. With younger players (adults and children) 39 years or younger being
more athletically active, and according to statistics preferring tennis, there will be more
pressure on municipal leaders to add tennis courts, especially with lights for evening play. This
is independently from whether demand for pickleball will rise or fall in Palo Alto.

We feel the Municipal leaders of Palo Alto should be exploring the addition of new, lit tennis
courts, not reducing any Tennis Courts. Pickleball should be supported, if there is demand by
Palo Alto residents, and best served with indoor facilities, where players can have lit courts,
protected from weather effects and without the loud pickleball noise from playing won’t
disturb residents and park visitors.

Look Before You Leap
With resources in short supply, the municipal leaders need to make sure they have heard from
the residents of Palo Alto clearly before making any changes that will disrupt a significant
number of residents currently enjoying the disrupted resources.

“measure twice, to cut once”. If you cannot afford much spending, make sure you are not
wasting your funds, or spending money that will need to be followed with corrective spending.
If you are serving to maximize the benefits of Palo Alto residents, make sure you are being
influenced by Palo Alto residents and not taking actions that cater to those who do not live in
Palo Alto, work or go to school in Palo Alto.

Very few people seem to be aware of the proposal to convert lit tennis courts into dedicated
pickleball courts, and in the short amount of time since its discovery there has already been
vocal resentment about these plans. This could have the opposite effect the city planners had
intended when contemplating this proposed change.
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/16/2018 9:33 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                               Jeff Hoel <jeff_hoel@yahoo.com>
Sent:                               Saturday, January 13, 2018 1:52 PM
To:                                 UAC
Cc:                                 Hoel, Jeff (external); Council, City
Subject:                            4Q17 Utilities Quarterly Report / Public Letters


Commissioners,

The agenda for UAC's 01-18-18 meeting was posted on 01-10-18.
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/62833

1. There's a pointer to an "informational report," which is the 4Q17 Utilities Quarterly Report (01-18-18) (36 pages).
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/62831

a. In the old days, each Utilities Quarterly Report was individually agendized when it came out, so that if the
commissioners had questions or comments, they could be raised.

b. From the UAC home page, you can click on "UAC Informational Reports" to go here:
https://cityofpaloalto.org/gov/boards/uac/reports/default.asp
This page lists the 2Q17 Utilities Quarterly Report (05-03-17), but NOT the 3Q17 or 4Q17 Utilities Quarterly Reports. I'd
like to see each Utilities Quarterly Update posted here when it comes out. I fear that the 3Q17 Utilities Quarterly
Update might never be published, and that an explanation for its absence might not be published either.

c. In the past, Fourth Quarter Utilities Quarterly Updates have had more information than the 4Q17 Utilities Quarterly
Update has. See, for example:
* 4Q16 Utilities Quarterly Update (11-02-16) (70 pages)
https://cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/54496
* 4Q15 Utilities Quarterly Update (10-07-15) (56 pages)
https://cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/49291
* 4Q14 Utilities Quarterly Update (10-01-14) (56 pages)
https://cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/44031
In each of these, there are four pages of information about reliability of the electric distribution system. I would think
that the commissioners would be interested in this.

d. During agenda item IX.3 ("Selection of Potential Topic(s) for Discussion at a Future UAC Meeting"), please ask that the
topic of Utilities Quarterly Updates be agendized, so that you can talk about all these things



2. The 01-18-18 agenda doesn't have a clickable link to "Public Letter(s) to the UAC." I thought this was a great
service. Is staff proposing to stop providing this information? Or will the service be resumed with the 02-07-18
agenda? If you haven't found out before Item IX.3, please consider agendizing a discussion of this too.

Thanks.


Jeff




                                                               1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/16/2018 5:26 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Marc Naddell <marc_naddell@yahoo.com>
Sent:                              Tuesday, January 16, 2018 10:06 AM
To:                                Howard, Adam
Cc:                                ParkRec Commission; Council, City
Subject:                           Re: Concerns About Plans to Displace Tennis Play in Palo Alto



Adam,

We greatly appreciate all involved with their professionalism and thoroughness, and welcome our opportunity
to contribute to your processes. I’d welcome an opportunity to meet you personally to share concerns and
suggestions.

Perhaps you have time next Monday?

Regards,
Marc Naddell
(312) 823-2877



        On Jan 16, 2018, at 10:01 AM, Howard, Adam <Adam.Howard@CityofPaloAlto.org> wrote:

        Good Morning Mr. Naddell,
        The meeting on January 23rd is the regularly scheduled monthly Parks and Recreation Committee
        meeting. The Parks and Recreation Committee will be looking at this topic before it goes to the City
        Council. However, The Pickleball/Tennis court discussion is not on the agenda for this meeting but you
        are welcome to speak at the open communication section at the start of the meeting.
        Staff is still very early in the project and is still gathering information and ideas about Pickleball and
        tennis courts. We are not ready to make a formal recommendation, and the proposal to convert
        Mitchell Park Courts 5,6,7 was only a first idea. Staff is still gathering information and ideas to move
        forward with. We understand there needs to be much more conversation around this topic and we will
        invite you and any other members of the public to meetings when we have more ideas and information
        to share.



        You are still welcome to express your concerns at the start of the January 23rd meeting in open
        communication section of the meeting. I’m also happy to meet with you personally to hear some of your
        concerns and suggestions.

        Please feel free to contact me

        Thank you




                                                             1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/16/2018 5:26 PM
       <image002.jpg> Adam Howard | Community Services Manager | Mitchell Park Community
       Center
        Community Services Department
        3700 Middlefield Road| Palo Alto, CA 94303
        O: 650.329.2192 F: 650.251.9109
        E-mail: Adam.howard@cityofpaloalto.org
       Please think of the environment before printing this email – Thank you!



       From: Marc Naddell [mailto:marc_naddell@yahoo.com]
       Sent: Tuesday, January 16, 2018 9:54 AM
       To: ParkRec Commission
       Cc: Howard, Adam; Council, City
       Subject: Fwd: Concerns About Plans to Displace Tennis Play in Palo Alto

       Parks & Recreation Department,

       We would be very appreciative if the meeting for Tuesday, January 23rd at 7p can be confirmed
       so we can inform the many residents who have signed our petition to preserve the tennis courts at
       public parks in palo alto to participate in the discussion.

       Many residents have a busy calendar with work, family and recreation, and to get them to change
       their plans isn’t always easy. Being that the date and time is a week away, it would be an
       appropriate signal to that community that the topic has priority to commit to the meeting as soon
       as possible.

       We understand that your organization has many things on it’s plate to deal with, so we want to
       help you in making the best decisions for the community and the residents.

       See the attachment….

       regards,
       Marc Naddell
       (312) 823-2877




       Begin forwarded message:

       From: Marc Naddell <marc_naddell@yahoo.com>
       Subject: Re: Concerns About Plans to Displace Tennis Play in Palo Alto
       Date: January 16, 2018 at 9:17:03 AM PST
       To: adam.howard@cityofpaloalto.org, city.council@cityofpaloalto.org

       Adam (and Council),

       We understand that there is a tentative meeting scheduled (Tuesday, Jan. 23rd @ 7p) with you
       and the other members of the City Council of Palo Alto.

                                                              2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/16/2018 5:26 PM
       We have informed a large community of tennis players who use the Palo Alto Public Tennis
       Courts, those most deeply concerned with the impact of converting Tennis Courts for use by a
       different sport.

       We need this confirmed by your council, before reaching out to them about this meeting. An
       earlier commitment makes you look good.

       Many of them have activities on our calendars, so participating will mean them changing their
       plans to come in an participate on the topic.

       Appreciate your considering making time to address the issue in the best interests of all Palo Alto
       residents…..

       regards,
       Regards,Marc Naddell
       (312) 823-2877




       On Jan 12, 2018, at 2:59 PM, Marc Naddell <marc_naddell@yahoo.com> wrote:

       Heres the attachment….

       <Pickleball in Palo Alto?.pdf>

       Marc Naddell
       (312) 823-2877

       “THINK BIG, act small, move Fast!"




       On Jan 12, 2018, at 2:58 PM, Marc Naddell <marc_naddell@yahoo.com> wrote:

       Adam and Other City Council Members,

       I am a resident in Palo Alto, I work in Palo Alto, and my five member family play tennis in Palo
       Alto.

       My wife and I are in several leagues and all three children play on their school tennis teams.

       I just learned about a proposal to replace three tennis courts with pickleball courts, and though on
       the surface that sounds like a good idea, I am sharing statistics and logic that will show you that
       is a bad decision for Palo Alto residents, for whom I am convinced you are trying maximize
       benefits with your decisions.




                                                        3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/16/2018 5:26 PM



       Pickleball Player Facilities Should Not Come at The Expense of Existing Tennis Players.

       Tennis players are uniformly not against the growth of pickleball, as a fellow sport, and support
       the addition of community resources to develop facilities to support the growth of pickleball, as
       most tennis players can see becoming pickleball players when they can no longer compete in
       Tennis.



       That does not mean the Tennis players are willing to lose the few tennis facilities currently open
       in South Palo Alto to play tennis under the lights, as they would not like to see basketball players
       lose basketball courts or swimmers lose their pools, to make room for a new sport.



       Because tennis and racquet ball are both racquet sports, does not mean transfer of resources
       between the sports makes any logical sense. The incumbent and very popular sport of Tennis
       should not need to sacrifice facilities to make room for the emerging sport of Pickleball,
       especially since Tennis is continuing to grow and already is under resourced in Palo Alto, with
       long wait times for players.



       Tennis and Pickleball Are Both Popular Sports:

       Tennis is the established, global sport, with nearly 8 times the players, and having added more
       players even in 2016. To displace tennis for pickleball is to bet against the installed base, the
       continued growing popularity and the momentum of tennis…..



       Tennis has been around for centuries, is globally popular sport, featured every 4 years in the
       Olympics, generates over $2bn in event revenues globally with tennis tournaments, has celebrity
       athletes (Roger Federer made $70m in 2917), features leagues, supports academic teams and
       even features rewarding college scholarships (very important to the many Palo Alto parents of
       high school/middle school students).



       According to Statistica.com, there were 17.96m players in the US in 2016, having added 60,000
       when compared to 2015. Statistics on participation by age group was not available for free, but
       can be obtained from Statistica.com for a fee.



       Pickleball was invented in 1965, and has been growing fast, particularly in the USA, and
       appealing largely to older members of the population. “Pickleball is still primarily popular

                                                        4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/16/2018 5:26 PM
       among baby boomers, particularly former tennis players who still love court sports” according to
       an article by Tennis Industry Magazine.



       It was reported by Accordingly to the USAPA (United States of America Pickleball
       Association), 66% of their players in 2016 where 60 years of age or older, and including many
       tennis players who can no longer play tennis. Popularity with younger players, 39 years old or
       younger, has remained flat at 6%, according to the USAPA’s 2016 and 2015 fact sheets.
       According to the USAPA’s 2016 fact sheet, there were 2.506m pickleball players in 2016,
       having added 44,000 when compared to 2015.



       Tennis is a sport for younger players, pickleball for older players.

       As mentioned earlier, 66% of pickleball players are 60 years or older, but not many people 60
       years or older are interested in racquet sports for their health and fitness or social activity.
       According to the 2017 Report of the Physical Activity Council, less than 7% of the baby
       boomers, those born in 1965 or earlier (53 or older) participate in ANY racquet sports.



       In contrast, 20% of 37 years old or younger participate in racquet sports, and we already know
       from the USAPA’s 2016 fact sheet that popularity in pickleball for those 39 or younger has
       remained flat at a very low level of 6%. At the same time as the younger segment will be
       playing tennis, they represent a very active group with 61-68% participating in sports actively or
       casually.



       So, a higher percentage of younger players are (37 or younger) more likely to play racquet
       sports, and to select to play tennis. A smaller percentage of older players (53 or older) are likely
       to play racquet sports, and more likely to play pickleball. At the same time as the older segment
       will be playing pickleball, they represent the least active group with 38% participating in sports
       actively or casually.



       By consuming tennis facilities to support pickleball, the Palo Alto city leaders will be taking
       away resources from the preferred racquet sport for the most active segment of residents, to
       satisfy a segment with a smaller player base, that is also less active in athletics.



       Tennis is an International Sport, Popular All Over the World. Palo Alto is Becoming
       Increasingly International, With Residents Who Play Tennis Moving into Palo Alto.



                                                         5
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/16/2018 5:26 PM
       According to the Population, Housing and Employment Report for the City of Palo Alto,
       published in August 29, 2016, the population is continuing to become more diverse, with
       traditional resident base retiring and moving out of the area, while immigrants moving in:



                              2000           1010           Change

       Caucasian              73%             61%            -12%

       Asian                  17%            27%             +10%

       Hispanic               5%              6%              +1%

       Other                   5%              6%             +1%



       These new residents are more likely to be tennis players, and very unlikely to be pickleball
       players, based on demographics of the two sports. The demand for tennis facilities is expected to
       continue to grow, so reducing the facilities will increase resident wait times for play and cause
       significant dissatisfaction and complaints to the municipal leaders.



       Avoiding “Pickleball Wars”

       All over the USA, municipal leaders are struggling with what to do for pickleball players who
       approach them for facilities to support their new sport. Often, municipal leaders are convinced to
       share or convert tennis courts for use by pickleball players. Where there is a largely senior
       resident population, that option has sometimes served well, where that is not the case, it has
       created controversy, particularly where it has attempted to displace entrenched and active tennis
       communities.



       In the “Pickleball War of 2010” which occurred in Rockford, Illinois in 2010, the municipal
       leaders faced fierce and vocal resistance from local tennis players when the Rockford Park
       District had initially been convinced by pickleball players to replace two tennis courts with 8
       pickleball courts. There was such a backlash from the residents and tennis player community,
       that the Park District selected a third court in a more remote park to be converted into 4
       pickleball courts as a compromise. Unfortunately, pickleball is not tennis, meaning that its play
       results in loud, rapid noise like a hammer hitting an anvil, which annoyed the residents
       surrounding the park. Eventually the neighbors filed a court injunction against the park district,
       which ended pickleball play at that park.




                                                        6
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/16/2018 5:26 PM
       Communities without the park facilities remote from residences have found more success in
       using indoor gymnasiums with hours of play dedicated to pickleball leagues and free play, where
       the courts are always lit, equipment can be stored and players shielded from weather conditions.

       The attachment includes the following study:

       Pickleball Player Facilities Should Not Come at The Expense of Existing Tennis Players.

       Tennis players are uniformly not against the growth of pickleball, as a fellow sport, and support
       the addition of community resources to develop facilities to support the growth of pickleball, as
       most tennis players can see becoming pickleball players when they can no longer compete in
       Tennis.



       That does not mean the Tennis players are willing to lose the few tennis facilities currently open
       in South Palo Alto to play tennis under the lights, as they would not like to see basketball players
       lose basketball courts or swimmers lose their pools, to make room for a new sport.



       Because tennis and racquet ball are both racquet sports, does not mean transfer of resources
       between the sports makes any logical sense. The incumbent and very popular sport of Tennis
       should not need to sacrifice facilities to make room for the emerging sport of Pickleball,
       especially since Tennis is continuing to grow and already is under resourced in Palo Alto, with
       long wait times for players.



       Tennis and Pickleball Are Both Popular Sports:

       Tennis is the established, global sport, with nearly 8 times the players, and having added more
       players even in 2016. To displace tennis for pickleball is to bet against the installed base, the
       continued growing popularity and the momentum of tennis…..



       Tennis has been around for centuries, is globally popular sport, featured every 4 years in the
       Olympics, generates over $2bn in event revenues globally with tennis tournaments, has celebrity
       athletes (Roger Federer made $70m in 2917), features leagues, supports academic teams and
       even features rewarding college scholarships (very important to the many Palo Alto parents of
       high school/middle school students).



       According to Statistica.com, there were 17.96m players in the US in 2016, having added 60,000
       when compared to 2015. Statistics on participation by age group was not available for free, but
       can be obtained from Statistica.com for a fee.


                                                        7
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/16/2018 5:26 PM
       Pickleball was invented in 1965, and has been growing fast, particularly in the USA, and
       appealing largely to older members of the population. “Pickleball is still primarily popular
       among baby boomers, particularly former tennis players who still love court sports” according to
       an article by Tennis Industry Magazine.



       It was reported by Accordingly to the USAPA (United States of America Pickleball
       Association), 66% of their players in 2016 where 60 years of age or older, and including many
       tennis players who can no longer play tennis. Popularity with younger players, 39 years old or
       younger, has remained flat at 6%, according to the USAPA’s 2016 and 2015 fact sheets.
       According to the USAPA’s 2016 fact sheet, there were 2.506m pickleball players in 2016,
       having added 44,000 when compared to 2015.

       Tennis is a sport for younger players, pickleball for older players.

       As mentioned earlier, 66% of pickleball players are 60 years or older, but not many people 60
       years or older are interested in racquet sports for their health and fitness or social activity.
       According to the 2017 Report of the Physical Activity Council, less than 7% of the baby
       boomers, those born in 1965 or earlier (53 or older) participate in ANY racquet sports.

       In contrast, 20% of 37 years old or younger participate in racquet sports, and we already know
       from the USAPA’s 2016 fact sheet that popularity in pickleball for those 39 or younger has
       remained flat at a very low level of 6%. At the same time as the younger segment will be
       playing tennis, they represent a very active group with 61-68% participating in sports actively or
       casually.

       So, a higher percentage of younger players are (37 or younger) more likely to play racquet
       sports, and to select to play tennis. A smaller percentage of older players (53 or older) are likely
       to play racquet sports, and more likely to play pickleball. At the same time as the older segment
       will be playing pickleball, they represent the least active group with 38% participating in sports
       actively or casually.

       By consuming tennis facilities to support pickleball, the Palo Alto city leaders will be taking
       away resources from the preferred racquet sport for the most active segment of residents, to
       satisfy a segment with a smaller player base, that is also less active in athletics.

       Tennis is an International Sport, Popular All Over the World. Palo Alto is Becoming
       Increasingly International, With Residents Who Play Tennis Moving into Palo Alto.

       According to the Population, Housing and Employment Report for the City of Palo Alto,
       published in August 29, 2016, the population is continuing to become more diverse, with
       traditional resident base retiring and moving out of the area, while immigrants moving in:

                     2000            1010            Change

       Caucasian      73%             61%             -12%

       Asian           17%             27%             +10%

                                                         8
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/16/2018 5:26 PM
       Hispanic         5%              6%              +1%

       Other             5%              6%             +1%

       These new residents are more likely to be tennis players, and very unlikely to be pickleball
       players, based on demographics of the two sports. The demand for tennis facilities is expected to
       continue to grow, so reducing the facilities will increase resident wait times for play and
       cause significant dissatisfaction and complaints to the municipal leaders.

       Avoiding “Pickleball Wars”

       All over the USA, municipal leaders are struggling with what to do for pickleball players who
       approach them for facilities to support their new sport. Often, municipal leaders are approached
       to share or convert tennis courts for use by pickleball players. Where there is a largely senior
       resident population, that option has sometimes served well, where that is not the case, it has
       created controversy, particularly where it has attempted to displace entrenched and active tennis
       communities.

       In the “Pickleball War of 2010” which occurred in Rockford, Illinois in 2010, the municipal
       leaders faced fierce and vocal resistance from local tennis players when the Rockford Park
       District had initially been convinced by pickleball players to replace two tennis courts with 8
       pickleball courts. There was such a backlash from the residents and tennis player community,
       that the Park District selected a third court in a more remote park to be converted into 4
       pickleball courts as a compromise. Unfortunately, pickleball is not tennis, meaning that its play
       results in loud, rapid noise like a hammer hitting an anvil, which annoyed the residents
       surrounding the park. Eventually the neighbors filed a court injunction against the park district,
       which ended pickleball play at that park.

       Communities without the park facilities remote from residences have found more success in
       using indoor gymnasiumswith hours of play dedicated to pickleball leagues and free play, where
       the courts are always lit, equipment can be stored and players shielded from weather conditions.

       Making Palo Alto Future Ready

       Palo alto is going to continue to grow in population, according to the 2016 Palo Alto City
       Planning Report that forecasts the population of 67,000 in 2016 to grow to 69,000 in 2020 and
       perhaps 73,000 in 2030.

       The report also projected that the population will be increasing in age, while aging with an
       increasing proportion of children and younger people. This is because the fastest growing
       employers in and around Palo Alto are in the technology sector, which typically employ single
       people, young married couples and couples/single adults with school aged children.

       As the reader will quickly realize, this trend indicates that the demand for tennis facilities will
       increase, not decrease. With younger players (adults and children) 39 years or younger being
       more athletically active, and according to statistics preferring tennis, there will be more pressure
       on municipal leaders to add tennis courts, especially with lights for evening play. This is
       independently from whether demand for pickleball will rise or fall in Palo Alto.


                                                         9
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/16/2018 5:26 PM
       We feel the Municipal leaders of Palo Alto should be exploring the addition of new, lit tennis
       courts, not reducing any Tennis Courts. Pickleball should be supported, if there is demand by
       Palo Alto residents, and best served with indoor facilities, where players can have lit courts,
       protected from weather effects and without the loud pickleball noise from playing won’t disturb
       residents and park visitors.

       Look Before You Leap

       With resources in short supply, the municipal leaders need to make sure they have heard from
       the residents of Palo Alto clearly before making any changes that will disrupt a significant
       number of residents currently enjoying the disrupted resources.

       “measure twice, to cut once”. If you cannot afford much spending, make sure you are not
       wasting your funds, or spending money that will need to be followed with corrective spending. If
       you are serving to maximize the benefits of Palo Alto residents, make sure you are being
       influenced by Palo Alto residents and not taking actions that cater to those who do not live in
       Palo Alto, work or go to school in Palo Alto.

       Very few people seem to be aware of the proposal to convert lit tennis courts into dedicated
       pickleball courts, and in the short amount of time since its discovery there has already been vocal
       resentment about these plans. This could have the opposite effect the city planners had intended
       when contemplating this proposed change.


       Marc Naddell
       (312) 823-2877

       “THINK BIG, act small, move Fast!"




                                                       10
Pickleball Player Facilities Should Not Come at The Expense of Existing Tennis Players.
Tennis players are uniformly not against the growth of pickleball, as a fellow sport, and support
the addition of community resources to develop facilities to support the growth of pickleball, as
most tennis players can see becoming pickleball players when they can no longer compete in
Tennis.

That does not mean the Tennis players are willing to lose the few tennis facilities currently open
in South Palo Alto to play tennis under the lights, as they would not like to see basketball
players lose basketball courts or swimmers lose their pools, to make room for a new sport.

Because tennis and racquet ball are both racquet sports, does not mean transfer of resources
between the sports makes any logical sense. The incumbent and very popular sport of Tennis
should not need to sacrifice facilities to make room for the emerging sport of Pickleball,
especially since Tennis is continuing to grow and already is under resourced in Palo Alto, with
long wait times for players.

Tennis and Pickleball Are Both Popular Sports:
Tennis is the established, global sport, with nearly 8 times the players, and having added more
players even in 2016. To displace tennis for pickleball is to bet against the installed base, the
continued growing popularity and the momentum of tennis…..

Tennis has been around for centuries, is globally popular sport, featured every 4 years in the
Olympics, generates over $2bn in event revenues globally with tennis tournaments, has
celebrity athletes (Roger Federer made $70m in 2917), features leagues, supports academic
teams and even features rewarding college scholarships (very important to the many Palo Alto
parents of high school/middle school students).

According to Statistica.com, there were 17.96m players in the US in 2016, having added 60,000
when compared to 2015. Statistics on participation by age group was not available for free, but
can be obtained from Statistica.com for a fee.

Pickleball was invented in 1965, and has been growing fast, particularly in the USA, and
appealing largely to older members of the population. “Pickleball is still primarily popular
among baby boomers, particularly former tennis players who still love court sports” according
to an article by Tennis Industry Magazine.

It was reported by Accordingly to the USAPA (United States of America Pickleball Association),
66% of their players in 2016 where 60 years of age or older, and including many tennis players
who can no longer play tennis. Popularity with younger players, 39 years old or younger, has
remained flat at 6%, according to the USAPA’s 2016 and 2015 fact sheets. According to the
USAPA’s 2016 fact sheet, there were 2.506m pickleball players in 2016, having added 44,000
when compared to 2015.
Tennis is a sport for younger players, pickleball for older players.
As mentioned earlier, 66% of pickleball players are 60 years or older, but not many people 60
years or older are interested in racquet sports for their health and fitness or social activity.
According to the 2017 Report of the Physical Activity Council, less than 7% of the baby boomers,
those born in 1965 or earlier (53 or older) participate in ANY racquet sports.

In contrast, 20% of 37 years old or younger participate in racquet sports, and we already know
from the USAPA’s 2016 fact sheet that popularity in pickleball for those 39 or younger has
remained flat at a very low level of 6%. At the same time as the younger segment will be
playing tennis, they represent a very active group with 61-68% participating in sports actively or
casually.

So, a higher percentage of younger players are (37 or younger) more likely to play racquet
sports, and to select to play tennis. A smaller percentage of older players (53 or older) are likely
to play racquet sports, and more likely to play pickleball. At the same time as the older segment
will be playing pickleball, they represent the least active group with 38% participating in sports
actively or casually.

By consuming tennis facilities to support pickleball, the Palo Alto city leaders will be taking
away resources from the preferred racquet sport for the most active segment of residents, to
satisfy a segment with a smaller player base, that is also less active in athletics.

Tennis is an International Sport, Popular All Over the World. Palo Alto is Becoming
Increasingly International, With Residents Who Play Tennis Moving into Palo Alto.
According to the Population, Housing and Employment Report for the City of Palo Alto,
published in August 29, 2016, the population is continuing to become more diverse, with
traditional resident base retiring and moving out of the area, while immigrants moving in:

                       2000           1010            Change
Caucasian              73%            61%             -12%
Asian                  17%            27%             +10%
Hispanic                5%             6%              +1%
Other                   5%             6%              +1%

These new residents are more likely to be tennis players, and very unlikely to be pickleball
players, based on demographics of the two sports. The demand for tennis facilities is expected
to continue to grow, so reducing the facilities will increase resident wait times for play and
cause significant dissatisfaction and complaints to the municipal leaders.

Avoiding “Pickleball Wars”
All over the USA, municipal leaders are struggling with what to do for pickleball players who
approach them for facilities to support their new sport. Often, municipal leaders are convinced
to share or convert tennis courts for use by pickleball players. Where there is a largely senior
resident population, that option has sometimes served well, where that is not the case, it has
created controversy, particularly where it has attempted to displace entrenched and active
tennis communities.

In the “Pickleball War of 2010” which occurred in Rockford, Illinois in 2010, the municipal
leaders faced fierce and vocal resistance from local tennis players when the Rockford Park
District had initially been convinced by pickleball players to replace two tennis courts with 8
pickleball courts. There was such a backlash from the residents and tennis player community,
that the Park District selected a third court in a more remote park to be converted into 4
pickleball courts as a compromise. Unfortunately, pickleball is not tennis, meaning that its play
results in loud, rapid noise like a hammer hitting an anvil, which annoyed the residents
surrounding the park. Eventually the neighbors filed a court injunction against the park district,
which ended pickleball play at that park.

Communities without the park facilities remote from residences have found more success in
using indoor gymnasiums with hours of play dedicated to pickleball leagues and free play,
where the courts are always lit, equipment can be stored and players shielded from weather
conditions.

Making Palo Alto Future Ready
Palo alto is going to continue to grow in population, according to the 2016 Palo Alto City
Planning Report that forecasts the population of 67,000 in 2016 to grow to 69,000 in 2020 and
perhaps 73,000 in 2030.

The report also projected that the population will be increasing in age, while aging with an
increasing proportion of children and younger people. This is because the fastest growing
employers in and around Palo Alto are in the technology sector, which typically employ single
people, young married couples and couples/single adults with school aged children.

As the reader will quickly realize, this trend indicates that the demand for tennis facilities will
increase, not decrease. With younger players (adults and children) 39 years or younger being
more athletically active, and according to statistics preferring tennis, there will be more
pressure on municipal leaders to add tennis courts, especially with lights for evening play. This
is independently from whether demand for pickleball will rise or fall in Palo Alto.

We feel the Municipal leaders of Palo Alto should be exploring the addition of new, lit tennis
courts, not reducing any Tennis Courts. Pickleball should be supported, if there is demand by
Palo Alto residents, and best served with indoor facilities, where players can have lit courts,
protected from weather effects and without the loud pickleball noise from playing won’t
disturb residents and park visitors.

Look Before You Leap
With resources in short supply, the municipal leaders need to make sure they have heard from
the residents of Palo Alto clearly before making any changes that will disrupt a significant
number of residents currently enjoying the disrupted resources.

“measure twice, to cut once”. If you cannot afford much spending, make sure you are not
wasting your funds, or spending money that will need to be followed with corrective spending.
If you are serving to maximize the benefits of Palo Alto residents, make sure you are being
influenced by Palo Alto residents and not taking actions that cater to those who do not live in
Palo Alto, work or go to school in Palo Alto.

Very few people seem to be aware of the proposal to convert lit tennis courts into dedicated
pickleball courts, and in the short amount of time since its discovery there has already been
vocal resentment about these plans. This could have the opposite effect the city planners had
intended when contemplating this proposed change.
Pickleball Player Facilities Should Not Come at The Expense of Existing Tennis Players.
Tennis players are uniformly not against the growth of pickleball, as a fellow sport, and support
the addition of community resources to develop facilities to support the growth of pickleball, as
most tennis players can see becoming pickleball players when they can no longer compete in
Tennis.

That does not mean the Tennis players are willing to lose the few tennis facilities currently open
in South Palo Alto to play tennis under the lights, as they would not like to see basketball
players lose basketball courts or swimmers lose their pools, to make room for a new sport.

Because tennis and racquet ball are both racquet sports, does not mean transfer of resources
between the sports makes any logical sense. The incumbent and very popular sport of Tennis
should not need to sacrifice facilities to make room for the emerging sport of Pickleball,
especially since Tennis is continuing to grow and already is under resourced in Palo Alto, with
long wait times for players.

Tennis and Pickleball Are Both Popular Sports:
Tennis is the established, global sport, with nearly 8 times the players, and having added more
players even in 2016. To displace tennis for pickleball is to bet against the installed base, the
continued growing popularity and the momentum of tennis…..

Tennis has been around for centuries, is globally popular sport, featured every 4 years in the
Olympics, generates over $2bn in event revenues globally with tennis tournaments, has
celebrity athletes (Roger Federer made $70m in 2917), features leagues, supports academic
teams and even features rewarding college scholarships (very important to the many Palo Alto
parents of high school/middle school students).

According to Statistica.com, there were 17.96m players in the US in 2016, having added 60,000
when compared to 2015. Statistics on participation by age group was not available for free, but
can be obtained from Statistica.com for a fee.

Pickleball was invented in 1965, and has been growing fast, particularly in the USA, and
appealing largely to older members of the population. “Pickleball is still primarily popular
among baby boomers, particularly former tennis players who still love court sports” according
to an article by Tennis Industry Magazine.

It was reported by Accordingly to the USAPA (United States of America Pickleball Association),
66% of their players in 2016 where 60 years of age or older, and including many tennis players
who can no longer play tennis. Popularity with younger players, 39 years old or younger, has
remained flat at 6%, according to the USAPA’s 2016 and 2015 fact sheets. According to the
USAPA’s 2016 fact sheet, there were 2.506m pickleball players in 2016, having added 44,000
when compared to 2015.
Tennis is a sport for younger players, pickleball for older players.
As mentioned earlier, 66% of pickleball players are 60 years or older, but not many people 60
years or older are interested in racquet sports for their health and fitness or social activity.
According to the 2017 Report of the Physical Activity Council, less than 7% of the baby boomers,
those born in 1965 or earlier (53 or older) participate in ANY racquet sports.

In contrast, 20% of 37 years old or younger participate in racquet sports, and we already know
from the USAPA’s 2016 fact sheet that popularity in pickleball for those 39 or younger has
remained flat at a very low level of 6%. At the same time as the younger segment will be
playing tennis, they represent a very active group with 61-68% participating in sports actively or
casually.

So, a higher percentage of younger players are (37 or younger) more likely to play racquet
sports, and to select to play tennis. A smaller percentage of older players (53 or older) are likely
to play racquet sports, and more likely to play pickleball. At the same time as the older segment
will be playing pickleball, they represent the least active group with 38% participating in sports
actively or casually.

By consuming tennis facilities to support pickleball, the Palo Alto city leaders will be taking
away resources from the preferred racquet sport for the most active segment of residents, to
satisfy a segment with a smaller player base, that is also less active in athletics.

Tennis is an International Sport, Popular All Over the World. Palo Alto is Becoming
Increasingly International, With Residents Who Play Tennis Moving into Palo Alto.
According to the Population, Housing and Employment Report for the City of Palo Alto,
published in August 29, 2016, the population is continuing to become more diverse, with
traditional resident base retiring and moving out of the area, while immigrants moving in:

                       2000           1010            Change
Caucasian              73%            61%             -12%
Asian                  17%            27%             +10%
Hispanic                5%             6%              +1%
Other                   5%             6%              +1%

These new residents are more likely to be tennis players, and very unlikely to be pickleball
players, based on demographics of the two sports. The demand for tennis facilities is expected
to continue to grow, so reducing the facilities will increase resident wait times for play and
cause significant dissatisfaction and complaints to the municipal leaders.

Avoiding “Pickleball Wars”
All over the USA, municipal leaders are struggling with what to do for pickleball players who
approach them for facilities to support their new sport. Often, municipal leaders are convinced
to share or convert tennis courts for use by pickleball players. Where there is a largely senior
resident population, that option has sometimes served well, where that is not the case, it has
created controversy, particularly where it has attempted to displace entrenched and active
tennis communities.

In the “Pickleball War of 2010” which occurred in Rockford, Illinois in 2010, the municipal
leaders faced fierce and vocal resistance from local tennis players when the Rockford Park
District had initially been convinced by pickleball players to replace two tennis courts with 8
pickleball courts. There was such a backlash from the residents and tennis player community,
that the Park District selected a third court in a more remote park to be converted into 4
pickleball courts as a compromise. Unfortunately, pickleball is not tennis, meaning that its play
results in loud, rapid noise like a hammer hitting an anvil, which annoyed the residents
surrounding the park. Eventually the neighbors filed a court injunction against the park district,
which ended pickleball play at that park.

Communities without the park facilities remote from residences have found more success in
using indoor gymnasiums with hours of play dedicated to pickleball leagues and free play,
where the courts are always lit, equipment can be stored and players shielded from weather
conditions.

Making Palo Alto Future Ready
Palo alto is going to continue to grow in population, according to the 2016 Palo Alto City
Planning Report that forecasts the population of 67,000 in 2016 to grow to 69,000 in 2020 and
perhaps 73,000 in 2030.

The report also projected that the population will be increasing in age, while aging with an
increasing proportion of children and younger people. This is because the fastest growing
employers in and around Palo Alto are in the technology sector, which typically employ single
people, young married couples and couples/single adults with school aged children.

As the reader will quickly realize, this trend indicates that the demand for tennis facilities will
increase, not decrease. With younger players (adults and children) 39 years or younger being
more athletically active, and according to statistics preferring tennis, there will be more
pressure on municipal leaders to add tennis courts, especially with lights for evening play. This
is independently from whether demand for pickleball will rise or fall in Palo Alto.

We feel the Municipal leaders of Palo Alto should be exploring the addition of new, lit tennis
courts, not reducing any Tennis Courts. Pickleball should be supported, if there is demand by
Palo Alto residents, and best served with indoor facilities, where players can have lit courts,
protected from weather effects and without the loud pickleball noise from playing won’t
disturb residents and park visitors.

Look Before You Leap
With resources in short supply, the municipal leaders need to make sure they have heard from
the residents of Palo Alto clearly before making any changes that will disrupt a significant
number of residents currently enjoying the disrupted resources.

“measure twice, to cut once”. If you cannot afford much spending, make sure you are not
wasting your funds, or spending money that will need to be followed with corrective spending.
If you are serving to maximize the benefits of Palo Alto residents, make sure you are being
influenced by Palo Alto residents and not taking actions that cater to those who do not live in
Palo Alto, work or go to school in Palo Alto.

Very few people seem to be aware of the proposal to convert lit tennis courts into dedicated
pickleball courts, and in the short amount of time since its discovery there has already been
vocal resentment about these plans. This could have the opposite effect the city planners had
intended when contemplating this proposed change.
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/12/2018 3:54 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Howard, Adam
Sent:                              Friday, January 12, 2018 3:12 PM
To:                                Marc Naddell; Council, City
Subject:                           RE: Concerns About Plans to Displace Tennis Play in Palo Alto


Good Afternoon Mr. Naddell,
Thank you very much for the information and for your very thoughtful response.

Staff, along with the Parks and Recreation Commission are still evaluating the possibility of converting Mitchell courts 5,
6 and 7 into designated Pickleball courts as well as other options. At this time, no decision has been made. We still
need to have many more conversations with all who would be affected by converting the tennis courts into pickleball
courts. Staff will make a recommendation after considering all of the information and other options. If staff
recommends pursuing this project, staff would return to the Parks and Rec Commission and ultimately City Council for
approval.

I will ensure that you are notified of future public meetings related to this topic, and you are always welcome to come
and share your comments publicly with the Parks and Rec Commission. The next meeting is January 23rd at 7pm in
Council Chambers.

If you would like to discuss further, please feel free to contact me at the number below.

Thank you


              Adam Howard | Community Services Manager | Mitchell Park Community Center
              Community Services Department
              3700 Middlefield Road| Palo Alto, CA 94303
              O: 650.329.2192 F: 650.251.9109
              E-mail: Adam.howard@cityofpaloalto.org
            Please think of the environment before printing this email – Thank you!



From: Marc Naddell [mailto:marc_naddell@yahoo.com]
Sent: Friday, January 12, 2018 3:00 PM
To: Howard, Adam; Council, City
Subject: Re: Concerns About Plans to Displace Tennis Play in Palo Alto

Heres the attachment….


Marc Naddell
(312) 823-2877

“THINK BIG, act small, move Fast!"



                                                              1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/12/2018 3:54 PM
On Jan 12, 2018, at 2:58 PM, Marc Naddell <marc_naddell@yahoo.com> wrote:

Adam and Other City Council Members,

I am a resident in Palo Alto, I work in Palo Alto, and my five member family play tennis in Palo Alto.

My wife and I are in several leagues and all three children play on their school tennis teams.

I just learned about a proposal to replace three tennis courts with pickleball courts, and though on the surface
that sounds like a good idea, I am sharing statistics and logic that will show you that is a bad decision for Palo
Alto residents, for whom I am convinced you are trying maximize benefits with your decisions.




Pickleball Player Facilities Should Not Come at The Expense of Existing Tennis Players.

Tennis players are uniformly not against the growth of pickleball, as a fellow sport, and support the addition of
community resources to develop facilities to support the growth of pickleball, as most tennis players can see
becoming pickleball players when they can no longer compete in Tennis.



That does not mean the Tennis players are willing to lose the few tennis facilities currently open in South Palo
Alto to play tennis under the lights, as they would not like to see basketball players lose basketball courts or
swimmers lose their pools, to make room for a new sport.



Because tennis and racquet ball are both racquet sports, does not mean transfer of resources between the sports
makes any logical sense. The incumbent and very popular sport of Tennis should not need to sacrifice facilities
to make room for the emerging sport of Pickleball, especially since Tennis is continuing to grow and already is
under resourced in Palo Alto, with long wait times for players.



Tennis and Pickleball Are Both Popular Sports:

Tennis is the established, global sport, with nearly 8 times the players, and having added more players even in
2016. To displace tennis for pickleball is to bet against the installed base, the continued growing popularity and
the momentum of tennis…..



Tennis has been around for centuries, is globally popular sport, featured every 4 years in the Olympics,
generates over $2bn in event revenues globally with tennis tournaments, has celebrity athletes (Roger Federer
made $70m in 2917), features leagues, supports academic teams and even features rewarding college
scholarships (very important to the many Palo Alto parents of high school/middle school students).
                                                         2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/12/2018 3:54 PM



According to Statistica.com, there were 17.96m players in the US in 2016, having added 60,000 when
compared to 2015. Statistics on participation by age group was not available for free, but can be obtained from
Statistica.com for a fee.



Pickleball was invented in 1965, and has been growing fast, particularly in the USA, and appealing largely to
older members of the population. “Pickleball is still primarily popular among baby boomers, particularly former
tennis players who still love court sports” according to an article by Tennis Industry Magazine.



It was reported by Accordingly to the USAPA (United States of America Pickleball Association), 66% of their
players in 2016 where 60 years of age or older, and including many tennis players who can no longer play
tennis. Popularity with younger players, 39 years old or younger, has remained flat at 6%, according to the
USAPA’s 2016 and 2015 fact sheets. According to the USAPA’s 2016 fact sheet, there were 2.506m pickleball
players in 2016, having added 44,000 when compared to 2015.



Tennis is a sport for younger players, pickleball for older players.

As mentioned earlier, 66% of pickleball players are 60 years or older, but not many people 60 years or older are
interested in racquet sports for their health and fitness or social activity. According to the 2017 Report of the
Physical Activity Council, less than 7% of the baby boomers, those born in 1965 or earlier (53 or older)
participate in ANY racquet sports.



In contrast, 20% of 37 years old or younger participate in racquet sports, and we already know from the
USAPA’s 2016 fact sheet that popularity in pickleball for those 39 or younger has remained flat at a very low
level of 6%. At the same time as the younger segment will be playing tennis, they represent a very active group
with 61-68% participating in sports actively or casually.



So, a higher percentage of younger players are (37 or younger) more likely to play racquet sports, and to select
to play tennis. A smaller percentage of older players (53 or older) are likely to play racquet sports, and more
likely to play pickleball. At the same time as the older segment will be playing pickleball, they represent the
least active group with 38% participating in sports actively or casually.



By consuming tennis facilities to support pickleball, the Palo Alto city leaders will be taking away resources
from the preferred racquet sport for the most active segment of residents, to satisfy a segment with a smaller
player base, that is also less active in athletics.


                                                        3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/12/2018 3:54 PM
Tennis is an International Sport, Popular All Over the World. Palo Alto is Becoming Increasingly
International, With Residents Who Play Tennis Moving into Palo Alto.

According to the Population, Housing and Employment Report for the City of Palo Alto, published in August
29, 2016, the population is continuing to become more diverse, with traditional resident base retiring and
moving out of the area, while immigrants moving in:



                       2000            1010           Change

Caucasian              73%             61%             -12%

Asian                  17%             27%             +10%

Hispanic                5%              6%             +1%

Other                   5%              6%              +1%



These new residents are more likely to be tennis players, and very unlikely to be pickleball players, based on
demographics of the two sports. The demand for tennis facilities is expected to continue to grow, so reducing
the facilities will increase resident wait times for play and cause significant dissatisfaction and complaints to the
municipal leaders.



Avoiding “Pickleball Wars”

All over the USA, municipal leaders are struggling with what to do for pickleball players who approach them
for facilities to support their new sport. Often, municipal leaders are convinced to share or convert tennis courts
for use by pickleball players. Where there is a largely senior resident population, that option has sometimes
served well, where that is not the case, it has created controversy, particularly where it has attempted to displace
entrenched and active tennis communities.



In the “Pickleball War of 2010” which occurred in Rockford, Illinois in 2010, the municipal leaders faced fierce
and vocal resistance from local tennis players when the Rockford Park District had initially been convinced by
pickleball players to replace two tennis courts with 8 pickleball courts. There was such a backlash from the
residents and tennis player community, that the Park District selected a third court in a more remote park to be
converted into 4 pickleball courts as a compromise. Unfortunately, pickleball is not tennis, meaning that its play
results in loud, rapid noise like a hammer hitting an anvil, which annoyed the residents surrounding the park.
Eventually the neighbors filed a court injunction against the park district, which ended pickleball play at that
park.




                                                          4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/12/2018 3:54 PM
Communities without the park facilities remote from residences have found more success in using indoor
gymnasiums with hours of play dedicated to pickleball leagues and free play, where the courts are always lit,
equipment can be stored and players shielded from weather conditions.

The attachment includes the following study:

Pickleball Player Facilities Should Not Come at The Expense of Existing Tennis Players.

Tennis players are uniformly not against the growth of pickleball, as a fellow sport, and support the addition of
community resources to develop facilities to support the growth of pickleball, as most tennis players can see
becoming pickleball players when they can no longer compete in Tennis.



That does not mean the Tennis players are willing to lose the few tennis facilities currently open in South Palo
Alto to play tennis under the lights, as they would not like to see basketball players lose basketball courts or
swimmers lose their pools, to make room for a new sport.



Because tennis and racquet ball are both racquet sports, does not mean transfer of resources between the sports
makes any logical sense. The incumbent and very popular sport of Tennis should not need to sacrifice facilities
to make room for the emerging sport of Pickleball, especially since Tennis is continuing to grow and already is
under resourced in Palo Alto, with long wait times for players.



Tennis and Pickleball Are Both Popular Sports:

Tennis is the established, global sport, with nearly 8 times the players, and having added more players even in
2016. To displace tennis for pickleball is to bet against the installed base, the continued growing popularity and
the momentum of tennis…..



Tennis has been around for centuries, is globally popular sport, featured every 4 years in the Olympics,
generates over $2bn in event revenues globally with tennis tournaments, has celebrity athletes (Roger Federer
made $70m in 2917), features leagues, supports academic teams and even features rewarding college
scholarships (very important to the many Palo Alto parents of high school/middle school students).



According to Statistica.com, there were 17.96m players in the US in 2016, having added 60,000 when
compared to 2015. Statistics on participation by age group was not available for free, but can be obtained from
Statistica.com for a fee.




                                                         5
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/12/2018 3:54 PM
Pickleball was invented in 1965, and has been growing fast, particularly in the USA, and appealing largely to
older members of the population. “Pickleball is still primarily popular among baby boomers, particularly former
tennis players who still love court sports” according to an article by Tennis Industry Magazine.



It was reported by Accordingly to the USAPA (United States of America Pickleball Association), 66% of their
players in 2016 where 60 years of age or older, and including many tennis players who can no longer play
tennis. Popularity with younger players, 39 years old or younger, has remained flat at 6%, according to the
USAPA’s 2016 and 2015 fact sheets. According to the USAPA’s 2016 fact sheet, there were 2.506m pickleball
players in 2016, having added 44,000 when compared to 2015.

Tennis is a sport for younger players, pickleball for older players.

As mentioned earlier, 66% of pickleball players are 60 years or older, but not many people 60 years or older are
interested in racquet sports for their health and fitness or social activity. According to the 2017 Report of the
Physical Activity Council, less than 7% of the baby boomers, those born in 1965 or earlier (53 or older)
participate in ANY racquet sports.

In contrast, 20% of 37 years old or younger participate in racquet sports, and we already know from the
USAPA’s 2016 fact sheet that popularity in pickleball for those 39 or younger has remained flat at a very low
level of 6%. At the same time as the younger segment will be playing tennis, they represent a very active group
with 61-68% participating in sports actively or casually.

So, a higher percentage of younger players are (37 or younger) more likely to play racquet sports, and to select
to play tennis. A smaller percentage of older players (53 or older) are likely to play racquet sports, and more
likely to play pickleball. At the same time as the older segment will be playing pickleball, they represent the
least active group with 38% participating in sports actively or casually.

By consuming tennis facilities to support pickleball, the Palo Alto city leaders will be taking away resources
from the preferred racquet sport for the most active segment of residents, to satisfy a segment with a smaller
player base, that is also less active in athletics.

Tennis is an International Sport, Popular All Over the World. Palo Alto is Becoming Increasingly
International, With Residents Who Play Tennis Moving into Palo Alto.

According to the Population, Housing and Employment Report for the City of Palo Alto, published in August
29, 2016, the population is continuing to become more diverse, with traditional resident base retiring and
moving out of the area, while immigrants moving in:

              2000           1010            Change

Caucasian      73%            61%             -12%

Asian           17%            27%            +10%

Hispanic         5%             6%              +1%

Other            5%              6%             +1%

                                                        6
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/12/2018 3:54 PM
These new residents are more likely to be tennis players, and very unlikely to be pickleball players, based on
demographics of the two sports. The demand for tennis facilities is expected to continue to grow, so reducing
the facilities will increase resident wait times for play and cause significant dissatisfaction and complaints to the
municipal leaders.

Avoiding “Pickleball Wars”

All over the USA, municipal leaders are struggling with what to do for pickleball players who approach them
for facilities to support their new sport. Often, municipal leaders are approached to share or convert tennis
courts for use by pickleball players. Where there is a largely senior resident population, that option has
sometimes served well, where that is not the case, it has created controversy, particularly where it has attempted
to displace entrenched and active tennis communities.

In the “Pickleball War of 2010” which occurred in Rockford, Illinois in 2010, the municipal leaders faced fierce
and vocal resistance from local tennis players when the Rockford Park District had initially been convinced by
pickleball players to replace two tennis courts with 8 pickleball courts. There was such a backlash from the
residents and tennis player community, that the Park District selected a third court in a more remote park to be
converted into 4 pickleball courts as a compromise. Unfortunately, pickleball is not tennis, meaning that its play
results in loud, rapid noise like a hammer hitting an anvil, which annoyed the residents surrounding the park.
Eventually the neighbors filed a court injunction against the park district, which ended pickleball play at that
park.

Communities without the park facilities remote from residences have found more success in using indoor
gymnasiums with hours of play dedicated to pickleball leagues and free play, where the courts are always lit,
equipment can be stored and players shielded from weather conditions.

Making Palo Alto Future Ready

Palo alto is going to continue to grow in population, according to the 2016 Palo Alto City Planning Report that
forecasts the population of 67,000 in 2016 to grow to 69,000 in 2020 and perhaps 73,000 in 2030.

The report also projected that the population will be increasing in age, while aging with an increasing
proportion of children and younger people. This is because the fastest growing employers in and around Palo
Alto are in the technology sector, which typically employ single people, young married couples and
couples/single adults with school aged children.

As the reader will quickly realize, this trend indicates that the demand for tennis facilities will increase, not
decrease. With younger players (adults and children) 39 years or younger being more athletically active, and
according to statistics preferring tennis, there will be more pressure on municipal leaders to add tennis courts,
especially with lights for evening play. This is independently from whether demand for pickleball will rise or
fall in Palo Alto.

We feel the Municipal leaders of Palo Alto should be exploring the addition of new, lit tennis courts, not
reducing any Tennis Courts. Pickleball should be supported, if there is demand by Palo Alto residents, and best
served with indoor facilities, where players can have lit courts, protected from weather effects and without the
loud pickleball noise from playing won’t disturb residents and park visitors.

Look Before You Leap


                                                          7
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/12/2018 3:54 PM
With resources in short supply, the municipal leaders need to make sure they have heard from the residents of
Palo Alto clearly before making any changes that will disrupt a significant number of residents currently
enjoying the disrupted resources.

“measure twice, to cut once”. If you cannot afford much spending, make sure you are not wasting your funds, or
spending money that will need to be followed with corrective spending. If you are serving to maximize the
benefits of Palo Alto residents, make sure you are being influenced by Palo Alto residents and not taking
actions that cater to those who do not live in Palo Alto, work or go to school in Palo Alto.

Very few people seem to be aware of the proposal to convert lit tennis courts into dedicated pickleball courts,
and in the short amount of time since its discovery there has already been vocal resentment about these plans.
This could have the opposite effect the city planners had intended when contemplating this proposed change.


Marc Naddell
(312) 823-2877

“THINK BIG, act small, move Fast!"




                                                        8
Pickleball Player Facilities Should Not Come at The Expense of Existing Tennis Players.
Tennis players are uniformly not against the growth of pickleball, as a fellow sport, and support
the addition of community resources to develop facilities to support the growth of pickleball, as
most tennis players can see becoming pickleball players when they can no longer compete in
Tennis.

That does not mean the Tennis players are willing to lose the few tennis facilities currently open
in South Palo Alto to play tennis under the lights, as they would not like to see basketball
players lose basketball courts or swimmers lose their pools, to make room for a new sport.

Because tennis and racquet ball are both racquet sports, does not mean transfer of resources
between the sports makes any logical sense. The incumbent and very popular sport of Tennis
should not need to sacrifice facilities to make room for the emerging sport of Pickleball,
especially since Tennis is continuing to grow and already is under resourced in Palo Alto, with
long wait times for players.

Tennis and Pickleball Are Both Popular Sports:
Tennis is the established, global sport, with nearly 8 times the players, and having added more
players even in 2016. To displace tennis for pickleball is to bet against the installed base, the
continued growing popularity and the momentum of tennis…..

Tennis has been around for centuries, is globally popular sport, featured every 4 years in the
Olympics, generates over $2bn in event revenues globally with tennis tournaments, has
celebrity athletes (Roger Federer made $70m in 2917), features leagues, supports academic
teams and even features rewarding college scholarships (very important to the many Palo Alto
parents of high school/middle school students).

According to Statistica.com, there were 17.96m players in the US in 2016, having added 60,000
when compared to 2015. Statistics on participation by age group was not available for free, but
can be obtained from Statistica.com for a fee.

Pickleball was invented in 1965, and has been growing fast, particularly in the USA, and
appealing largely to older members of the population. “Pickleball is still primarily popular
among baby boomers, particularly former tennis players who still love court sports” according
to an article by Tennis Industry Magazine.

It was reported by Accordingly to the USAPA (United States of America Pickleball Association),
66% of their players in 2016 where 60 years of age or older, and including many tennis players
who can no longer play tennis. Popularity with younger players, 39 years old or younger, has
remained flat at 6%, according to the USAPA’s 2016 and 2015 fact sheets. According to the
USAPA’s 2016 fact sheet, there were 2.506m pickleball players in 2016, having added 44,000
when compared to 2015.
Tennis is a sport for younger players, pickleball for older players.
As mentioned earlier, 66% of pickleball players are 60 years or older, but not many people 60
years or older are interested in racquet sports for their health and fitness or social activity.
According to the 2017 Report of the Physical Activity Council, less than 7% of the baby boomers,
those born in 1965 or earlier (53 or older) participate in ANY racquet sports.

In contrast, 20% of 37 years old or younger participate in racquet sports, and we already know
from the USAPA’s 2016 fact sheet that popularity in pickleball for those 39 or younger has
remained flat at a very low level of 6%. At the same time as the younger segment will be
playing tennis, they represent a very active group with 61-68% participating in sports actively or
casually.

So, a higher percentage of younger players are (37 or younger) more likely to play racquet
sports, and to select to play tennis. A smaller percentage of older players (53 or older) are likely
to play racquet sports, and more likely to play pickleball. At the same time as the older segment
will be playing pickleball, they represent the least active group with 38% participating in sports
actively or casually.

By consuming tennis facilities to support pickleball, the Palo Alto city leaders will be taking
away resources from the preferred racquet sport for the most active segment of residents, to
satisfy a segment with a smaller player base, that is also less active in athletics.

Tennis is an International Sport, Popular All Over the World. Palo Alto is Becoming
Increasingly International, With Residents Who Play Tennis Moving into Palo Alto.
According to the Population, Housing and Employment Report for the City of Palo Alto,
published in August 29, 2016, the population is continuing to become more diverse, with
traditional resident base retiring and moving out of the area, while immigrants moving in:

                       2000           1010            Change
Caucasian              73%            61%             -12%
Asian                  17%            27%             +10%
Hispanic                5%             6%              +1%
Other                   5%             6%              +1%

These new residents are more likely to be tennis players, and very unlikely to be pickleball
players, based on demographics of the two sports. The demand for tennis facilities is expected
to continue to grow, so reducing the facilities will increase resident wait times for play and
cause significant dissatisfaction and complaints to the municipal leaders.

Avoiding “Pickleball Wars”
All over the USA, municipal leaders are struggling with what to do for pickleball players who
approach them for facilities to support their new sport. Often, municipal leaders are convinced
to share or convert tennis courts for use by pickleball players. Where there is a largely senior
resident population, that option has sometimes served well, where that is not the case, it has
created controversy, particularly where it has attempted to displace entrenched and active
tennis communities.

In the “Pickleball War of 2010” which occurred in Rockford, Illinois in 2010, the municipal
leaders faced fierce and vocal resistance from local tennis players when the Rockford Park
District had initially been convinced by pickleball players to replace two tennis courts with 8
pickleball courts. There was such a backlash from the residents and tennis player community,
that the Park District selected a third court in a more remote park to be converted into 4
pickleball courts as a compromise. Unfortunately, pickleball is not tennis, meaning that its play
results in loud, rapid noise like a hammer hitting an anvil, which annoyed the residents
surrounding the park. Eventually the neighbors filed a court injunction against the park district,
which ended pickleball play at that park.

Communities without the park facilities remote from residences have found more success in
using indoor gymnasiums with hours of play dedicated to pickleball leagues and free play,
where the courts are always lit, equipment can be stored and players shielded from weather
conditions.

Making Palo Alto Future Ready
Palo alto is going to continue to grow in population, according to the 2016 Palo Alto City
Planning Report that forecasts the population of 67,000 in 2016 to grow to 69,000 in 2020 and
perhaps 73,000 in 2030.

The report also projected that the population will be increasing in age, while aging with an
increasing proportion of children and younger people. This is because the fastest growing
employers in and around Palo Alto are in the technology sector, which typically employ single
people, young married couples and couples/single adults with school aged children.

As the reader will quickly realize, this trend indicates that the demand for tennis facilities will
increase, not decrease. With younger players (adults and children) 39 years or younger being
more athletically active, and according to statistics preferring tennis, there will be more
pressure on municipal leaders to add tennis courts, especially with lights for evening play. This
is independently from whether demand for pickleball will rise or fall in Palo Alto.

We feel the Municipal leaders of Palo Alto should be exploring the addition of new, lit tennis
courts, not reducing any Tennis Courts. Pickleball should be supported, if there is demand by
Palo Alto residents, and best served with indoor facilities, where players can have lit courts,
protected from weather effects and without the loud pickleball noise from playing won’t
disturb residents and park visitors.

Look Before You Leap
With resources in short supply, the municipal leaders need to make sure they have heard from
the residents of Palo Alto clearly before making any changes that will disrupt a significant
number of residents currently enjoying the disrupted resources.

“measure twice, to cut once”. If you cannot afford much spending, make sure you are not
wasting your funds, or spending money that will need to be followed with corrective spending.
If you are serving to maximize the benefits of Palo Alto residents, make sure you are being
influenced by Palo Alto residents and not taking actions that cater to those who do not live in
Palo Alto, work or go to school in Palo Alto.

Very few people seem to be aware of the proposal to convert lit tennis courts into dedicated
pickleball courts, and in the short amount of time since its discovery there has already been
vocal resentment about these plans. This could have the opposite effect the city planners had
intended when contemplating this proposed change.
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/16/2018 5:24 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Transportation
Sent:                             Tuesday, January 16, 2018 2:17 PM
To:                               Stan Hutchings; Council, City
Cc:                               Palo Alto Daily; PALO ALTO WEEKLY-Letters to the Editor; Grand Boulevard Initiative
Subject:                          RE: El Camino Real vision for "City seeks input on 'Grand Boulevard' project"


Dear Mr. Hutchings,

We apologize for the inconveniences caused by our online interactive survey. Thank you for sending your detailed
suggestions for improving the performance and safety of El Camino Real. Your suggestions have been forwarded to the
relevant department staff for review.

Thank you.

Regards,

Madina Klicheva | Admin Associate
City of Palo Alto | Planning & Community Environment Dept
250 Hamilton Ave, 5th floor, Palo Alto, CA 94301
(650) 329-2144 | madina.klicheva@cityofpaloalto.org

From: Stan Hutchings [mailto:stan.hutchings@gmail.com]
Sent: Friday, January 12, 2018 10:46 PM
To: Council, City
Cc: Palo Alto Daily; PALO ALTO WEEKLY-Letters to the Editor; Transportation
Subject: El Camino Real vision for "City seeks input on 'Grand Boulevard' project"

The site given in the Palo Alto Online (https://www.paloaltoonline.com/news/2018/01/12/city-seeks-input-on-
grand-boulevard-project) article for making comments (http://gis.fehrandpeers.com/GBIPaloAlto/) was
inadequate. It was diffficult and confusing to use, and there was not enough space allowed for longer comments.
There is no reason to expect detailed suggestions cures for El Camino Real's (ECR) woes to be useful. Everyone
who drives or walks on ECR knows it has a multitude of problems. They SHOULD have been solved or
mitigated by the City's traffic engineers. They were not. I have made suggestions previously of ways to improve
ECR. I will repeat them here. Please forward them to the appropriate City officials for presentation at the three
community meetings on re-envisioning the Palo Alto section of the El Camino Real Grand Boulevard
Initiative.


El Camino Real vision
I saw an actual working solution in, of all places, Tahiti. Apparently "paradise" has developed serious commute
traffic. In order to keep the
 traffic
flow moving, they have

disallowed left turns by constructing a barrier down the center of the road and eliminated most stop lights.
Every 1/2 to 3/4 miles there is a multi-lane traffic circle where vehicles can reverse direction
, go back the way they came,
                                                            1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/16/2018 5:24 PM
and make a RIGHT turn where desired. (Note that well-designed traffic circles are common in Europe, and
significantly reduce traffic back-ups

- There is no need for a light at well-designed circles
). Drivers entering the road
from intersections
can only make a right turn; they
drive
 to a circle if they want to go the other direction. It's like a mini-freeway. Just eliminating left turns speeds
up
traffic, regaining the 20-30 seconds for the left turn arrow and another several minutes for cross traffic and
pedestrians
  before traffic can resume
. It has the benefit of
  keeping traffic
mov
ing
;
not stop
p
ing
-wait
ing
for cross traffic and left turns
, and finally resuming travel, just to be stopped at the next light
.
The excess pollution caused by frequent stopping and resuming is eliminated.
With 3 lanes, ECR could have dedicated 2 lane through traffic, 1 lane bus and right turn. I posit that the speed
up would be greater than the flawed plan
  previously
proposed by the VTA to modify ECR. I'd like to see computer simulations of both proposals under expected
future traffic, and
  also
the effect on parallel routes (Alma, Middlefield, Foothill Expy). Bike routes should be developed on parallel
side streets
, NOT on ECR
.
The Bryant Bike Boulevard is an example of what can be done.
There are several logical locations for circles: Stanford Shopping center, Embarcadero, Oregon/Page Mill,
Charleston, San Antonio. The extra gas to go the extra distance to make a left turn would be more than
compensated by being able to drive non-stop. There should be numerous pedestrian and bike crossings
ELEVATED above ECR like the crossings over Woodside (near Middlefield), or 101 (near Oregon Expy), or
the 4-way style seen in Las Vegas.
 Pedestrian crossings at intersections would stop only the vehicles in the right lane, and pedestrians and bikes
would have to go to an elevated crossing to cross ECR.


I also expect a fleet of
electric
 autonomous vehicles (instead of
                                                         2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/16/2018 5:24 PM
diesel
buses) t
o
transport people from
'
portal to portal
'
anywhere in the Bay Area (instead of station/bus stop to station/bus stop), eliminating the "first and last mile"
issue.
  I read that General Motors and others are developing fleets of such vehicles. Instead of buses and bus lanes,
plan for the future, it's only a year away. Work actively with the State to allow an autonomous fleet of vehicles
to replace buses, taxis, Uber and Lyft. With suitable planning with vehicle manufacturers and local companies,
much private automobile traffic can be eliminated by using Caltrain as a feeder, and the autonomous fleet for
the last mile. As an added incentive, parking private vehicles can be made very expensive, with the fees used to
subsidize "first and last mile" expenses.

Regards,
Stan Hutchings




                                                        3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/17/2018 1:09 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Howard, Adam
Sent:                              Tuesday, January 16, 2018 9:47 AM
To:                                Changhoon Kim; Council, City
Subject:                           RE: opposing to the tennis court repurpose plan


Thank you for your email and for passing along your comments regarding the use of tennis courts at Mitchell Park for
pickleball.

Staff, along with the Parks and Recreation Commission are still evaluating the possibility of converting Mitchell courts 5,
6 and 7 into designated Pickleball courts. At this time, no decision has been made. We still need to have more
conversations with all who would be affected by converting the tennis courts into pickleball courts and are looking at
other ideas. Staff will make a recommendation after considering all of the information. If staff recommends pursuing
the project, staff would return to the Parks and Rec Commission and ultimately City Council for approval.

I will ensure that you are notified of future public meetings related to this topic, and you are always welcome to come
and share your comments publicly at the monthly Parks and Rec Commission.

If you would like to discuss further, please feel free to contact me at the number below.

Thank you



              Adam Howard | Community Services Manager | Mitchell Park Community Center
              Community Services Department
              3700 Middlefield Road| Palo Alto, CA 94303
              O: 650.329.2192 F: 650.251.9109
              E-mail: Adam.howard@cityofpaloalto.org
            Please think of the environment before printing this email – Thank you!


From: Changhoon Kim [mailto:kim.changhoon@gmail.com]
Sent: Sunday, January 14, 2018 12:19 PM
To: Howard, Adam; Council, City
Subject: opposing to the tennis court repurpose plan

To whom it may concern:

I'm Changhoon Kim, who lives at 629 Ashton Ave, 94306. My phone number is 201-336-2414.

As a Palo Alto resident, I strongly oppose to the plan of repurposing the Mitchell Park tennis courts for Pickle
Ball Courts. There are several reasons for this:

- There's already a significant shortage of tennis courts in Palo Alto especially during the peak hours (weekday
nights and weekends).


                                                              1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/17/2018 1:09 PM
- There are dedicated pickle ball courts in the park, and yet the pickle-ball community has been avoiding using
those courts.

- The vast majority of the pickle ball community is non Palo Alto residents. I don't see why Palo Alto has to
accommodate for the convenience of a small special-interest community in whole Bay Area using the local tax.

In addition to opposing the repurpose plan, I actually think we should take a more strict approach toward the
non-legitimate and dangerous use of the tennis courts by the pickle-ball players. Hence I suggest we let them
stop appropriating the tennis courts entirely for the following reasons:

- Many people in the pickle ball community are not showing good citizenship. They eat at the courts, make lots
of noise (clapping, chatting, shouting, commenting, etc.) during the game, reserve courts for others who're not
at the courts, squat on courts for several hours or even a whole day. All these are strict no-no's among the tennis
players, and there're good reasons why tennis players have developed this implicit guidelines. Yet, several
pickle ball players -- probably because many of them do not have experience in playing tennis properly --
completely ignore these rules.

- They're vastly underestimating the physical risks associated with playing two very different types of sports in
the same court at the same time. While seemingly similar, pickle ball and tennis are very different in terms of
the level of activity and engagement. Pickle ball is a lot more casual, communal, static, and less active, whereas
tennis (especially single games between advanced players) is highly active, engaging, and both mentally and
physically challenging. Hence playing tennis requires a lot more safe bumper space in between the neighboring
courts. Physical contacts between tennis players can very easily lead to serious injuries. Pickle ball players
rarely understand such issues and keep crouching into the bumper space between the courts. They even set their
makeshift nets in the bumper space when sharing the courts with tennis players. Should a tennis player hits and
falls by the net during their play, very serious injuries can happen.

- Most of all, pickle players currently do not use their dedicated courts. Almost always during weekdays their
dedicated courts are unused by them, and they come directly to the tennis courts. I'm baffled by such
irresponsible and disrespectful behavior.

-- Chang




                                                         2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/17/2018 1:09 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                                     Howard, Adam
Sent:                                     Tuesday, January 16, 2018 9:48 AM
To:                                       Ashok Kp; Council, City
Subject:                                  RE: The tennis courts at Mitchell Park


Thank you for your email and for passing along your comments regarding the use of tennis courts at Mitchell Park for
pickleball.

Staff, along with the Parks and Recreation Commission are still evaluating the possibility of converting Mitchell courts 5,
6 and 7 into designated Pickleball courts. At this time, no decision has been made. We still need to have more
conversations with all who would be affected by converting the tennis courts into pickleball courts and are looking at
other ideas. Staff will make a recommendation after considering all of the information. If staff recommends pursuing
the project, staff would return to the Parks and Rec Commission and ultimately City Council for approval.

I will ensure that you are notified of future public meetings related to this topic, and you are always welcome to come
and share your comments publicly at the monthly Parks and Rec Commission.

If you would like to discuss further, please feel free to contact me at the number below.

Thank you



                 Adam Howard | Community Services Manager | Mitchell Park Community Center
                 Community Services Department
                 3700 Middlefield Road| Palo Alto, CA 94303
                 O: 650.329.2192 F: 650.251.9109
                 E-mail: Adam.howard@cityofpaloalto.org
               Please think of the environment before printing this email – Thank you!


From: Ashok Kp [mailto:kpashok2003@gmail.com]
Sent: Sunday, January 14, 2018 3:07 PM
To: Howard, Adam; Council, City
Subject: The tennis courts at Mitchell Park

Hi Adam and the City Council,

I am a resident of Palo Alto. I play tennis at the Mitchell Park Tennis Courts on a regular basis. I hear that there
is a proposal to convert three tennis courts permanently to pickleball courts.

When I play tennis in the evenings only 5 of the 7 tennis courts are available as two courts have tennis pros coaching kids. All the remaining
courts are usually taken and I often have to wait for courts. Hence permanently converting the tennis courts to pickleball courts would
exacerbate the problem.

I suggest leaving the 3 tennis courts as is.



                                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/17/2018 1:09 PM
There are 2 pickle ball courts in the park already. The pickle ball players now convert the 3 tennis courts to pickle ball courts on Tuesday
evenings and during the day Saturday. I think it makes sense for this arrangement to continue.

Regards,
Ashok




                                                                       2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/16/2018 9:27 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Eric Nordman <eric.nordman12@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Sunday, January 14, 2018 8:42 PM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        Ross Road Bicycle Boulevard


Re: Ross Road Bicycle Boulevard




Dear City Council Member:




I read all the 354 replies on Ross Road on Nextdoor Palo Alto. There was a lot of angst about the bicycle
boulevard project, concern about the cost, as well as some writers who said they already see improvements in
driver speed.



Part of the angst was due to ignorance about how bicyclist should ride on streets like Ross. Many drivers
expected bicyclists to ride on the edge of the road, out of their lane. However, parking is permitted on Ross. If
you ride near the curb you have to swing out into “their” lane to pass parked cars. This is not a safe way to
ride especially for kids. On Bryant people typically ride in a straight line and cars pass the same way they
would for cars.




To be effective as a bicycle boulevard, free flow bicycle traffic is enabled by reducing stops. In order to keep
bicycle boulevards safe and attractive, motor vehicle traffic speeds need to be controlled. The features being
implemented were shown to be effective in other communities. They make it uncomfortable for drivers to drive
fast which passively (not by enforcement) reduces speeds.




                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/16/2018 9:27 AM
                                                            The Bryant Bicycle Boulevard (now the Ellen Fletcher
                                                            Bicycle Boulevard) was the first bike boulevard in the
                                                            US in 1982. It now carries about 1000-1500 bicyclist
                                                            each workday. It provides an efficient and low stress
                                                            bicycle route for commuters, kids riding to school and
                                                            people running errands. It’s been very successful and
                                                            has been copied in many other cities.




                                                            Creating a network of Bicycle Boulevards can extend
                                                            the success of Bryant to the entire city. As car traffic
                                                            and parking are major problems in Palo Alto, everyone
                                                            wins if more people bicycle.



Permeable barriers, as used on Bryant and Park may not be ideal if there are not many alternative streets for
drivers. However, especially for sections of the city built on the grid system, permeable barriers can very
effectively reduce the chance the street will become the preferred Waze route.




I recently learned that city staff was instructed by the City Council to not use permeable barriers such as those
used successfully on Bryant. Removing this restriction is likely to reduce the cost on future bike boulevards.




The features on Ross Road are only partially implemented and are missing critical things like striping. People
should not try to judge how well they will work until they are completed. While change is difficult, building a
network of Bike Boulevards will be a great investment for Palo Alto.




Sincerely,

Eric S Nordman




                                                        2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/12/2018 9:37 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Jane Harris <janeharris230@gmail.com>
Sent:                              Thursday, January 11, 2018 11:05 AM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           SOuthgate parking permit - proposal to provide additional permits for businesses


I was unfortunately not able to attend meetings on the proposal to provide additional southgate parking permits to
neighboring businesses. I live on sequoia ave. For those of you who have come to Southgate, I'm sure you'll agree that
our narrow roads pose a serious safety concern for pedestrians, cars, and residents requiring emergency services. I once
had to have a fire truck come to our house and the driver expressed those very concerns about navigating our narrow
and congested streets. We all know that time is of the essence, even minutes, for those situations.
Hence, I seriously hope you'll deny any additional business parking permits. In fact, I was disappointed to hear that some
have already been granted. I imagine the city will put safety first and of course the city does not want additional liability
for exacerbating an unsafe situation.
Thanks for your ongoing support and consideration Jane harris
230 Sequoia ave.

Sent from my iPad




                                                              1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/16/2018 9:29 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Susan Stansbury <stansburysusan@gmail.com>
Sent:                         Saturday, January 13, 2018 10:49 AM
To:                           Council, City
Subject:                      Thank you and follow up re: divestment



Dear Honorable Mayor Kniss and City Council members,

Thank you for your unanimous vote on Dec. 11, 2017 to direct staff to prepare for discussion a plan to
divest from fossil fuels in early 2018. This is an important first step to align our city's environmental
and social equity goals with smart financial investing.

The financial landscape is quickly changing. As reported in The Guardian, and many other news
outlets on Nov. 16, 2017,

"The Norwegian central bank, which runs the country’s sovereign wealth fund – the world’s biggest –
has told its government it should dump its shares in oil and gas companies, in a move that could have
significant consequences for the sector.

"Norges Bank, which manages Norway’s $1tn fund, said ministers should take the step to
avoid the fund’s value being hit by a permanent fall in the oil price...The return on oil and gas
stocks has been significantly lower than in the broad equity market in periods of falling oil prices,” the
bank explained in a statement. You can read the whole article here.

And, just this week, New York City announced plans to divest.

We look forward to working with the City of Palo Alto to take positive and meaningful steps in
divesting our city's resources from fossil fuels in 2018.

Thanks again for your commitment to this effort.

--
Susan Stansbury
741 Josina Ave. Palo Alto
(650) 353-1994




                                                     1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/16/2018 9:14 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Palo Alto Free Press <paloaltofreepress@gmail.com>
Sent:                             Monday, January 15, 2018 5:22 AM
To:                               cbolanos@co.sanmateo.ca.us; gkirby@redwoodcity.org; jcorral@redwoodcity.org;
                                  bos@smcgov.org; Council, City; dprice@padailypost.com; rcpd@redwoodcity.org;
                                  citycouncil@menlopark.org; pacquilar@redwoodcity.org; jbeiers@smcgov.org;
                                  swagstaffe@smcgov.org; myraw@smcba.org; jgreen@dailynewsgroup.com;
                                  RJonsen@menlopark.org; dcbertini@menlopark.org; Watson, Ron;
                                  vramirez@redwoodcity.org; timothygray@sbcglobal.net;
                                  michael.gennaco@oirgroup.com; stevendlee@alumni.duke.edu; Kilpatrick, Brad; Lee,
                                  Craig; Kan, Michael; Perron, Zachary; Stump, Molly; rjonson@cityofpaloalto.org;
                                  robert.jonson@cityofpaloalto.org; HRC; cindy.chavez@bos.sccgov.org; James Aram;
                                  Reifschneider, James; Keene, James; Kniss, Liz (external); Lum, Patty;
                                  dangel@da.sccgov.org; DOkonkwo@da.sccgov.org; jrosen@da.sccgov.org; Jay
                                  Boyarsky; swebby@da.sccgov.org; Keith, Claudia; sdremann@paweekly.com; Scharff,
                                  Greg; gsheyner@paweekly.com; bwelch@dao.sccgov.org; bjohnson@paweekly.com;
                                  bjohnson@embarcaderomediagroup.com; csumida@da.sccgov.org
Subject:                          The Minority Report - [Not staring Tom Cruz] Palo Alto Police Department


Let Martin Luther King Day shine in the hearts of every Palo Alto Police Department Officer....




Sent from my iPad

                                                            1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/12/2018 9:37 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Sea <paloaltolife@gmail.com>
Sent:                         Thursday, January 11, 2018 12:17 PM
To:                           Council, City; cityofpaloalto@service.govdelivery.com; ctraboard@googlegroups.com;
                              fbalin@gmail.com; Cook, James F.; jenssailor@yahoo.com; samidh@samidh.com;
                              schmitte@pacbell.net; bjohnson@paweekly.com; jdong@paweekly.com;
                              60m@cbsnews.com; bwarchangelmichael@gmail.com; vinnyraylarkin@yahoo.com;
                              Holman, Karen; Greg Schmid (external); Supervisor Simitian; letters@paweekly.com;
                              wsj.ltrs@wsj.com; letters@nytimes.com
Subject:                      Tweet by Sea-Seelam Reddy on Twitter




                                                               Sea-Seelam Reddy (@SealamReddy)

 1/11/18, 12:01
 We collectively failed. College Terrace Market is closed. 43 parking spaces new building nice employees
 didn’t matter. Not many people came as prices were steeper than Segona’s Del Martinis Cost of advertising.
 Some Con artists. Loss off 20+ Jobs; $$$ lost. Duped. Never repeat. pic.twitter.com/nIG8cVkKXo


Download the Twitter app


Sent from my iPhone




                                                      1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/16/2018 9:28 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com>
Sent:                         Sunday, January 14, 2018 11:08 AM
To:                           stb_discussion@googlegroups.com; wilpf.peninsula.paloalto@gmail.com;
                              chuckjagoda1@gmail.com
Subject:                      When Mercy Collides With the Law



https://mobile.nytimes.com/2018/01/10/opinion/homeless-winter-shelters-
law.html?referer=https://www.google.com/

Shared via the Google app


Sent from my iPhone




                                                     1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/16/2018 9:07 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                    Victoria Thorp <victoriathorp@gmail.com>
Sent:                                    Monday, January 15, 2018 7:37 AM
To:                                      Council, City
Subject:                                 Why I support Castilleja's Expansion Plan


Ladies and Gentleman of the City Council,

I wanted to send a quick note to express my support for Castilleja's expansion plans. I fully support Castilleja's mission to educate and
empower young women. Castilleja is the only secular high school for girls in the Bay Area, and it's high school is tiny in comparison to the
demand and need for all-girls education.

I have two daughters who went to Addison for elementary school and who are now 8th and 10th graders at Castilleja. My girls ride their
bikes every day, and the school has been working for the past three years to reduce traffic around the school, and provides free shuttle buses
from multiple Bay Area towns and Caltrain that are widely used by parents.

Traffic around Palo Alto and Castilleja is an issue, but cars driving to Paly and Stanford far outnumber the cars that go to and from Castilleja.
In fact, it would be interesting to measure the number of Paly students- many of whom live quite close to school- who drive to Paly every
day. Many park at Town and Country, these cars are filing up Embarcadero in the morning and greatly contributing to the backup on the
western route. A small number of additional girls attending Castilleja is insignificant compared to the growing number of Paly kids who drive
every day, along with the ever growing number of Stanford employees who use Palo Alto's main arteries- namely Embarcadero - to get to
work.

I believe that Castilleja has become a symbol of a much larger issue that needs regional resolution.
I am writing to support the school's expansion plans and hope you will listen to voices beyond the vocal neighbors when it comes to making
your decision.

Respectfully,

Victoria

--
Victoria Thorp
victoriathorp@gmail.com
415-378-8687




                                                                        1
Please Contact the Clerk’s Office
    to View Additional Pages,
Attachments, or Images Related
        to this Document
To: Palo Alto City Council
f!rom: Jerry Underdal
Re: College Terrace market site                   January 8, 2018

Dear Council Members,

I encourage the council and the planning department to explore the option of engaging a consultant with relevant
experience to explore the feasibility of putting an Asian market in at the defunct College Market site. All attempts so
far, with the exception of Grocery Outlet, to put medium sized grocery stores into neighborhoods grocery have been
similar in concept and have been failures. Most Palo Altans have found that existing choices meet their needs.

I submit that an option that may have a chance of success is a well-run Asian market that fills basic needs of the
neighborhood while offering a local grocery option for customers looking for Asian groceries and common household
items. Palo Alto's population is about a third Asian already and that proportion is likely to keep rising. There are no
Asian markets in Palo Alto. It's worth engaging grocery consultants with experience marketing Asia-related goods on
the Peninsula do a market study to determine the odds of success. If they conclude that even an Asian (South Asian,
East Asian or a combination) grocery isn't feasible, the city should give up on putting a grocery store in that space.


I recommend that city decision makers read a book published by UC Press in 2017 titled Trespassers?: Asian
Americans and the Battle for Suburbia, authored by Willow S. Lung-Amaml, Assistant Professor in the Urban Stuidies
and Planning Program at the Univ. of MD, College Park. It draws on the experience of Fremont, across the bay, as it
transitioned from a "sleepy rural town" to one of America 's largest Asian American-majority cities. The book is not
long, only about 200 pages. But it contains many observations that I believe to be relevant to Palo Alto, a city
undergoing a similar, if not as thorough, demographic transformation.



FROM THE BACK JACKET

"Beyond the gilded gates of Google, little has been written about the uburban comm uni tie of
Silicon Valley. Over the past several decades, the region' booming tech economy spurred rapid
population growth, increased racial diversity, and prompted an influx of immigration, especially
among highly skilled and educated migrants from China, Taiwan, and India. At the same time, the
re ponse to these newcomers among long-time neighbors and city officials revealed complex
attitudes in even the most well-heeled and diverse communities.

Trespassers? takes an intimate look at the everyday life and politics inside Silicon Valley against a
backdrop of these dramatic demographic shifts. At the broadest level, it raises questions about the
rights of diverse populations to their own piece of the suburban American Dream. It follows one
community over several decades as it transforms from a sleepy rural town to a global gateway and
one of the nation's largest Asian American-majority cities. There, it highlights the passionate efforts
of Asian Americans to make Silicon Valley their home by investing in local schools, neighborhoods,
and shopping centers. It also provides a textured tale of the tensions that emerge over this suburb's
changing environment. With vivid storytelling, Trespassers? uncovers suburbia as an increasingly
important place for immigrants and minorities to register their claims for equality and inclusion."

Thank you lo~



J.'12 1
534 Georgia Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94306


                                                                                    ' -,
                                                                                      \ i i'Z Wd L\ M"r 8\

                                                                                      J~~!~fi~-Io\1~
                                    .
                              '\.




TRESPAS.SERS-?
   ..   i   1
            :.   ..
                      h
                          .

                          '
