            DOCUMENTS IN THIS PACKET INCLUDE:


                LETTERS FROM CITIZENS TO THE
                   MAYOR OR CITY COUNCIL


    RESPONSES FROM STAFF TO LETTERS FROM CITIZENS


        ITEMS FROM MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS


      ITEMS FROM OTHER COMMITTEES AND AGENCIES


ITEMS FROM CITY, COUNTY, STATE, AND REGIONAL AGENCIES




       Prepared for:           9/17/2018
       Document dates: 8/29/2018 – 9/5/2018

                                Set 1
 Note: Documents for every category may not have been received for packet
                      reproduction in a given week.




                                                                      701-32
                                                                                       COUNCIL MEETING
                                                                                                09/10/2018             12
                                                                                            Received Before Meeting
Carnahan, David
                                                                                        ✔




From:                Angelina Bena <angelinabena@gmail.com>
Sent:                Friday, August 31, 2018 2:28 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Ordinance for Relocation Assistance for No-Fault Evictions


Dear Palo Alto City Council Members,

My parents are honorable landlords. They take good care of their property, are kind and responsive to tenants, and get
below‐market rent because they don't feel it is right for them to take advantage of others. They understand that it is a
privilege to own property in Palo Alto (one that they could never do if they tried to buy in the current market) and want
others to raise their families in a community that positively influenced their own.

My parents would be forced to dramatically increase future rent on their rentals if you extend the ordinance to include
smaller rental developments. Even though my father has never evicted a tenant from his properties, he would be forced
to protect himself if he needed to do so. This would mean he would need to increase the rent on future tenants. Other
landlords will have to do the same thing. All of his current tenants would not be able to afford that increase ‐ thus
pricing out a population that currently resides in Palo Alto.

I understand that no‐fault evictions can be difficult. But as long as we have high demand for housing and low supply ‐
tenants will have a difficult time. Please look to the housing crisis with an eye focused on sustainability. I fear that the
extension of this ordinance will in fact make things worse...causing even me to leave the town that has been my home
for 30 years.

Many Thanks,

Angelina Bena Michael
College Terrace Resident




                                                              1
Carnahan, David

From:                JoAn Chace <joanechace@yahoo.com>
Sent:                Saturday, September 1, 2018 10:57 AM
To:                  William M. Chace
Cc:                  Council, City
Subject:             Relocation assistance


To City Council Members Liz Kniss, Greg Tanaka, and Greg Scharff:

May I repeat to you this lead paragraph in The Palo Alto Weekly editorial for August 31?

"A five‐person majority of the Palo City Council early Tuesday was ready to vote for a staff proposal to require the
owners of the city’s largest apartment complexes to pay relocation assistance to any tenant they evict without cause.”

Why did you three interrupt this unremarkably normal process? What the staff recommended in assistance is in line
with the policy of other cities. The dollar amounts of assistance are reasonable. Why did you step in to overrule the
staff report and block the will of the majority?

The answer cannot be that you had a better plan for the citizens who vote for you and whom you represent. You three
forced an option that may sound reasonable‐‐to help only those whose incomes are below the county’s median income
level—but it is a policy that in practice will help very few of your fellow citizens. To quote the Weekly again, the policy
which you forced on the majority while at the same time ignoring the staff “is likely to result in very few payments being
made, since rents are so high in Palo Alto that most tenants earning less than the county’s median income level can't
afford to live here in the first place.”

Why did you not follow the staff report, or the practice of Santa Monica, or the will of the council majority? This is a
time when all around you people recognize that the expense of housing here harms individuals, the city (long commutes
for city workers), and our innate sense of fairness.

We are puzzled by your action and embarrassed to see members of our council perform an action that appears to us as
downright shameful: you used a bad procedure in the council to impose a bad policy on the city. And for what?




                                                             1
Carnahan, David

From:                Peter Vilkin <vilkin.peter@att.net>
Sent:                Friday, August 31, 2018 5:37 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Arastradero-Charleston road changes


Dear Mayor and Council Members,

The proposed road alterations on Arastradero/Charleston are utterly without value.
Have you all personally visited the various sites and seen what is intended? They propose to narrow the entrance of all
side streets, completely without any need. All this will do is to create further useless impediments to traffic. I have lived
on Maybell, adjacent to Arastradero, for 28 years, so I know the neighborhood.

These proposed curbs will probably cause traffic accidents as people run over them. About five years ago, the traffic
folks installed stop sign “islands” in several locations on Maybell. People have run over the stop signs at least 15 times.
They are a menace. The other night, a driver bringing me back home from the airport nearly hit the one near my house.
Only my warning kept him from running over it.

Can something be done to stop this from being completed?

Sincerely,

Peter Vilkin
Maybell Ave.




                                                              1
Carnahan, David

From:                Chris & Jennifer Steck <angesdeux@sbcglobal.net>
Sent:                Friday, August 31, 2018 3:38 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             City 311 referral system update one year later


City Council Members:
I contacted all of you a little over a year ago via e-mail with concerns over how the 311 system was being managed by the
City. To be more precise my concern was that nobody in the City was responsible for overseeing the operation of the
system. I offered a number of examples of how this lack of overall oversight was leading to all sorts of problems in the
system including but not limited to excessive delays before items were ever addressed, indication in the system that items
had been addressed when either they hadn't been addressed at all or had only been partially addressed and items that
sat in the system and were never addressed at all. At the time I only received a response from a single Council member
who indicated they shared many of my concerns. I never heard from anyone else over the last twelve months. I realize
you all have a lot of issues on your plates but this seems like a city wide issue that should concern all of you and would
have triggered more than just the lone response I received. I can't see that anything has changed or improved in the last
year with the 311 system management by the City. I'd like to get suggestions from any of you who are concerned with
this situation on the best way for me to proceed at this time with this issue.
Thank you,
Chris Steck
Chimalus Drive




                                                            1
Carnahan, David

From:                Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com>
Sent:                Monday, September 3, 2018 8:36 PM
To:                  gkirby@redwoodcity.org; Jonsen, Robert; dcbertini@menlopark.org; Tony Dixon;
                     paloaltofreepress@gmail.com; mdiaz@redwoodcity.org; stevendlee@alumni.duke.edu;
                     council@redwoodcity.org; ibain@redwoodcity.org; wilpf.peninsula.paloalto@gmail.com;
                     apardini@cityofepa.org; jalcaraz@cityofepa.org; jrosen@da.sccgov.org;
                     molly.o'neal@pdo.sccgov.org; myraw@smcba.org; Council, City; Kniss, Liz (internal);
                     bunnychiba@icloud.com; Lewis. james; drutherford@cityofepa.org; Lee, Craig;
                     cromero@cityofepa.org; Kilpatrick, Brad; Constantino, Mary; michael.gennaco@oirgroup.com;
                     mbuell@cityofepa.org; sscott@scscourt.org; mharris@scscourt.org; jsylva@scscourt.org;
                     rpichon@scscourt.org; senator.hill@senate.ca.gov; roberta.ahlquist@sjsu.edu;
                     cmartinez@cityofepa.org; scharpentier@cityofepa.org; lmoody@cityofepa.org
Subject:             Colin Kaepernick joins Nike's "Just Do It" campaign




Love this! Will be sure to buy a pair of Nike’s now!!! Aram


Colin Kaepernick joins Nike's "Just Do It" campaign https://www.cbsnews.com/news/colin‐kaepernick‐nike‐just‐do‐it‐
campaign‐announcement‐today‐2018‐09‐03/


Sent from my iPhone




                                                              1
Carnahan, David

From:                Robert Schulte <rbschulte@sbcglobal.net>
Sent:                Friday, August 31, 2018 11:47 PM
To:                  Keene, James
Cc:                  Scharff, Gregory (internal); Sartor, Mike; City Mgr; Council, City; Hospitalier, Jon;
                     price@padailypost.com
Subject:             El Camino Real Trailers



Mr. Keene,

I assume you are still the City Manager. This situation is getting ridiculous. No other City is permitting
this. Junk trailers all over the place, now stacking up back to back in the residential area between Maybell and
Vista. Other types of junk vehicles, some for hauling something, and a mobile pizza truck (this is brand new
though fortunately) operating on El Camino Real are also part of the circus we have going on here. Please
explain why you, the council, our police, or whoever (the county or state?) is letting this happen only in our
city.

On another note, I have given up on anyone maintaining Palo Alto’s El Camino Real. Besides the road
deterioration, the landscaping is ugly and overgrown (Oregon Expressway is ironically well maintained
though), street signal lights need paint and signs are bent and totally faded, etc. Does anyone from your staff or
the county or the state ever do a survey like a property manager might do? I drove recently through stretches of
El Camino maybe in Burlingame with brand new signals just for cross walks. We could use one at Vista and El
Camino but apparently Palo Alto has this no can do, it is a state road, attitude. I plan to get media out here,
maybe KTVU, to get some answers. This City is not as nice as people think, especially if you live near El
Camino.

By the way, I don’t think many people actually live in those trailers. If so, I would have compassion. I think it
is just hoarder storage space on rent free El Camino Real. There was some news story that the people living in
all these trailers are working on City and Stanford construction jobs. I would like to see some support for that
assertion. Maybe the local paper can find out how many people are coming out of the trailers with hard hats
early every morning. I am copying Mr. Price.

Bob

Sent from my iPhone

On Apr 4, 2017, at 6:02 PM, Keene, James <James.Keene@CityofPaloAlto.org> wrote:

        Our folks are taking a closer look to see what can be done and also reaching out to colleagues at
        CalTrans, etc

                     <image005.jpg>
           <image006.jpg>
                            James Keene | City Manager
                            250 Hamilton Avenue | Palo Alto, CA 94301
                            James.Keene@CityofPaloAlto.org
                            Please think of the environment before printing this email – Thank you!



                                                               1
From: Robert Schulte [mailto:rbschulte@sbcglobal.net]
Sent: Tuesday, April 4, 2017 1:33 PM
To: Keene, James <James.Keene@CityofPaloAlto.org>
Cc: Scharff, Gregory (internal) <Greg.Scharff@CityofPaloAlto.org>; Sartor, Mike
<Mike.Sartor@CityofPaloAlto.org>; City Mgr <CityMgr@cityofpaloalto.org>; Council, City
<city.council@cityofpaloalto.org>
Subject: Re: Debris along El Camino, Vista Intersection, Street Lights/Signs

Mr. Keene,

Thank you. I see. I thought it was a County road. If the City can get CalTrans (I guess) out
here to clean it up great. If not, I hope Public Works can take of this. El Camino is pretty
damaged from all the rain, with sections of top layer gone especially along Barron Park. Really
a rough ride with pot holes too. Please pressure the State to fix their road.

Thank you.
Bob

Sent from my iPhone

On Apr 4, 2017, at 8:16 AM, Keene, James <James.Keene@CityofPaloAlto.org> wrote:

       Mr Schulte,
       Will share with our public works staff. El Camino Real is a State road .

       Jim

       James Keene
       City Manager
       Palo Alto, California




                                                  2
Carnahan, David

From:                D Martell <dmpaloalto@gmail.com>
Sent:                Thursday, August 30, 2018 2:14 PM
Cc:                  Keene, James; Shikada, Ed; Council, City; Kniss, Liz (internal); Scharff, Gregory (internal); Stump, Molly;
                     Kleinberg, Judy; Drekmeier, Peter; Eggleston, Brad; Goodell, Erin; Jonsen, Robert;
                     Supervisor.Simitian@bos.sccgov.org; Anne.Ream@mail.house.gov; Alex Kobayashi; Bill Johnson; Jay
                     Thorwaldson; Dave Price; Allison@padailypost.com; EmiBach@padailypost.com;
                     richard@alexanderlaw.com; Aram James; Debra@firstpaloalto.com; Bear.ride@fprespa.org;
                     CHamilton@da.sccgov.org
Subject:             Farewell to Mr. Mello




Josh Mello
Chief Transportation Official
City of Palo Alto

Mr. Mello:

During your short tenure with my Palo Alto City government, we paid you upwards to a $ million dollars. Know that the
damage you created to my home far exceeds that amount of a $ million dollars.

Your management of downtown City parking has created chaos, at best. Your traffic safety project along Middlefield
Avenue is a failure, as evidenced by thirteen (13) auto collisions at Middlefield and Lincoln Avenue so far this year,
despite resident repeated pleadings to remedy the problem with a single crosswalk (!). Your arrogant ineptitude has left
locals ignored, insulted, and up-in-arms. I'm personally offended by your disregard for the disabled and for our
compromised seniors. Your refusal to be accountable to the community, to the extent that you refuse to even answer
direct questions, is appalling.

It is not advantageous to your career to patronize Palo Alto citizens. I certainly hope you don't receive a severance
package or made-a-deal for your resignation (dismissal?). Thanks for nothing! You left my home in a big mess. We will
take years cleaning up after you.

Congratulations on manning up to "resign". You're doing the right thing.

Sincerely,
-Danielle Martell
Palo Alto City Council candidate, 2016 & 2005




                                                               1
Carnahan, David

From:               lchiapella@juno.com
Sent:               Tuesday, September 4, 2018 8:10 PM
To:                 Passmore, Walter
Cc:                 Council, City; Keene, James
Subject:            Fw: RE: 2811 Middlefield Road - Safeway


Hello Walter,

It has been over 3 months since your email in regards to Safeway at 2811 Middlefield Road. At least 2 more trees have
died in the interim and 1 more is moribund. It is clear that the irrigation at Safeway along its perimeters are not
consistently watered and therefore do not thrive. Perhaps the City of Palo Alto should plant more trees and WATER
them to provide a more consistent tree lined boulevard in the Midtown commercial area.

I am sure that the enforcement action you alluded to was opened as specified, but apparently there has not been
sufficient followup to entice any action from the property owner. This Safeway was named the highest grossing store
per square foot in the chain, but it does not have enough money to pay for a gardener or water its trees.

Noticeably other property owners are following Safeway's lead. which can be seen at the two properties directly across
the street from Safeway. Do you have the authority to follow up and get the property owners to turn the water back on
and water their trees?

Sincerely,

Lynn Chiapella

‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded Message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
From: "lchiapella@juno.com" <lchiapella@juno.com>
To: Walter.Passmore@CityofPaloAlto.org
Subject: RE: 2811 Middlefield Road ‐ Safeway
Date: Fri, 25 May 2018 01:21:09 GMT

Please notify me when and if a landscape plan WITH IRRIGATION is submitted. There are many dead trees on the
property and this is the 2nd planting. no water, no trees.

‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Original Message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
From: "Passmore, Walter" <Walter.Passmore@CityofPaloAlto.org>
To: "lchiapella@juno.com" <lchiapella@juno.com>
Cc: "Keene, James" <James.Keene@CityofPaloAlto.org>, "Sproat, Derek" <Derek.Sproat@CityofPaloAlto.org>, "Dale,
Dorothy" <Dorothy.Dale@CityofPaloAlto.org>, "Stephens, James" <James.Stephens@CityofPaloAlto.org>
Subject: RE: 2811 Middlefield Road ‐ Safeway
Date: Wed, 23 May 2018 23:06:15 +0000

Dear Ms. Chiapella,
Thank you for reporting this issue. The Urban Forestry Section will open a code enforcement report and investigate.
Typically property owners will voluntarily comply with any identified corrections given a reasonable time frame. Please
be aware that conversations and any needed actions from this point forward will be between the City and property
owner.


                                                           1
Walter Passmore | Urban Forester
Public Works Department&#65533;&#65533;&#65533;&#65533;



3201 E. Bayshore Road | Palo Alto, CA 94303
D: (650) 496‐5986&#65533; E:walter.passmore@cityofpaloalto.org

&#65533;
Please think of the environment before printing this email ‐ Thank you

‐‐‐‐‐Original Message‐‐‐‐‐
From: Info, Plandiv
Sent: Wednesday, May 23, 2018 8:46 AM
To: Dale, Dorothy
Subject: FW: 2811 Middlefield Road ‐ Safeway

Good morning Dorothy,

Can you please reply or forward this email to the appropriate person?

Thank you,


Robin
Robin Ellner | Administrative Associate III| P&CE Department
250 Hamilton Avenue | Palo Alto, CA 94301
T: 650.329.2603 |E: robin.ellner@cityofpaloalto.org

Please think of the environment before printing this email ‐ Thank you!




‐‐‐‐‐Original Message‐‐‐‐‐
From: lchiapella@juno.com [mailto:lchiapella@juno.com]
Sent: Tuesday, May 22, 2018 8:32 PM
To: Info, Plandiv
Cc: Keene, James
Subject: 2811 Middlefield Road ‐ Safeway

To Whom It May Concern:

The landscape trees at Safeway on2811 Middlefield Road are not thriving and many have died for lack of water during
the drought. Almost all trees oon the site are essentially planted in planters surrounded by parking lot and streets.
They live in a concrete planter with no planned steady irrigation. Hence the mortality rate is high. I know that the
water system on the SE side of the property is not maintained. It appears that most of the trees (this is a second
planting) have died or are moribund.

The approved ARB landscape has not been delivered by the property owners. Without water no landscape will thrive.
What is the process by which the landscape plan can be reinstated? Please inform me of the next step.
                                                           2
Carnahan, David

From:                Mel Liu <melliu02@gmail.com>
Sent:                Tuesday, September 4, 2018 1:35 PM
To:                  Council, City
Cc:                  Friend, Gil; divestpaloalto@googlegroups.com; 350 Silicon Valley Chat; Paul George @ PPJC
Subject:             Fwd: First-Ever Climate Emergency Town Hall


Dear Councilmembers,

Berkeley has led the way for cities to flip the discussion from climate change to climate emergency. Shouldn't our
city do the same?

A formal declaration is a powerful thing. It sets in motion a sense of urgency that says all lives matter, that all life
matters, that we recognize the our nation's outsized role in trashing the planet and that we don't accept a survival of the
fittest/luckiest/greediest scenario.

Sincerely,
Melanie Liu


‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
From: Margaret Klein Salamon <TCM@theclimatemobilization.org>
Date: Tue, Sep 4, 2018 at 7:28 AM
Subject: First‐Ever Climate Emergency Town Hall
To: Melanie Liu <melliu02@gmail.com>




Friends,

Last Friday was a major national first for our City by City strategy.

When Berkeley California declared climate emergency on June 12 of this year, the resolution
included a commitment to help launch a Bay Area regional mobilization and just transition effort.


                                                             1
Last Friday they took a huge step in realizing that commitment, hosting a climate emergency town
hall that brought together elected leaders, sustainability staff, other governmental officials, and
community groups and organizers for a powerful day grappling with the stark reality of where we are
and strategizing on how to restore a safe climate at emergency speed.


Thank you Berkeley Vice Mayor Cheryl Davila, Councilmember Kate Harrison, and Mayor Jesse
Arreguin for making this happen. Thank you LA City Councilmember Paul Koretz, Vice Mayor Davila,
and Councilmember Harrison for delivering a rousing call to attendees to join them in mobilizing to
protect humanity and the natural world. You can read our report from the field for more detail on the
big day! Huge shout outs to our organizers in the Bay Area!

We are just getting started! We are hoping that, after witnessing the townhall, many more cities and
counties in the Bay Area region will declare a climate emergency, commit to mobilization, and
embrace the role of advocate, as Berkeley has. We see tremendous possibilities opening up for a
breakthrough paradigm shift in the Bay Area.

Next week, Climate Mobilization organizers in 11 localities across the U.S. and Canada will build on
this momentum, urging their cities to mobilize for a safe climate.

Will you join them? Sign up here to start a Climate Mobilization chapter in your city or work with an
existing group to start a climate emergency campaign.

Onward!
Margaret




                                          Donate $5 a month!
                                         Donate $30 a month!
                                         Donate $50 a month!

                                        The Climate Mobilization
                                      275 9th Street, Suite 150387
                                          Brooklyn, NY 11215
                                              United States



                                                    2
If you believe you received this message in error or wish to no longer receive email from us, please
                                           unsubscribe.




                                                 3
Carnahan, David

From:               Riccardo Gaudino <ctb500@gmail.com>
Sent:               Tuesday, September 4, 2018 6:48 PM
To:                 celebrate@usaproud.org
Subject:            Fwd: Inspire mayors - help teach your town founding
Attachments:        Mayor-RohnertPark-Sept 9.pdf


Reply! Questions: Riccardo Gaudino, Education Director Golden State History ‐ Curriculum Task Force 415.933.4742
Good morning Mayor, Celebrate California Admission Week Sept. 9‐16. Help teaching students to know the story of
their town's founding, acting as the first citizen. The State Board of Education approved the 2016 standards of Pacific
maritime routes in US 8th grade history. This innovative goal guarantees students access to the basic knowledge of
your local landscape and people of our Golden Gate Frontier Region. I have included wording to champion teaching
students for this positive outcome, improve the basic knowledge in all your citizens of your town, and complete this 20
year community service.
Proclamation: (change as you wish)
Whereas, the California State Board of Education approved the Around the Horn transportation routes as standards in
8th grade US History, and
Whereas, the City of ______ was founded due to the Spanish mission system of Alta California on the Pacific Coast
served by ships, and
Whereas, the school districts of California are now required to teach how transportation routes, influenced by Pacific
physical geography and climate, resulted in your town's founding, and, Now, I, _____ , acting as Mayor of City of
_____, do hereby proclaim "History Yes!!! Wear A Hat" for Teaching My Town's Founding Week for September 9
California Admission Day, and USA PROUD Learning of our Golden Gate Frontier landscape and people in 8th grade US
History, and
Furthermore recommended for the school board(s) add this innovation to guarantee students access to basic
knowledge of their community roots, with special thanks to the Golden State History Task Force to open the local door
to learning and growing community awareness. Question: 415.933.4742
www.californiadreamer.org Read Rohnert Park Mayor Proclamation Send to: Golden State History 1065
Seymour St., Napa, CA 94559




                                                           1
'   ...



                                     MARIN COUNTY BOARD OF EDUCATION

                                               RESOLUTION NO. 922

                        ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF A HISTORICAL EDUCATIONAL MILESTONE

           Resolution to Commemorate the Historical Milestone of the gth Grade History Social Science
           Standards to include Pacific Maritime Routes for Teaching Excellence in all California Schools



                 WHEREAS, the history of the Pacific Coast Maritime Routes - around Cape Horn, across
          Panama, Peru, Hawaii and Asia to the California coast, including the Marin County coast and
          waterways, have shaped trade development, development of labor force and the
          transportation of gold and farm products; and

                  WHEREAS, the teaching of the rich history of the Pacific Coast maritime and overland
          transportation routes enables students to be aware of and knowledgeable about the way
          communities they live in have developed : how the Coastal Miwok Indians populated this region
          for thousands of years in over 600 sites; how the first Spanish settlement in Marin was
          established in 1817 when Mission San Rafael Archangel was founded; how Marin County is
          home to numerous ecosystems including Coastal Strand, oak woodland, mixed evergreen
          forest, and Coast Redwood Forests chaparral and riparian zones; how the Lagunitas Creek
          Watershed is home to the largest-remaining wild run of Coho salmon (endangered at both state
          and federal level) in Central California; and

                 WHEREAS, State Resolution 33 encouraged recognition of the significant role Maritime
          Transportation Routes played in the history and development of California, the diverse
          populations and the patterns of settlement which all played a key role in the cultural and
          economic history of California; and

                  WHEREAS, in 2016 the California State Board of Education adopted the History-Social
          Science framework, including the standards addressing Pacific maritime transportation in the
          history of California for 8th grade instruction; and

                   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Marin County Board of Education hereby
          recognizes this historic milestone of the gth Grade History-Social Science Standards to include
          Pacific Maritime Routes for Teaching Excellence in all California Schools and adopt this
          resolution to celebrate our heritage of innovation in education and inspire Marin County school
          districts, teachers and students with the 19th Century perspective of US History.

                 PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Marin County Board of Education at a special meeting
          held on the 27th day of June, 2017 by the following vote:

          AYES:     Garbarino, Goldman, Hellman, Nemzer, Robinson, Warren, Wilson

          NOES:     None

          ABSENT: None
(SEAL)




                                         Marin County Board
Attest :




              RKE, Secretary
Marin County Board of Education and
Marin County Superintendent of Schools
           A
                   rere you  USA Proud?
                        you USA
                        Proud?
                      Dear Student: Explore the map. Imagine sailing
                      from Boston to South America to Hawaii and
                      finally California. In the 1840s at Sonoma and
                      Petaluma Valley, General Vallejo was shipping
                      hides on Mexico’s Frontera del Norte with his
                      Acapulco partner Henry Virmond to Germany.
                      This poster-calendar is for you to take home
                      to display. In 2002, when you were born as
                      the new Millineum generation, we started
                      to fix the problem in California schools of
                                                                             Riccardo Gaudino
                      not teaching teens how to open their local             Education Director for USA PROUD Learning Challenge.
                      “Pacific Coast” window in 19th Century US
                      History. In 2004, we sailed as a courier ship dispatched for you for this patriotic purpose to improve the US
                      history law with mayor endorsements from Monterey to the Capitol. In 2006, the California Senate adopted
                      the Pacific Maritime Routes resolution. Finally, August 2016, the State Board of Education approved the
                      “Around the Horn” and “President Polk” standards for teaching teens US history in grades 8th and 11th.
                      Now, for the first time in our Golden State K-12 schools, you have the sailing ship, the horse, the covered
                      wagon, the American steam locomotive, all together for learning. You have the complete Atlantic-Pacific
                      geo-political system of climate, soils, food staples, commerce, waterways, technology, migration in the West.

    The pioneer       I share the hope for this education milestone to guarantee you access to basic knowledge of our landscape
                      and people. Today’s generations will now growup with local roots in the classroom to improve community
                      awareness that we didn’t have... to transform apathy into caring.
 purpose of this
 innovation will
     strengthen
 your classroom
       learning
  connection to
grow community
    awareness.




                                                            We are dedicated
                                                             to teaching this
                                                          essential foundation
                                                          that guarantees your
                                                            access and youth
                                                          preparedness for our
                                                           democracy’s future.
                                                                                                             © 2017 Golden State History
Carnahan, David

From:
Sent:
                     Ill
                     Wednesday, August 29, 2018 12:16 PM
To:                   Keene, James
Cc:                   Council, City; l l l
Subject:              Fwd: SAFETY ISSUE - Lack of accommodation for disabled patron at Mitchell Park Library


Hello Mr. Keene,

Per my voicemail today, there are significant unsafe conditions that the City has created at the Mitchell Park Library that
is impeding- safe access to the library.

It is clear to me that Library Management is not taking this seriously, but I'm hoping that you will.

It is mayhem at this point - chi ldren running in the library, both adu lts and children riding bikes and scooters on the patio
and along the very narrow sidewalk.

Riders dropping their bikes on the patio near the entrance, making it difficult to sometimes get safely to the entrance.

The bike stands create an unsafe barrier to safely accessing drop-off and pick-up in the white zone.

Bike riders shoot down the narrow sidewalk, at a high rate of speed, as a pass through from the park.

There are no bike lanes for the kids to use, the parking lot is narrow and dangerous, so not safe for anyone.

Clearly whomever designed the front of the library did not use even an iota of common sense when planning t hat
design.

Thus, the City has created extraordinarily unsafe conditions for anyone with disabilities, anyone who is medically fragile,
anyone with special needs, anyone at all really, including the kids .

• • loves the Mitchell Park Library, but is now expressing fear about going there because of all the bikes whizzing by
and kids running in the library, fear that someone will run into. causin g . to fall.

It is only a matter of time before someone will suffer injury due to these conditions.

Thank you.




·-
All the best,




Begin forwarded message :

         From: "Kanth, Gayathri" <Gayathri.Kanth@CityofPaloAlto.org>
         Date: August 20, 2018 1:50:37 PM PDT
To:      <
Subject: RE: SAFETY ISSUE ‐ Lack of accommodation for disabled patron at Mitchell Park Library

Hi

Thank you for your follow up email. I'm sorry that your                 had difficulty getting to the library.

Library staff have been working with running children and will continue to work with them.
We are investigating the possibility of installing signs in the patio area.

Hope           will be able to use the library safely.

Thanks,

Gayathri.

Gayathri Kanth | Assistant Library Director

1213 Newell Avenue | Palo Alto, CA 94303

D: 650.329.2668 | Gayathri.Kanth@cityofpaloalto.Org



Please think of the environment before printing this email ‐ Thank you


‐‐‐‐‐Original Message‐‐‐‐‐
From:        [mailto
Sent: Wednesday, August 15, 2018 2:48 PM
To: leConge Ziesenhenne, Monique; Kanth, Gayathri; City Mgr; Perez, Alexander; Garcia, RuthAnn;
Martinez, Josh
Cc:
Subject: SAFETY ISSUE ‐ Lack of accommodation for disabled patron at Mitchell Park Library

Thank you one and all for helping            get     library card ‐   is so thrilled.

There continues to be a problem with safe access to the Mitchell Park library ‐         was very scared last
week, and then today, to walk in the patio area to enter the library.

This was because children were riding scooters and bikes in that area.

There was also a bit of a problem with children running in the library last week.

Can you please make sure that both children and adults know the rules and are educated on them?

Can someone at the library be assigned to monitor this?

I don't want          or anyone else, to be scared, and be at risk of falling due to this problem.

Thank you.


                                                         2
·-
All the best,




On Jul 7, 2018, at 6:40 AM,.                            wrote:



        Thank you all !


        Much appreciated.


        Gayathri, I received your email and do as you request.




       ·-
        All the best,




        On Jul 3, 2018, at 1:00 PM, "leConge Ziesenhenne, Monique"
        <Monigue.leConge@CityofPaloAlto.org> wrote:


                Hello,


                Please expect a paper application in the mail and we will follow up and
                provide the library card by mail at the address you've provided below.


                Again, we look forward to seeing you in our libraries soon!




                Monique le Conge Ziesenhenne, PhD
                Director of Library & Community Services President, Public Library
                Association, 2018-2019


                270 Forest Avenue   I Palo Alto, CA 94301

                D: 650.329.2403   I E: monigue.ziesenhenne@cityofpaloalto.org



                                                    3
Please think of the environment before printing this email - Thank
you




What I'm Reading Now:
The Art of Possibility: Transforming Professional and Personal Life
by Rosamund Stone Zander




-----Original Message-----
From:. [mailto
Sent: Monday, July 02, 2018 3:41 PM
To: leConge Ziesenhenne, Monique
<Monigue.leConge@CityofPaloAlto.org>
                                 City Mgr <CityMgr@cityofpaloalto.org>
Subject: Re: Lack of accommodation for disabled patron at Mitchell
Park Library


Thank you Monique.


Since- is unable to use the Internet, would you kindly mail an
application t o . so that I can fill it out and mail it back to you for
processing?


At this point, I think that it would be bestifl
                                             actually has a new library
card in hand beforel may be willing to feel comfortable enough to try
Mitchell Park library again.




--
Thank you again.




·-
All the best,




                                      4
On Jul 2, 2018, at 1:05 PM, "leConge Ziesenhenne, Monique"
<Monique.leConge@CityofPaloAlto.org> wrote:


       Dear


       On behalf of the City Manager, I want to express how
       sorry I am for your         recent experience at the Palo
       Alto City Library. It is certainly not the experience that I
       expect our visitors and patrons to have when they come
       into a library facility.


       Your comments are correct, in that everyone should be
       made to feel welcome, to have access to the library,
       and that a solution should have been found the day
       was here. I will work with staff to be sure that they are
       better trained to find an answer in the moment. The
       appropriate managers have been copied here so that
       they can be sure to follow up. I do hope that you and
       your      will return to use the library.


       Again, I appreciate your comments. Please do not
       hesitate to contact me if you have additional questions
       or comments in the future.


       Sincerely,




       Monique le Conge Ziesenhenne, PhD
       Director of Library & Community Services President,
       Public Library
       Association, 2018‐2019


       270 Forest Avenue | Palo Alto, CA 94301


       D: 650.329.2403 | E:
       monique.ziesenhenne@cityofpaloalto.org




       Please think of the environment before printing this
       email ‐ Thank
       you


                                    5
What I'm Reading Now:
The Art of Possibility: Transforming Professional and
Personal Life
by Rosamund Stone Zander




‐‐‐‐‐Original Message‐‐‐‐‐
From:         [mailto
Sent: Monday, July 02, 2018 11:51 AM
To: City Mgr <CityMgr@cityofpaloalto.org>
Cc:       <
Subject: Lack of accommodation for disabled patron at
Mitchell Park
Library


Hello,


      went to Mitchell Park Library this morning and
was made to feel very badly by your library staff.


They were very dismissive and they made        feel
unwelcome, so left.


They did not accommodate         special needs, which
include                                  .


Firstly, wanted to check out DVDs.        could not find
    library card, and they could not find   record in
their system.


So, wanted to get a new one, but did not have any ID
with address on it.




    then asked for a form to bring home to me to fill out
so that could get a new library card, and again was
dismissed and told to fill it out on the Internet.

                             6
Your staff should NEVER ASSUME that patrons are able



-
to use the Internet - - is unable to due to.



And, we do not have good enough Internet access at
home for me to do it f o r .


The bottom line:


Your library staff did not have enough humanity and
caring to accommodate- special needs.


Simply put, they were unkind t o . and made. feel
unwelcome.


As a result,   I   left feeling rejected and dejected.


The actions of your staff resulted in-being
unable to access your library, which is unacceptable.


They could have and should have come up with some
sort of solution during. visit to solve both problems -
they didn't, because they just didn't care.


Please fix this, as I would like-     to be able to
access your library, to feel welcome at all times, and to
feel good about going there.


Thank you.




·-
All the best,




                                7
Carnahan, David

From:                   Michael Harbour <dr.mharbour@gmail.com>
Sent:                   Sunday, September 2, 2018 6:20 PM
To:                     Council, City
Cc:                     Keene, James
Subject:                Fwd: URGENT: 429 University Ave Appellants Recommend Rejection of Latest Plans


Dear City Council Members:

Below is the Appellant's response to the recently re‐submitted design plans for 429 University Ave. The Appellants
reject these amended designs and have asked the ARB to deny approval. The Applicant has failed to adequately address
the final four items mandated by the City Council in their Motion from February 6, 2017. The Motion states that the
Planning Department should report to the City Council in writing their findings for your final review. We encourage you
to closely follow these proceedings and review the plans in relationship to your original Motion.

Thank you for your continued commitment to the appropriate development of Palo Alto.

Sincerely,
Michael Harbour, MD, MPH, FACP
Lead Appellant for 429 University Ave
Downtown Resident 480 Palo Alto Ave
Downtown commercial property owner 421 and 421 Kipling Street

‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
From: Michael Harbour <dr.mharbour@gmail.com>
Date: Sun, Sep 2, 2018 at 5:25 PM
Subject: URGENT: 429 University Ave Appellants Recommend Rejection of Latest Plans
To: arb@cityofpaloalto.org


Dear Architectural Review Board Members,

I am writing on behalf of the Appellants to the 429 University Avenue Proposed Development Project. The Appellants are very
disappointed with the applicant's re‐submission of plans (dated 8‐23‐18) in response to the items required in the City Council's Motion from
February 6, 2017. The required items (in bold) and the Appellant's responses (in red) for each are listed below. The ARB saw these
incomplete and sparse plans for building Option #1 (selected by City Council) for the first time on August 16, 2018. As a proposed
development, the ARB has had less input on this particular building design than most. We strongly urge you to reject these plans as
submitted and return them to the City Council for final review and approval.

City Council Motion and Appellant Response:

   1. Applicant to return to ARB for review of proposed Western Wall design‐‐although the tree pattern is an iterative improvement,
the overall design is incongruous and unconnected with the rest of the entire building. It makes no sense.

   2. Applicant to return to ARB for review and recommendations for landscaping‐‐ the landscaping
remains sparse, poorly designed, and does not bring warmth to a giant, cold cement block building.

   3. Applicant to return to ARB for review and recommendation to Director of Planning of building
materials, colors, and craftsmanship related detailing associated with building‐‐this submitted building and
design has been "disavowed" by the original architect, Joe Bellomo. The applicant had advertised him as
the "Birge Clark Award" recipient which was something intended to mitigate the fact that Birge Clark
                                                                     1
buildings would be demolished if this building is approved. Mr. Bellomo told the ARB that the cement slag
was "proprietary." Since the original design, materials and craftsmanship are no longer the same as those
originally promised, we strongly urge denial based on the inability to confirm the original items as
submitted.

   4. Also recommended ARB consider recessed pedestrian entries as ARB has consistently sought to
improve the pedestrian experience of this building, but there has been little refinement of the feature over
the different iterations‐‐the building violates municipal design code and downtown design
guidelines. There is no improvement or change to the pedestrian experience of this building. It remains
"unfriendly." In inclement weather, there is no recessed space or shelter for pedestrians. The building is a
giant cement block which maximizes size and demonstrates massing. It lacks transition to neighboring
buildings. It is not compatible with surrounding one story buildings with recesses.

Thank you for your detailed review of these items listed within the Motion. This meeting was hastily
scheduled during a holiday week, and unfortunately no appellants are unable to attend in person. The city's
assigned planner, Adam Peterson, is also unable to attend. Since this meeting is quasi‐judicial, any concern
regarding any of the above four items should be sent back to the City Council for its final decision. Please do
not approve the plans as submitted.

Sincerely,
Michael Harbour, MD, MPH, FACP
Lead Appellant for 429 University Avenue




                                                        2
From:           Roberta Ahlquist
To:             citycouncil@menlopark.org; Council, City
Subject:        Fwd: Fw: Los Angeles Tenants: The Rent’s Getting Too Damn High!
Date:           Monday, September 3, 2018 1:00:13 PM


Residents across the state are hampered if there is no rent controls
----- Forwarded Message -----
From: Capital & Main <info@capitalandmain.com>

Sent: Friday, August 31, 2018, 12:52:29 PM PDT
Subject: Los Angeles Tenants: The Rent’s Getting Too Damn High!



                                         View this email in your browser




    August 31, 2018

    Los Angeles County has not had a rent control policy for its unincorporated areas since
    Ronald Reagan was president. That leaves low-income tenants like 62-year-old Jose
    Nuñez, of Florence-Firestone, with limited options. Nuñez, who gets by on a $975 monthly
    disability payment, was recently served with an eviction notice, along with other tenants in
    his apartment complex.

    Nuñez hasn't been able to find another apartment he can afford. And so he and other
    tenants have banded together to fight the eviction in court. Theirs is an increasingly
common battle in California, where skyrocketing rents have given rise to a burgeoning
tenants-rights movement. Renters are taking their grievances to local governments, to
courtrooms and, in November, to the ballot box, where voters will decide a controversial
measure that could give municipalities more latitude to regulate rents.




                                                 Los Angeles Teachers Prepare for Strike

                                                 In the latest Learning Curves column:
                                                 Tensions mount between L.A. teachers
                                                 and the city’s public school district. Betsy
                                                 DeVos’ "No Gun Left Behind" grants. And
                                                 will California’s charter school law finally
                                                 be revised after 26 years?




The Economic Impact of Climate Change
Rattles the Oil Industry

Research shows that global warming will
hit the American economy hard,
particularly in the South. The oil industry is
now pushing for government-funded
protections against a problem it helped
create.




                                                 Joe Biden Backs ‘Public Option’ Foe in
                                                 Primary Fight

                                                 Delaware Sen. Tom Carper helped defeat
                                                 Joe Biden's Affordable Care Act public-
                                                 option proposal back in 2009. But
                                                 the former Vice President is still backing
                                                 Carper in his party’s primary. Co-
                                                 published by Splinter.




Cuomo Received $25,000 From Weinstein
Lawyer’s Firm as He Suspended Probe
New York Governor Andrew Cuomo
halted an investigation into the Manhattan
DA’s handling of the Harvey Weinstein
case just as the law firm representing
Weinstein gave Cuomo’s campaign
$25,000. Co-published by Sludge.




                                                     Ohio, NJ and California Pension Funds
                                                     Invested $885 Million in Hedge Fund That
                                                     Controls National Enquirer Parent

                                                     States pumped hundreds of millions of
                                                     dollars of pension cash into a high-risk
                                                     hedge fund that took control of the
                                                     National Enquirer’s parent company,
                                                     American Media Inc. Co-published by
                                                     MapLight and Fast Company.




Danny Feingold,
Publisher, Capital & Main




                       Copyright © 2018 Capital & Main, All rights reserved.
                 You are receiving this email because you opted in at our website.

                                    Our mailing address is:
                                        Capital & Main
                                      1910 W Sunset Blvd.
                                           Suite 740
                                  Los Angeles, California 90026

                                   Add us to your address book
       Want to change how you receive these emails?
You can update your preferences or unsubscribe from this list.
Carnahan, David

From:             Arlene Goetze <photowrite67@yahoo.com>
Sent:             Tuesday, September 4, 2018 1:15 PM
To:               Ro Khanna; press_harris@harris.senate.gov
Subject:          5G wireless on Public Health & Environment



Forwarded by Arlene Goetze, NO Toxins for Children, photowrite67@yahoo.com

N.B.
The Sept. 3 issue of Bloomberg Businessweek reports that South Korea now has a
$720 million experiment on 5G wireless networks and how they can reorder urban life in
Pangyo Zero City, an open air lab near Seoul. It can transform everything besides
phones--cameras on streets, car to driverless car communication, self-driving buses,
drones overhead, fewer underground cables for internet and more underground shopping
malls. Not a word about its effect on human and animal life.

From PubMed
Environ Res. 2018 Aug;165:484-495. doi: 10.1016/j.envres.2018.01.016. Epub 2018 Apr
11.

5 G wireless telecommunications expansion:
Public health and environmental implications.
by Russell CL1.
Author information
1PO Box 7443, Menlo Park, CA 94026, USA.
Electronic address: cindyleerussell@gmail.com.

* Radiofrequency radiation - RF. . .a new form of environmental pollution and
negative public health
* Years before health consequences are known
* Pregnant women and children are more vulnerable to developmental harm from
microwave radiation
* Children absorb more microwave radiation per body weight than an adult,
but standards are for adults.

Abstract
    The popularity, widespread use and increasing dependency on wireless technologies has
spawned a telecommunications industrial revolution with increasing public exposure to
broader and higher frequencies of the electromagnetic spectrum to transmit data through a
variety of devices and infrastructure.
    On the horizon, a new generation of even shorter high frequency 5G wavelengths is being
proposed to power the Internet of Things (IoT). The IoT promises us convenient and easy
lifestyles with a massive 5G interconnected tele-communications network, however, the
expansion of broadband with shorter wavelength radiofrequency radiation highlights the
concern that health and safety issues remain unknown.
   Controversy continues with regards to harm from current 2G, 3G and 4G wireless
                                                       1
technologies. 5G technologies are far less studied for human or environmental effects. It is
argued that the addition of this added high frequency 5G radiation to an already complex
mix of lower frequencies, will contribute to a negative public health outcome both from both
physical and mental health perspectives.
   Radiofrequency radiation (RF) is increasingly being recognized as a new form of
environmental pollution. Like other common toxic exposures, the effects of radiofrequency
electromagnetic radiation (RF EMR) will be problematic if not impossible to sort out
epidemiologically as there no longer remains an unexposed control group. This is their
common health risk behaviors. Effects can also be non-linear.
   Because this is the first generation to have cradle-to-grave lifespan exposure to this level
of man-made microwave (RF EMR) radiofrequencies, it will be years or decades before the
true health consequences are known. Precaution in the roll out of this new technology is
stronglyindicated.
    This article will review relevant electromagnetic frequencies, exposure standards and
current scientific literature on the health implications of 2G, 3G, 4G exposure, including
some of the available literature on 5G frequencies. The question of what constitutes a
public health issue will be raised, as well as the need for a precautionary approach
in advancing new wireless technologies.

3.1. Controversy persists as evidence of harm increases
    The controversy over health effects of radiofrequency electromagnetic radiation (RF EMR)
from commonly used wireless devices such as cell phones, cordless phones, WiFi routers
and cell tower infrastructure remains problematic. RF research in the U.S. is poorly funded
and even when a study is robust it never seems to answer the question of long term safety
or provide appropriate precautionary limits. (Wyde, 2016). In 2011 the International
Agency on Research on Cancer (IARC) listed non-ionizing radiofrequency radiation from cell
phones and other wireless devices in Group 2B: Possibly carcinogenic to humans, based
on a thorough analysis of current scientific evidence (IARC, 2011; IARC, 2017).
. . . Radiofrequencies are absorbed by and pass through living systems that contain
water. Pregnant women and children are more vulnerable to developmental harm
from microwave radiation due to immature organ systems (Birks et al., 2017, Othman
et al., 2017a, Othman et al., 2017b). Research also shows children absorb more
microwave radiation per body weight than an adult, however, standards were
developed for adult bodies (Morgan et al., 2014).
...
KEYWORDS:
Environmental pollution; Public health; Radiofrequency radiation; Wireless
technology       PMID: 29655646 DOI: 10.1016/j.envres.2018.01.016




                                               2
                                                                                   Please Contact the Clerk’s Office
                                                                                       to View Additional Pages,
                                                                                   Attachments, or Images Related
Carnahan, David                                                                            to this Document

From:               Cindy Alvarez <cindy.alvarez@mail.com>
Sent:               Wednesday, September 5, 2018 10:50 AM
To:                 scottlargent38@gmail.com
Cc:                 thompsonsharkey@gmail.com; sylvia.macdonald@ido.sccgov.org;
                    juliannemckinney@protonmail.com


One of our residents, Dan            has provided photograghs of property damage caused by Thompson
Also, one of the security guards here has provided written testimony that because of Thompson              the
conditions at Markham Plaza apartments have deteriorated to the point where he is in fear for his life coming to
work. Because of Thompson              and his collusion with the Santa Clara County Sheriff office , many young
children at the Markham Plaza Apartments will likely grow up suffering from post tramatic stress disorder.

I will do my part to warn as many people as possible about Thompson             He is a criminal and a danger to
society and he must be stopped.

Cindy Alvarez,
Markham Plaza Tenant Association




                                                          1
Carnahan, David

From:                Susan McConnell <susan-carl@outlook.com>
Sent:                Monday, September 3, 2018 11:27 PM
To:                  Howard, Adam
Cc:                  ParkRec Commission; Council, City
Subject:             Name Change


Hi Adam,

I wanted to inform you of our club name change. Our Silicon Valley Pickleball Club board voted to change the name of
our club to the Palo Alto Pickleball Club. We feel strongly that this more clearly represents who we are since we play in
Palo Alto on the Mitchell Park courts and our membership now has nearly 150 members that either live or work in Palo
Alto.

Today we invited all the club members to ratify our name change. It was approved unanimously with great
enthusiasm! We are now officially, the Palo Alto Pickleball Club.

Sincerely,
Susan McConnell
Palo Alto Pickleball Club
Board Secretary




                                                            1
Carnahan, David

From:                 Mike Alexander <malemike@earthlink.net>
Sent:                 Thursday, August 30, 2018 8:29 PM
To:                   Council, City
Subject:              nighttime home delivery of gas
Attachments:          P1590763.JPG


Dear City Council,

I'd like to share my concerns about the latest development in home delivery -- gasoline, delivered to the user's tank at
home, at night. On the surface it seems like a harmless convenience for those who are too busy to stop at the gas
station. But after witnessing three deliveries on my block in the past couple of months, I'd like to suggest that the program
probably needs tweaking. I've attached a photo of tonight's delivery, by a company called FillD.

             1. While it can't compare with leaf blowers or planes on approach to SFO, the process is not silent. One
                delivery occurred after 10 pm when the block was otherwise dead quiet, and the unusual sounds drew me
                out of the house to investigate.
             2. The process takes some time, during which the sidewalk is blocked by the truck and/or its hose, causing
                evening walkers to detour across the street.
             3. The use of bright emergency flashers during the delivery also the disturbs the nighttime peace of the
                block.
             4. Tonight, the driver had ear buds in, presumably listening to music, rendering him insensible to sounds
                that might indicate a problem.

It's bad enough that UPS and their ilk are roaming the neighborhoods at night, but on top of that general annoyance, this
gas delivery service adds safety elements that should be addressed.

Sincere thanks for all you do.

Mike Alexander

3391 Saint Michael Dr.

650-815-6719

ps ... I wonder if the City could levy a special fee on this extraordinary service.




                                                                1
Carnahan, David

From:                David Yoshida <hirodave40@gmail.com>
Sent:                Wednesday, August 29, 2018 3:58 PM
To:                  Howard, Adam
Cc:                  Council, City; Monica Williams
Subject:             Pickleball for Palo Alto


Adam,
I did not speak at the city council meeting last night but would like to weigh in. I was born at the Palo Alto Hospital in
1940. I have been a life time resident of the Bay Area. My office has been in Palo Alto since 1970 (48 years) and I am
still working part time. I am a pilot and have a plane at the Palo Alto Airport. As you know the airport is undergoing a
major upgrade. I have played tennis most of my adult life. Now I am a member of the Palo Alto Pickleball Club since last
year. Once you start to play pickleball you will find that it is very infectious. Players are old and young big and small fat
and thin and somehow playing pickleball equalizes the competition so that a small fat person can beat a big thin one. It
is amazing to watch all types of players. That to me is the fun of pickleball. Please come out and join us.

Adam thank you for supporting pickleball and helping to pass a favorable rule change for pickleball. I look forward to
four dedicated pickleball courts on tennis court 5.
David Yoshida, Ph.D.



Sent from my iPad




                                                              1
Carnahan, David

From:                 Jamie Pearson <jrpearson@gmail.com>
Sent:                 Thursday, August 30, 2018 9:50 AM
To:                   ParkRec Commission; Howard, Adam; Council, City


Dear tireless and unselfish commissioners, Adam, and city council members:

Thank you again so much for taking steps to revise the Mitchell Park court policy to formally include pickleball -- it's an
exciting development for Palo Alto.

More exciting, however, was the commission's interest in the immediate conversion of court 5 from a single tennis
court to four pickleball courts concurrent with the upcoming court resurfacing project.

This makes so much sense, both practically and financially. We've met, solicited feedback from stakeholders, weighed
our options, and debated for years. I don't think more discussion will give us more clarity. We know the facts -- now it's
time to act.

Can we look forward to seeing the court 5 conversion on the commission's agenda next month? Is there
anything I can personally do to ensure that this happens?

Warmest regards,
Jamie Pearson




                                                               1
Carnahan, David

From:               Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com>
Sent:               Thursday, August 30, 2018 7:06 PM
To:                 gkirby@redwoodcity.org; ibain@redwoodcity.org; paloaltofreepress@gmail.com;
                    mdiaz@redwoodcity.org; Jonsen, Robert; dcbertini@menlopark.org; stevendlee@alumni.duke.edu;
                    Tony Dixon; council@redwoodcity.org; Keene, James; wilpf.peninsula.paloalto@gmail.com;
                    myraw@smcba.org; apardini@cityofepa.org; michael.gennaco@oirgroup.com; jrosen@da.sccgov.org;
                    Council, City; molly.o'neal@pdo.sccgov.org; chuckjagoda1@gmail.com; cromero@cityofepa.org;
                    Binder, Andrew; stephanie@dslextreme.com; acisneros@capublicrecordslaw.com; Doug Fort;
                    griffinam@sbcglobal.net; gerrygras@earthlink.net
Subject:            Prison strike




        Here's what you need to know about the Nationwide Prison Strike going on right now.




                 Hi Aram –

                 Incarcerated people have had enough. Brutal treatment, deteriorating prison conditions, and
                 incredibly long sentences have led to widespread hopelessness among the incarcerated
                 population. That's why – right now – there's a Nationwide Prison Strike going on coast to
                 coast.

                 Get the full rundown of what this strike is all about and learn how we can all show our
                 solidarity – it means so much to the incarcerated people leading the charge.

                 The injustice of our criminal justice system is nothing new – you can trace it all the way back to
                 1865, when the 13th Amendment abolished slavery but carved out an exception for people
                 convicted of criminal offenses. Over 250 years later, strikers are calling for fair compensation
                 for their hard labor each day – it's one of 10 demands that include improving prison conditions,
                 properly funding rehabilitation, and addressing the racism that fuels mass incarceration.

                 Among all the strikers' demands, they're emphasizing the #Right2Vote. Currently, only Maine
                 and Vermont give all incarcerated and formerly incarcerated people their voting rights. People in
                 jail, prison, or on parole should have a voice in our democratic society. In fact, their voices
                 are key to resolving the countless failures of our criminal justice system.




                                                           1
Learn more about the remarkable act of civil disobedience sweeping through our nation.
It's about time we listen to the people who are directly impacted by our unjust policies.

Our country is stronger when we can all raise our voices to demand a better future. And in the
historic Nationwide Prison Strike, we're seeing just that.

Thanks for listening,




Udi Ofer
Director of the ACLU Campaign for Smart Justice




           DONATE NOW


  This email was sent to: abjpd1@gmail.com

  Unsubscribe

  Please note: If you forward or distribute, the links will open a page with your information filled in.

  We respect your right to privacy – view our policy.

  This email was sent by:
  American Civil Liberties Union
  125 Broad Street, 18th Floor
  New York, NY 10004, USA




                                            2
Carnahan, David

From:                 Mike Turbow <emturbow@mac.com>
Sent:                 Tuesday, September 4, 2018 11:28 AM
To:                   Council, City
Subject:              Publication of city meeting notices and agendas need to be re-evaluated


Dear Council Member:

         The City of Palo Alto’s decision re: the publication of city meeting notices and agendas in the Daily Post is Penny
wise and pound foolish. Palo Alto may save some money, but the notices and agendas will reach a much smaller
audience in the Daily Post than when the notices were published in the Palo Alto Weekly. The Daily Post is, in essence, a
real estate advertising brochure and not a journalistic newspaper. The Palo Alto Weekly is truly a local newspaper. It
focuses on local issues and supports the local community as evidenced by its annual Holiday Fund. I think it would be
foolish to save $20,000 at the expense of drastically reducing the public’s access to important information. I hope the
Council will reject this thoughtless decision by the Palo Alto City Clerk.

Thank you,

Myron Turbow
1870 Hamilton Ave.
Palo Alto, CA 94303
Tel: (650) 327‐0987




                                                             1
Carnahan, David

From:                Sue Dinwiddie <s.dinwiddie@me.com>
Sent:                Sunday, September 2, 2018 7:20 AM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             RE: Weekly Notice Publications


Honorable Council Members:

We were distressed to learn that Council notices will no longer be published in the Palo Alto Weekly, but instead will be
puio only in the Daily. It is difficult to understand how this decision helps democracy and transparency since every
household receives the Weekly, while one has to make an effort and travel from home to find a Daily.

We truly hope you will revise this decision

Sincerely,

Sue and Ken Dinwiddie



Sent from my iPhone




                                                            1
Carnahan, David

From:                E Nigenda <enigenda1@gmail.com>
Sent:                Tuesday, September 4, 2018 12:15 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Sea level rise and basements
Attachments:         2221 Louis Road.png; 2361 Louis Road.png; 2692 Ross Road.png; 2938 Ross Road.png


Dear City Council,

The latest Climate Change report from the State of California predicts “$18 billion to replace buildings inundated
by rising seas” among other severe impacts.

It will be expensive but I am more concerned with human life. The red dots on the Palo Alto map below show the
locations of four proposed houses with 1 - 3 bedrooms in the basements. As you can see, they are all located in the
"new" flood zone expected with sea level rise. In addition, very few cities have accounted for groundwater level
rise concurrent with sea level rise but scientists tell us groundwater level rise doubles the amount of area that
will be flooded.

Cities in Florida and Texas are revising their building codes to require houses be elevated to avoid flooding. The
loss of human life is a very real possibility. In order to protect human life, I respectfully request that the City look
into and address this issue.

Thank you for your service to our community,
Esther Nigenda, Ph. D.

Map S‐6 from City's Comprehensive Plan, p. 140. Location of basements with planned bedrooms
from City's Building Eye.




                                                            1
2
Carnahan, David

From:                Jeff Hoel <jeff_hoel@yahoo.com>
Sent:                Sunday, September 2, 2018 4:16 PM
To:                  UAC
Cc:                  Hoel, Jeff (external); Council, City; CAC-TACC
Subject:             smart meters -- a continuation


Commissioners,

Your 09-05-18 agenda
https://cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/66594
has an item (IX.2) about smart meters.

This item is a continuation of the smart meter discussion of 05-02-18.

Here's the 09-05-18 staff report (23 pages).
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/66550
It consists of:
* Just an announcement that this is a continuation from 05-02-18 (2 pages)
* Attachment A -- the 05-02-18 staff report, less its attachments (17 pages)
* Attachment B -- the 05-02-18 sense minutes for this item (4 pages)

For those who want to recall the details of the 05-02-18 discussion, please refer to the 05-02-18 staff report with its
attachments (103 pages)
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/64784
and to my previous comments.
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/blobdload.aspx?t=62465.62&BlobID=65229
* pre-meeting comments (pages 2-19)
* TRANSCRIPT & COMMENTS (pages 27-50)

Actually, I'm pretty disappointed that the 09-05-18 staff report makes no attempt whatsoever to address the many issues
that surfaced during the 05-02-18 discussion.

Below the "###" line, I list some of the outstanding issues.

Thanks.


Jeff

-------------------
Jeff Hoel
731 Colorado Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94303
-------------------

##################################################################################

ISSUES:

* Whether the NPV for the smart meter project is about zero or minus $7 million (over 18 years) apparently depends on
whether you get to count the money saved when consumers conserve, and on whether personnel synergies result. I think
that when consumers conserve, the money saved should go to them, not to the smart meter project. It's not clear how
much conservation can be attributed to smart meters. If the NPV is minus $7 million, is the project still a good idea? On
11-01-17, Commissioner Trumbull didn't think so.


                                                               1
* The 05-02-18 report assumes that smart meters will be connected to the central office by a wireless network, but it
doesn't provide an analysis of how much bandwidth will be needed. We know that other utilities have implemented AMI
systems that seem to work. We don't know -- or at least I don't know -- whether there's enough bandwidth to sample as
frequently as we want to, or use the kinds of protocols that assure security, etc.

* There was some discussion of what happens when the electric power goes out, but it wasn't supported by factual
evidence in the report. I now have the impression that an electric smart meter doesn't have a back-up battery, but only a
capacitor, that can keep the meter working for only a very short time -- only long enough for a "last gasp" message. That
won't support Commissioner Ballantine's vision of an AMI network that continues over time to tell you what's wrong.

* The report didn't discuss any of the specifics of the wireless network. I now have the impression that one of the options
being considered by staff is to outsource this network to one of the commercial wireless providers (like AT&T or
Verizon). Note that this puts the reliability of the network outside of the City's control. When Council approved Verizon's
last batch of small cell wireless nodes (05-21-18), it didn't require battery back-up, because it would have made the nodes
uglier. Even where the incumbent providers have battery back-up, I have the impression that it's for only about 20
minutes. Is that long enough? (The City's RFP #152569 for a citywide fiber-to-the-premises master plan (07-03-14)
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/42930
asked bidders to consider schemes tor remaining operational for seven days without grid power. I'm not saying that was
the right number, but it's longer than 20 minutes.)

* If the City's AMI system were to outsource the wireless network to a commercial provider, what would it cost, what would
the reliability be, etc.? Verizon recently throttled the wireless service of California firefighters.
https://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2018/08/verizon-throttled-fire-departments-unlimited-data-during-calif-wildfire/

* Water meters and gas meters would be powered by a built-in battery and not by grid power. And when the battery runs
out, you have to replace the whole radio. So how long does the battery last? It depends on how much the radio is
doing. So, it might be asked to transmit information only, say, twice per day. The report doesn't say anything about what
the options are. During the discussion, staff said the meter had the ability to tell the network when the battery was low, so
the utility could replace the unit before it failed in the field. And that's good. But not documented.

* There was some discussion about the need for an opt-out option for people who don't want their homes to have smart
meters. But the report didn't provide any specific ideas. It says we can figure this out later. How about figuring it out
now?




                                                              2
Carnahan, David

From:                 Letha DiLauro <lmdilauro@gmail.com>
Sent:                 Sunday, September 2, 2018 10:11 PM
To:                   Council, City
Subject:              train crossing Charleston and Meadow


Dear City Council,

I want the train or tunnel. I do not it on a wall. The wall will make the train louder, it is an ugly choose for Palo Alto and
we do not deserve a better than an eyesore. We will live wit the decision for the next 100 years. Do what is right.

We have enough noise with airplane traffic and the train. We do not need any additional noise pollution. I have lived
here for 47 years and am losing my hearing. Do you think the train could have anything to do with it? Before my
husband’s passing in 2016 he was also losing his hearing.

Why are we still studying the train on the wall? Put the money into a decision. Has anyone brought up the concern
over suicide prevention?

Thank you for reading y email.

Letha DiLauro
4131 Park Blvd.
Palo Alto, CA 94306

650‐493‐4278




                                                              1
Carnahan, David

From:               AmyMChristel <amymchristel@gmail.com>
Sent:               Wednesday, August 29, 2018 1:23 PM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            Transfer of City Notices and Agendas to lower circulation paper


Dear Council Members,
The recent move to save $20K per year (and decrease public awareness of City Notices and Agendas) by awarding the ciy
contract to the Daily as opposed to the PA Weekly is wrong. The Weekly is relied upon by Palo Altans because it is
delivered to homes and has solidly reported on the issues of this community for decades. The Daily Post is barely a rag.

What a short sighted move by the City Clerk! Please reverse this decision. If the $20K needs to be saved, cut funding
from “so‐called” bike blvd “improvements”. The rational Midotwn residents would never have supported the Ross Rd
changes if given proper notice of the extent and cost!

Thanks,
Amy Christel
Midtown

Sent from my iPhone




                                                           1
Carnahan, David

From:               Tony Ciampi <T.Ciampi@hotmail.com>
Sent:               Friday, August 31, 2018 9:57 PM
To:                 Keene, James; City Mgr; Ng, Judy; Binder, Andrew; michael.gennaco@oirgroup.com; Council, City;
                    Stump, Molly; Shikada, Ed
Cc:                 kamala_harris@harris.senate.gov; Nathan_Barankin@harris.senate.gov;
                    Marguerite_Biagi@harris.senate.gov; Clint_Odom@harris.senate.gov; Lily_Adams@harris.senate.gov;
                    dustin.brandenburg@mail.house.gov; katie.weiss@mail.house.gov; liz.argo@mail.house.gov;
                    Anthony.Ratekin@mail.house.gov; Jilian.Plank@mail.house.gov; kelsey.smith@mail.house.gov;
                    christopher.livingston@mail.house.gov; alexandra.gourdikian@mail.house.gov;
                    Philip_Maxson@mcconnell.senate.gov; asoltani@aclunc.org; btucker@aclunc.org;
                    organizing@aclunc.org; aschlosser@aclunc.org; mrisher@aclunc.org; info@sanjosenaacp.org;
                    naacpsfbr@att.net; actso@naacpnet.org; hollywoodbureau@naacpnet.org; info@lccr.com;
                    info@anamericaninjustice.com; bharat_ramamurti@warren.senate.gov;
                    elizabeth_warren@warren.senate.gov; Dan_Geldon@warren.senate.gov;
                    Stephanie_Akpa@warren.senate.gov; blanca.jimenez@mail.house.gov; rykia.dorsey@mail.house.gov;
                    Natasha_Hickman@burr.senate.gov; scheduling49@mail.house.gov;
                    Phil_Maxson@mcconnell.senate.gov; Natasha_Hickman@burr.senate.gov
Subject:            Will you provide an answer regarding Ofc. Conde's actions? - if so when?
Attachments:        ipa 1.PNG; ipa 2.PNG; ipa 3.PNG; 2017 Interim Report ID# 9064 Independent Police Auditor Info
                    Report.pdf; Letter to Mr. Ciampi 08.30.18.pdf; doj 1.png




James Keene
Palo Alto City Manager

Mr. Keene,



Attached is the Interim 2017 Indepdendent Police Auditor’s, IPA, report. Beginning on page 5 of this report is:

III. Internal Affairs Cases
Case # 1: Illegal Search and Excessive Force

Factual Overview



The PAPD’s Internal Investigation and the IPA did not require statements from the two juveniles to conclude
that the officer violated department policy and the laws and Constitutions by conducting an illegal search from
an illegal detainment as detailed in the report. The PAPD Internal investigator and the IPA relied on the MAV
recording and statements made by the officer; which you have regarding my case.




                                                         1
Furthermore I have already provided you and Officer Binder a statement regarding the incident with Officer
Christopher Conde. To imply that I am not providing you with the information you need to hold Ofc. Conde
accountable is misleading at best and a bogus ploy to deflect accountability from you and your subordinates.
As the City Manager the buck stops with you according to the City Charter and Code.



QUESTION: Is officer Christopher Conde the same officer who violated department policy, the Constitution
and the rights of the two juveniles in the report attached; the officer who also used excessive force on the two
teens?



It has been over three weeks since the incident with Ofc. Conde. When can you and or Officer Binder inform
me that you have either concluded that Ofc. Conde did nothing wrong or that he violated department policy
and the Constitutions?




                                                       2
I just want an official answer one way or the other so that I know how to write up my claim. I requested an
answer in one of the three public records requests but you did not provide one. Can you give me a date as to
when I can expect an official answer since I have not received one?




On another issue Mr. Keene I have been informed that your officers are requesting that certain citizens,
(homeless looking), sign a yellow piece of paper and give a thumb print so that other officers will know who
these particular citizens are. If this is true and given that your officers are not requesting this information
from all citizens but only a specific group of citizens one could conclude that such actions are
Unconstitutional. What do you think?




“Instead of going after one person, we go after the whole gang,” said Lt. Bob Jonsen

https://www.dailynews.com/2009/02/09/letters‐target‐gangs/




                                          Letters target gangs – Daily News
                                          www.dailynews.com

                                          LANCASTER – Los Angeles County Sheriff’s deputies last
                                          week knocked on the doors of 23 members of a gang tied to
                                          a multiple shooting at a party in December. Deputies were
                                          hand-delivering a ...




https://www.scpr.org/news/2013/06/28/37967/doj‐deputies‐at‐la‐county‐sheriff‐s‐stations‐in‐la/




                                                       3
                                           DOJ: Deputies at LA County sheriff's
                                           stations in Lancaster ...
                                           www.scpr.org

                                           Crime & Justice DOJ: Deputies at LA County sheriff's stations
                                           in Lancaster, Palmdale discriminated (Update) Los Angeles
                                           County Sheriff Lee Baca.




https://www.justice.gov/sites/default/files/crt/legacy/2013/06/28/antelope_findings_6‐28‐13.pdf



u.s. Department of Justice Civil Rights Division
www.justice.gov

-3 an African-American female candidate's campaign sign was spray-painted, "vote white." In 1997, three
white youths allegedly murdered a black man in Palmdale so that one of the youths




Thank you.



Tony Ciampi

P.O. Box 1681

Palo Alto, CA 94302

650‐444‐0316




                                                          4
                                                                          Please Contact the Clerk’s Office
                                                                              to View Additional Pages,
                                                                          Attachments, or Images Related
     CITY OF PALO ALTO OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK                                   to this Document




                                                                                    April 2, 2018
The Honorable City Council
Palo Alto, California

Independent Police Auditor's Report First Report-2017
Attached you will find the Independent Police Auditor's Report First Report-2017.


ATTACHMENTS:
   Palo Alto Police Department Report Final Part One 2017        (PDF)

Department Head: Beth Minor, City Clerk
Wells Farqo Stories                                                    [ ] Placed Before Meeting
An on line journal oT working together.
                                                                       f)a:: Received at Meeting




Environment
Wells Fargo commits $200 billion toward sustainable
financing
The company's pledge is designed to promote the shift to a low-carbon economy. More than $100 billion will go
toward financing clean technology and renewable energy projects.


Wells Fargo will provide $200 billion in financing through 2030 to   APRIL 19, 2018
businesses and projects that support the transition to a low-
carbon economy, CEO Tim Sloan announced Thursday during his          Jessica Pacek
keynote address at a CEO Investor Forum in San Francisco.

More than 50 percent of the financing will be focused on companies and projects that directly support the
transition to a low-carbon economy, including clean technologies, renewable energy, green bonds, and alternative
transportation.

The remainder of the financing will support companies and projects focused on sustainable agriculture, recycling,
conservation, and other environmentally beneficial activities.

Wells Fargo is also committing to sector-leading
transparency: providing clear communications
on wellsfargo.com about the types of
transactions that account for the $200 billion
commitment, disclosing the carbon intensity of
                                                       Supporting Environmental
its portfolio, and providing robust progress and       Sustainability
impact reporting. Additionally, Wells Fargo
plans to be more visible in the sustainable            Wells Fargo is committed to promoting environmental
financing space, engaging with sector peers and        sustainability. Through our products and services,
other organizations interested in advancing a          operations, and philanthropy, Wells Fargo is funding the
common approach to responsible, sustainable            shift to a low-carbon economy. Read more>>
finance.
"Wells Fargo is committed to taking a leadership role in supporting the transition to a low-carbon economy and
promoting environmental sustainability through our products and services, operations and culture, and
philanthropy;' Sloan said. "With this commitment, we are combining a strong financial goal with enhanced
transparency and disclosure practices that we believe will lead to sector-wide progress on responsible, sustainable
finance:·




A history of support
The announcement is another step in Wells Fargo's ongoing commitment to clean energy and renewable energy
financing. In 2015, five years early, Wells Fargo met its goal to provide $30 billion in loans and investments to
support a "greener economy" by 2020. In 2016, projects owned in whole or in part by Wells Fargo produced more
than 9 percent of all wind and solar photovoltaic energy generated in the U.S., and in 2017, the company invested
$12 billion in sustainable businesses.

Wells Fargo is also a financial services leader in sustainability within its properties. In 2017, the bank began
meeting 100 percent of its global electricity needs with renewable energy. It also met its 2020 carbon-reduction
goal of 45 percent from a 2008 baseline and made significant progress toward other sustainability goals focused
on water and energy efficiency, waste reduction, and Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design, or LEED,
certification.

The company also creates opportunities for innovators to develop ideas that promote sustainability. Wells Fargo's
award-winning Innovation Incubator - a $30 million program funded by the Wells Fargo Foundation and co-
administered by the U.S. Department of Energy's National Renewable Energy Laboratory- speeds the path to
market for promising clean technologies and entrepreneurs focused on energy efficiency and sustainability. A
signature piece of the program is the opportunity for certain technologies to beta test at certain Wells Fargo
locations on their way to the commercial marketplace.

As ffi e argest lender to the traditional en erg}'.'. se m Wells Fargo works closely w.i!b it~_Rower-g.en.eration and
fossil-fuel -Customers in tlteir own transitions to low-carbon activities and operations.

"We take an ecosystem approach to supporting clean technology:' said Mary Wenzel, head of Sustainability and
Environmental Affairs at Wells Fargo. "We work to advance new technologies by providing financing and other
services, testing and adopting new technologies within our footprint, and providing philanthropic support to
leading accelerators, incubators, and universities focused on clean technology development and
entrepreneurship:'
         M      Wells Fargo & Company Credi x                                                                                                                                                                                      Mel

~    C 0         Ii Secure             https://www.moodys.com/credit-rati~lls-Fargo-Company-credit-rati ~                                                      "(:(   J   0 Gg l9 tJ ~ C 0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
    Wells Fargo & Company                                                                                                                                          ANALYST                                          1::1
    T1cialr: WFC      Moody's Ofll 10: 580000   LEI: PBLDOEJDB5fWOL.XP3878                 Mar1<el Segment Rnanclal lnstltutlona
    lnd1111try: U.S. BANK HOLDING CO.       Domlclle· UNITED STATES                                                                                                Analyat:                  Allen Tllehler
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           j
    LONG TERM DEBT                                      SHORT TERM DEBT                                      OTHER DEBTS ON WATCH?
    Rating: A2. Not on Watch                            Rating: P·1 . Not on Watch                           No
    Type:    Senior Unsecured • Fgn Curr                Type; ConwMrdal Papet ·Dom Curr                                                                            INTERACTIVE SCORECARD                        [~;
    Outlook: Negallve                                   Date: 08 Feb 2018
    Date:    08 Fob 2018                                                                                                                                           Create scenarloe and peer benc:hmarU


        ~ _j                            j                                              _ _ _ _~--------
    r                     R8tlnge             Fantn,Tr9e
     Rlltlng Claa Oelall ! Debi LJst I Issuer OUt1ook
                                                                '          llubt81gllllhl
                                                                                                                                                       j,.-Scorwcard
                                                                                                                                                           - - -a-.j(         Export [CSVJ     1      Reauhll: 16

      Claa.o.                                                                      RMlng                            Indicator   Rating Action                                 on                    Outlook
      LT lasue< Rating                                                             A2                                           RATING AFFIRMATION                            Oii Fab 2018          Negatlva
      Senior Uneecurod (Foreign)
      Senior Unsecurad (Domosllc)
      Senior Unsoc. Sholl (Domosllc)
      Senior Unsecured MTN (Foreign)
                                                                                   A2
                                                                                   A2
                                                                                   (P)A2
                                                                                   (P)A2
                                                                                                               t-
                                                                                                                                RATING AFFIRMATION
                                                                                                                                RATING AFFIRMATION
                                                                                                                                RATING AFFIRMATION
                                                                                                                                RATING AFFIRMATION
                                                                                                                                                                              08 Fab2018
                                                                                                                                                                              06 Feb2018
                                                                                                                                                                              08 Feb2018
                                                                                                                                                                              08 Fob2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                I~
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Nogatiw     I
      Senior Unsecured MTN (Domesllc)                                              (P)A2                       I                RATING AFFIRMATION                            OB Fob2018
      Subordinate (Foreign)
                                                                    - ..   --      A3
                                                                                              -
                                                                                                         •
                                                                                                               I           ~TING        AFFIRMATION                           OB Feb2018




                                                                                                                                                                                                               °'
        Rating Class History: LT Issuer RaUng




           Aa,]
                                                                                   .1--             ~                      -~
           Aa3


            A2
                         •                     •• • T
                                                                                                                                ---·...i                   •              •             •••
                 1994        1996           1996         2000               2002   2004           2006              2008         2010           2012        2014              2016           2018        2020

                                                                                                                                                                                        Export Reautts: 18

        Dato             Curroncy                  Rating                                  Rating Action
        08 Fab2018                                 A2                                      RATING AFFIRMATION
        24 May2017                                 A2                                      RATING AFFIRMATION
21AUG2018

Good morning Liz,

Good seeing you at last night's Palo Alto City Council meeting.

During the Nobu Restaurant project discussion, several references had been made to the
existing Epiphany Hotel building.

When the question about the tile was being discussed, I was thinking the Council was referring
to the existing tile depicting the large tree mural on the exterior wall on the Epiphany Hotel
building, which is not listed as a City of Palo Alto Historic Resource.

After last night's meeting while walking home past the Epiphany Hotel building, I then realized
the Council was referencing the other adjacent building next to the Nobu Restaurant project.
That adjacent building, which housed the former Bijou Theater, is listed as a Category Three
City of Palo Alto Historic Resource. The existing terra cotta tile on that building is identified as
part of the important historic fabric of that Resource that warrants protection from damage
during the course of construction of the Nobu Restaurant project.

Please feel free to give me a call if you have any questions.

Best,   Martin~~
MARTIN BERNSTEIN ARCHITECT
Palo Alto San Francisco
650.387 .1000




                     3~1:l:JO S.J:l3!J'tN't~ All:J
                             031d3J3H

                    f 1 =c Wd     1 z~nv 81 oz                     90 :£ wd 1i ~nv e1
                                                                     331.:!.:W s.~U313 All:J
                                                                   'VO 'Oll'V 01\"fd jQ All~
                                                                        /i.~lJ-
                                                                           ;...iO ~\)
                                                                        · -\       n
                                                                        ·~,u            •,
     ClTY OF PALO ALTO. CA                                                         ~v
                                                                                      ~I
                                                                                .::..•· ':/
                                                                                •;.,--·
      CITY CLERK'S OFFICE                940 Los Robles Avenue
      18 AUG 21 PH I : 45                Palo Alto California 943~\8   ~UG 21 PM \: 41
                                         21 August 2018                       ,.
                                                                           RECf-1\J t:. 0
                                                                    cnY H~HAGER'S OFFICE


The Honorable Liz Kniss, Mayor of Palo Alto
250 Hamilton Avenue
Palo Alto California 94301

Dear Ms Kniss,

      This is a follow-on to my earlier letter, dated 01 May, regarding the con -
crete cap on top of the sewer lateral at 940 Los Robles Avenue.

      In that letter I noted that sometime in the 2000s the City of Palo Alto had
placed concrete caps on top of sewer laterals along Barron Creek, that during
the past winter the concrete cap in front of 940 Los Robles Avenue had cracked,
and that the lateral therefore appeared to be in need of repair, and I asked if
you would route this information to the appropriate City department for action.

       Sometime over the summer the crack has become slightly displaced,
with one side now slightly higher than the other, and a portion of the concrete
cap has broken off on the downstream edge of the cap. The cap itself is not
fully in contact with the ground beneath it; in places it is more like a bridge,
with spaces below that allow water to run freely under it. Rather than protect -
ing the sewer lateral, the cap will force water downward onto the soil covering
the lateral.

      I believe the cap is the main cause of the erosion affecting the creek bed
and the creek bank at the site. The cap creates a waterfall causing vigorous
scouring of the ground and banks below it. The Los Robles Avenue bank is
already severely undereaten. The concrete cap on the next lateral downstream
shows the same kind of decay and erosion.

     Could you please bring this additional information to the attention of the
appropriate City department for repairs and remediation?

Thank you.

                                         Sincerely,


                                          fl.),J,)~
                                         Randolph G Scarborough
               CITY OF PALO ALTO. CA
               CITY CLERK'S OFFICE
                                                  /537 01-i'Ui. ~
               18 AUG 3 I AH 9: 37               'lil~ &t£   a  f'/-..?e

ItIf ~nl;/ ;Jufflkta, .'
         Jh,e_ ~ ~n-;- ~                        L..qtti y;,t~    db
     j ,du,       p~ /7131- ~ -t¢/Jtl ~~                "'   ~
     (it,. ,   /U11t11'l~/rn<- ~       ~ µ1~1/.d~            1
tlu <!l!M1ULL- U/z~ - ~ /)lne /
 I fi.v l4tluti0 ~ /S ~¥£ . ,ihrur U4U
" ~/#«> Pit~ /nr U1-~ ~
du,~ MCI<- ,dtL_ ~ ~ ~ ~ tL/.Leily.i
~~ ~l'r.t-1·~~-~~ r
;tla J?ttb          aa      (!tr.
         JJt~ ,:cb ~tJ;n-D ~~-ii
~                 ;tfti1 Ptt4'71 "1      "-~GO a-nL ,,,,,;-
 )'k&Mtai#I-              ~ ~t~ IL~-f ~fit-~
     i
  ~ 10 ~ ~/'}<£,./,.
 ti"fi; f!tUnt~ /~ ~ t!/ub d£u,~,.
~ J-h- e11n-IYA-t,-{ ii /la ~7
                            /2ffhtu ;Qui,:1'~:1uJ1e5 ~
                                              f/#.4.L1l'f , ; ,
~
it; 7h
                  ';/   /tlUl't~ [t!frl ,Ylrk-iki -- p1..l/rrou~ld/fttt1Vi
                 t!.!Zf ~- ,                           7 ...
                                     ,         ~             µv/te~
