            DOCUMENTS IN THIS PACKET INCLUDE:


                LETTERS FROM CITIZENS TO THE
                   MAYOR OR CITY COUNCIL


    RESPONSES FROM STAFF TO LETTERS FROM CITIZENS


        ITEMS FROM MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS


      ITEMS FROM OTHER COMMITTEES AND AGENCIES


ITEMS FROM CITY, COUNTY, STATE, AND REGIONAL AGENCIES




     Prepared for:          01/07/2019
      Document dates: 12/19/2018 – 12/26/2018

                                Set 1
 Note: Documents for every category may not have been received for packet
                      reproduction in a given week.




                                                                      701-32
Carnahan, David

From:               Eggleston, Brad
Sent:               Friday, December 21, 2018 3:19 PM
To:                 Council, City
Cc:                 Keene, James; Shikada, Ed; De Geus, Robert
Subject:            Caltrain Electrification Agreement (PCEP) concerns


Dear Councilmembers,

On behalf of City Manager Jim Keene, I am writing to provide some information on three concerns that have been raised
by Californians Advocating Responsible Rail Design about the Caltrain Peninsula Corridor Electrification Project.

   1. Staging Areas
      There is a concern that trees and shrubs in the designated staging areas in Caltrain’s right‐of‐way may be
      removed, and that storage of materials in these areas may be permanent. Caltrain staff have stated that there
      are no current plans to remove trees or shrubs in the staging areas, and that all staging areas are temporary.

   2. Historic Bridge Over San Francisquito Creek
      The EIR includes a mitigation measure that prescribes the method for suspending and grounding power cables
      within the bridge. No part of the structure may be removed, and the brackets must be removable with no
      permanent modifications. Drilling for grounding bracket attachments is limited to eight 5/8‐inch holes. Caltrain
      staff have confirmed that the design is following this mitigation measure.

   3. Pole Types and Pole Placement
      Palo Alto staff have asked Caltrain for information about the feasibility and costs of using single center poles,
      rather than dual outside poles. Caltrain staff have committed to provide this information in the coming weeks,
      but have also stated that the City would be responsible for additional costs of this approach.

I hope this information is helpful. Per the discussion about the consent calendar item at Monday’s Council meeting,
please send me any comments you may have.

Best regards, and Happy Holidays.

Brad


             Brad Eggleston | Director of Public Works
             250 Hamilton Avenue | Palo Alto, CA 94301
             D: 650.329.2636 | E: Brad.Eggleston@cityofpaloalto.org




                                                           1
Carnahan, David

From:                Chris Robell <chris_robell@yahoo.com>
Sent:                Wednesday, December 19, 2018 2:25 PM
To:                  Architectural Review Board
Cc:                  Council, City; Clerk, City
Subject:             Cell tower equipment installation location


Dear ARB,

I understand that Verizon is trying to convince you and perhaps others that citizens desire to have ancillary cell tower
equipment installed on telephone or utility poles as opposed to under grounding. I don’t know how they would ever
come to that conclusion, but I can tell you that our city is beautiful and we should be doing everything possible to keep it
that way and therefore DENY any request to attach equipment to poles.

I am sure there is a way that Verizon can install equipment underground in a way that is safer, quiet, and adhering to the
aesthetics. Please do not let the camel’s nose under the tent and allow Verizon to install above ground equipment just
so they can save money and execute their strategy in the cheapest way possible. And by all means, I hope that the city
would not trust Verizon or its “experts”. This is a precedent setting decision that paves the way for all telecom
companies who will undoubtedly want to do the same thing. Send a message to all of them that our residents expect
and deserve better.

Aside from people who are conflicted with some sort of direct or indirect economic interest with the telecom industry,
no resident I know of or can even think of would EVER agree that above ground equipment is the way to go.

Thank you for all the work you to do keep our city safe and beautiful.

Chris Robell
Old Palo Alto resident
(650) 245‐7395




                                                             1
Carnahan, David

From:                 Paul Minsker <minskerpaul@gmail.com>
Sent:                 Sunday, December 23, 2018 7:28 AM
To:                   Council, City
Subject:              Challenger Memorial Grove


Dear sir / madam‐‐

Before anything further, please allow for me to take a moment to thank your members for hearing me out recently via
an email in which I expressed concerns about the El Palo Alto tree and the recent run‐ins with litter and issues of the
sort. It means a lot to me that my observations of the tree that gave the city its name were valued and considered.

That stated, as a second suggestion to your city, though, if I may, regarding not El Palo Alto Park but Peers Park instead,
there is a stand of Redwood trees in the rear section of the park known as the Challenger Memorial Grove that I hope
many are aware of, and the plaque beside these trees decreeing their significance is so highly faded, weathered, and
barely readable that I might find it a possibility for the city to consider replacing it at some soon future time. Doing such,
as far as I can tell, might help to increase awareness of their history and of the city's history as relates to the country and
the world.

Thank you for your time. Be well.

‐Paul Minsker




                                                               1
Carnahan, David

From:               j <judd2003-1@yahoo.com>
Sent:               Sunday, December 23, 2018 12:32 AM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            childcare during holidays for 1 year old and 3 year old


Both children are in childcare, at different establishments, and the establishments go on holidays regularly, and offer
no care. What is available in or near Redwood city to bridge the holiday time for such children please

Many thanks,




Judith




                                                            1
Carnahan, David

From:                 Daniel Martin <danleemartin@gmail.com>
Sent:                 Monday, December 24, 2018 4:05 PM
To:                   Council, City
Cc:                   Tim Sheeper; LeBlanc, Jazmin; customerservice@menloswim.com; Douglas, Stephanie; Eva, Sharon
Subject:              Contractor providing Rinconada swim services


City council:

This is a complaint regarding services provided by the swimming contractor.

1. The published schedule is not updated

Today 12/24/2018 the pool is listed on schedule as open for lap swim

Mon/Wed/Fri            10:30am – 3:30pm & 6:30pm – 8:30pm

I went at 3:05, and the staff tells me that it is closed at 3, and not open in the evening hours.

It is understandable that Christmas Eve hours are different, but this should be listed on the schedule. It is not posted
anywhere on the website. Please require the contractor post accurate pool hours. This should be a prerequisite of
having the pool contract.



2. On the website there is no way to email the contractor. This should be listed on the website and schedule. The
email addresses used above are from years‐old communications.

The main purpose of the pool is still to serve the interests of the Palo Alto residents, not the serve the convenience of
the contractor.


Daniel Martin
1157 Harker Ave
danleemartin@gmail.com
650 867 0367




                                                              1
Carnahan, David

From:                 Mark Cox <markdarrellcox@outlook.com>
Sent:                 Monday, December 24, 2018 9:20 PM
To:                   Council, City
Subject:              Exposé


This is Erin Sienna Jobs




[:;]

Howard Stern is the brother of Steve Jobs. Their real names in 1972 were Mike Laird and Jeff Laird of Pamela Crest,
Redlands California.

Do you see Howard dying of cancer?

Yet the claim is that cancer ravages the lineage of Jeff (Steve). This is a joke. They don’t even know his real age. Jeff
skipped out on 10th Grade in 1976 to form Apple Computer.

These guys were my neighbors and I would spend the night at their house.

I was in the Second Grade in 1972 and was held back, so the age difference between Jeff and myself weren’t as extreme
as you would assume. We rode bikes together, and ate a neghbors pomegranates.
                                                               1
Jeff married my cousin, Kelly Jean Leary. Kelly played the same game on Jeff that Jeff played on the world. She convinced
Jeff she is older. Kelly was born February 19th 1973 in California. Her brother Jon C Leary didn’t really die April 6th 1977
of 26 stab wounds in Redlands. This “murder” was staged and faked even though I was the pall bearer to a closed casket
at the age of 13. Jonny is Brian Schrier of Task Rabbit and Jonny is the brother of Lauren Powell Jobs and Brad Powell
who is really Noel Leary, the younger brother of Jonny. Remember Timothy Leary? Where did the ‘O’ go? O, some
members of lineage tore it off in the Chicago area as they altered their minds in the Chicago area high on the addictive
influence of membership to organized an crime group which are always cultic. How bad can Cults be? Look no further
than Organized Crime Groups. The “Professionals” are full fledged cults.

So Turn On, Tune In, and Drop “In” if you want to begin to use perception.

Ron Tomczak of El Cajon is Jon Leary, father to Jonny (Brian), Noel (Brad), Kelly (Lauren), and the Grandfather to Reed
Jobs and Eve Jobs. Erin Jobs is likely the cousin to Reed and Eve. This would mean Erin is the daughter of the cousin Max
Travis Leary, born to Mike Leary the Brother of Jon Leary and the Uncle of Kelly Jean Leary aka Lauren Powell Jobs, and
Max Travis Leary is currently a Registered Sex Offender in Illinois whose victim was Three Years Old yet Travis has been
working as Father Dean at the Church of Assumption a Greek Orthodox Church in Seattle on 13th Avenue for Twelve
Years. Yet neither the Greek Orthodox Church, the Seattle Police, nor the Seattle Sheriff’s Office has the slightest
concern about this. The mother of Travis is Rachel who was/is of Greek Descent and maybe it’s through her father that
Travis inherited his genetic hairloss. Jonny at 14 is very close in appearance to Kelly (Lauren) today than Jonny does
today as Brian Schrier of Task Rabbit because the Y chromosome upon maturity differentiated Jonny to look more like
his father and you can see this same affect by degree upon Reed as Reed matures. Of course, you would have to know
what Erin Sienna Jobs looks like to access what I’m saying, so therefore I’m including her photo here. As to potential hair
loss of her children, this would depend on the pattern of hair retention of the father of whomever her mother is.

Erin and Eve have similar apparence through their Great Grandmother Emma Hibbard the mother of Cynthia Leary
Sproul, Jon Leary, Mike Leary.

Emma married Max Leary after abandoning my father in Liverpool and her death as Julie was staged and faked. Mimi
raised my father while Emma returned to the US and gave birth to Cyntha Leary who later gave birth to “Sunshine” Chris
Sproul who grew up to become “Sunny” Adrienne Sudweeks. Max Leary died in 1996 and Sunny was strangled in 1997
on February 23 at the age of 26 while expecting money. The Costa Mesa Police in 2017 released two photos of one
suspect of the murderer of Sunny but their story is false. These two photos are of two different people and the photo of
the older person in the bluish cast is a former coworker of mine who was later crippled and was physically unable to kill
anyone, much less stop Sunny from bellowing for Sunny knew who to yelled at me as often enough to know Sunny knew
how to make herself heard. Reed Jobs, Erin Sienna Jobs, and Eve Jobs are my Half Cousin’s Once Removed, and we share
Emma Hibbard in our lineage.

Lauren Powell Jobs is my Half Cousin born as Kelly Jean Leary, as is her literal brother Brad Powell born Noel Leary. They
are members of the Irish Mafia whose taproot is reaching deep through American society in preparation for the Second
Dip of the Double Dip to take place in AD 2026.




                                                             2
Carnahan, David

From:                Heidi Yauman <heidi.yauman@icloud.com>
Sent:                Thursday, December 20, 2018 5:45 PM
To:                  Council, City


dear city council my I am heidi yauman and i live in Palo Alto I used to live in San Jose in the terrible markham plaza
attacks google me to learn about me i cant change what happened to me but maybe I can stop it from happening to
someon e else and you can too because someday you might be on the state legislature and you can make laws to
protect people from fraud when bobby was murdered and if you make a law please call it Heidi’s law named after me
and i hope you have a merry Christmas and happy new year from Heidi Yauman




                                                            1
Carnahan, David

From:                Herc Kwan <herc.kwan@gmail.com>
Sent:                Wednesday, December 19, 2018 5:48 PM
To:                  Architectural Review Board
Cc:                  Council, City; Clerk, City
Subject:             No ancillary cell-tower equipment mounted on poles


Dear Chair Furth, Vice‐Chair Baltay, Mr. Gooyer, Mr. Lew & Ms. Thompson,

I hope you have been doing well. As a resident of Palo Alto who lives right next to a pole that is scheduled to have some
ugly cell tower equipment forcibly and unreasonably installed in the near future and as someone who has objected to
this idea before, I am writing to urge the ARB to realize that we DO NOT want pole‐mounted ancillary cell‐tower
equipment in Palo Alto.

My wife, two young daughters, and I attended all the hearings for Cluster 1 before and will continue to object to
installation of these ugly and noisy equipment on poles across Palo Alto. We should NOT let these telecom companies
get away with their subtle plans at the expense of city aesthetics and neighborhood beauty and harmony.

We urge you to reject pole‐mounted ancillary cell‐tower equipment suggested by the telecom industry.

Thank you for your attention.

Herc Kwan, Ph.D.
Residents, 2490 Louis Rd
Home: (650) 843‐0852




                                                            1
Carnahan, David

From:                  Stump, Molly
Sent:                  Thursday, December 20, 2018 1:53 PM
To:                    Jeanne Fleming
Cc:                    Council, City; Clerk, City; 'James Sutton'
Subject:               RE: Demand for Reconsideration of City Council Vote on Verizon Cell Tower Applications


Hello Dr. Fleming,

Thank you for your correspondence. Reconsideration of the May 2018 decisions is not appropriate or available for the
following reasons.

First, the request for reconsideration is based on an allegation that former CIO Jonathan Reichental influenced the City’s
decisions in violation of the Political Reform Act. In fact, Mr. Reichental did not participate in the City’s decision making
on these matters.

Second, the City’s approval of the wireless applications has vested, which means that the City no longer has the
authority to modify or reverse its determinations.

Please confer with your attorney (copied on this thread) regarding any further questions or concerns.

Respectfully,
Molly Stump

                Molly Stump | City Attorney
                City Attorney’s Office
                250 Hamilton Avenue | Palo Alto, CA 94301
                D: 650.329.2171 | E:molly.stump@cityofpaloalto.org

                Please think of the environment before printing this email – Thank you.

                This message contains information that may be confidential and
                privileged. Unless you are the addressee, you may not use, copy or disclose
                the message or any information contained in the message. If you received the
                message in error, please notify the sender and delete the message.



From: Jeanne Fleming <jfleming@metricus.net>
Sent: Monday, December 10, 2018 9:37 AM
To: Stump, Molly <Molly.Stump@CityofPaloAlto.org>
Cc: Council, City <city.council@cityofpaloalto.org>; Clerk, City <city.clerk@cityofpaloalto.org>; 'James Sutton'
<jsutton@campaignlawyers.com>
Subject: Demand for Reconsideration of City Council Vote on Verizon Cell Tower Applications

Via Email Correspondence


                                                              1
Molly Stump, Esq.
City of Palo Alto City Attorney
250 Hamilton Ave.
Palo Alto, CA 94301

       RE:     Demand for Reconsideration of City Council Vote on Verizon Cell Tower Applications


Dear Ms. Stump:


This letter demands that the City Council reconsider its May 21, 2018 decision to deny my appeal of

the Planning Department’s prior approval of eleven permits to install Verizon cellular telephone towers

in residential neighborhoods (see 5/21/18 Council Agenda Item #6) because this City decision may

have been tainted by a conflict of interest and illegal “gifts.”



As you certainly are aware, CTO Jonathan Reichental has come under severe scrutiny recently for

accepting free trips and fees from the telecommunications industry and for not properly disclosing

those “gifts” and this income on his annual financial disclosure statements (FPPC Form 700). After

accepting these over-the-limit gifts and undisclosed fees from the telecommunications industry, he then

evidently used his official position as Palo Alto’s CTO to influence City decisions on

telecommunications issues on behalf of telecommunications companies – most likely including the

decision of the Planning Department and City Council to approve Vinculums/Verizon’s first round of

applications to install in residential neighborhoods cell towers with hundreds of pounds of ancillary

equipment located aboveground. In fact, the California Fair Political Practices Commission (“FPPC”)

is currently investigating whether Mr. Reichental violated the disclosure and disqualification provisions

of the ethics laws. If found in violation of these laws, he could face fines of thousands of dollars.




                                                      2
As the City’s Chief Technology Officer, Mr. Reichental is clearly aware of, and involved in, all City

decisions involving wireless communications, cellular telephone towers, etc. In particular, Mr.

Reichental leads the multi-department Connected Cities working group. This group continually

oversees telecommunications projects in the City, including—according to the Connected Cities

meeting agendas and minutes—overseeing Verizon’s applications to install cell towers. In fact, one of

Mr. Reichental’s juniors on his Connected Cities group—the Utilities Department’s Jim Fleming (no

relation to me)—advised City Council regarding the Verizon applications at the May 21, 2018, appeals

hearing. Moreover, Mr. Reichental sits on the Joint Venture Silicon Valley Wireless Communications

Initiative Committee, which submitted a brief opposing my appeal of the Planning Department’s

decision. (Joint Venture Silicon Valley receives financial support from AT&T, Crown Castle and

Verizon, all of whom have submitted applications to the City of Palo Alto to install cell towers.) It is

therefore very likely that Mr. Reichental “used his official position to influence” the decision, in

violation of the law. (See Cal. Govt. Code section 87103.)



Reconsidering the decision and giving the public and the City Council the opportunity to discuss

whether Mr. Reichental’s transgressions warrant a change in the decision is clearly appropriate under

these circumstances. In fact, a new hearing on the appeal is warranted in order to protect my due

process rights as an appellant. (See Clark v. City of Hermosa Beach (1996) 48 Cal. App. 4th 1152

[party was deprived a fair hearing because city official was unable to exercise “disinterested skill, zeal

and diligence” due to his personal interest in decision].) Moreover, the law clearly states that a City

Council decision can be overturned based on the improper involvement of a City employee who hid his

personal financial interest in the decision. (Cal. Govt. Code section 91003(b).)




                                                     3
In sum, Mr. Reichental’s possible acceptance of over-the-limit gifts and undisclosed fees from the

telecommunications industry may have tainted the City’s review of the Vinculums/Verizon

applications and therefore warrants reconsideration by the City Council. Thank you for your prompt

response to this request.



Sincerely,


Jeanne Fleming

cc:    James R. Sutton, Esq.
       Sutton Law Firm


Jeanne Fleming, PhD
JFleming@Metricus.net
650-325-5151
Post Office Box 60399
Palo Alto, CA 94306




                                                   4
&DUQDKDQ'DYLG

)URP               ,TEDO6HUDQJLTEDOVHUDQJ#JPDLOFRP!
6HQW               )ULGD\'HFHPEHU30
7R                 &RXQFLO&LW\
&F                 LTEDOVHUDQJDUFKLWHFW#JPDLOFRP(PDLONDRNDUHQ#JPDLOFRP.DWMD6HUDQJMHII#OHYLQVN\RUJ
6XEMHFW            5HTXHVWIURP'HQQLV%DFNOXQGDQG,TEDO6HUDQJWHQDQWVVWLOODW+RWHO3UHVLGHQW$SWV'HF
$WWDFKPHQWV        ,0*BBB%8567MSJ


,ĞůůŽDĂǇŽƌ<ŶŝƐƐĂŶĚŽƵŶĐŝůŵĞŵďĞƌƐ͖/ĂŵĨŽƌǁĂƌĚŝŶŐƚŚŝƐƵƌŐĞŶƚƌĞƋƵĞƐƚůĞƚƚĞƌƚŽǇŽƵĂůůĂƐǁƌŝƚƚĞŶďǇĞŶŶŝƐ
ĂĐŬůƵŶĚĂŶĚŵǇƐĞůĨ͕ƚŽƚƌǇĂŶĚŐĞƚĂŶĞǆƚĞŶƐŝŽŶďĞǇŽŶĚƚŚĞ:ĂŶƵĂƌǇϯϭƐƚĚĞĂĚůŝŶĞƚŽǀĂĐĂƚĞΗdŚĞ,ŽƚĞůWƌĞƐŝĚĞŶƚ͕ΗƚŽ
ĂƚůĞĂƐƚƚŚĞĞŶĚŽĨ:ƵŶĞϯϬƚŚ͕ĨƌŽŵ:ĂƉŝƚĂůĂƐŝƚƐƚĂŶĚƐƚŽĚĂǇ͘
^ŽƚŚĂƚǁĞƌĞŵĂŝŶŝŶŐƌĞŶƚĞƌƐ͕ĂŶĚƐŽŵĞƐĞŶŝŽƌƐĂŶĚƐŝŶŐůĞƉĂƌĞŶƚƐǁŚŽĂƌĞůĞĨƚ͕ĐĂŶĨŝŶĚĂĚĞƋƵĂƚĞƐƵďƐƚŝƚƵƚĞůŽĚŐŝŶŐŝŶ
WĂůŽůƚŽ͕ǁŚŝůĞ:ΖƐƉƌŽƐƉĞĐƚƐĨŽƌĂŶĞǁĂŶĚƌĞĚĞƐŝŐŶĞĚƉƌŽũĞĐƚŐŽĞƐƚŚƌŽƵŐŚƚŚĞĐŝƚǇƉĞƌŵŝƚĂƉƉƌŽǀĂůƐƉƌŽĐĞƐƐ͘dŚĞ
:ƵŶĞĚĂƚĞǁĂƐĚŝƐĐƵƐƐĞĚĂŶĚĂŐƌĞĞĚƚŽĂƚŽŶĞƉŽŝŶƚ͕ďƵƚŚĂƐďĞĞŶǁŝƚŚĚƌĂǁŶŶŽǁĚƵĞƚŽƵŶĞǆƉůĂŝŶĞĚĐŝƌĐƵŵƐƚĂŶĐĞƐ͘
tĞďĞůŝĞǀĞƚŚĞ:ƵŶĞĚĂƚĞǁĂƐĐƌƵĐŝĂůďĞĐĂƵƐĞŽĨƚŚĞĞǆŝƐƚŝŶŐWDKƌĚŝŶĂŶĐĞƌĞƋƵŝƌŝŶŐĂŽŶĞǇĞĂƌůĞĂƐĞŶĞĞĚĞĚƚŽďĞ
ŽĨĨĞƌĞĚƚŽĂůůƚĞŶĂŶƚƐĂƐĂŶŽƉƚŝŽŶĂůĂƉƉƌŽĂĐŚƚŽƚŚĞĐƵƌƌĞŶƚŵŽŶƚŚůǇƌĞŶƚĂůĂƌƌĂŶŐŵĞŶƚƐ͕ĂƐǁĞǁĞƌĞŵŝƐƚĂŬĞŶůǇŐŝǀĞŶ
ƚŽĨŽůůŽǁ͘
dŚĞƌĞĨŽƌĞ͕ǁĞŝŵŵĞŶƐĞůǇĂƉƉƌĞĐŝĂƚĞǇŽƵƌƌĞĂĚŝŶŐŽĨƚŚĞĂƚƚĂĐŚĞĚůĞƚƚĞƌ͕ĂŶĚĂůůǇŽƵƌĂƚƚĞŵƉƚƐĂƚŚĞůƉŝŶŐƵƐ͕
ĚĞƐƉĞƌĂƚĞůǇŶĞĞĚǇĐŝƚŝǌĞŶƐŽĨWĂůŽůƚŽ͕ĂŶĚůŽŶŐƐƚĂŶĚŝŶŐƚĞŶĂŶƚƐŽĨƚŚĞ,ŝƐƚŽƌŝĐ,ŽƚĞůWƌĞƐŝĚĞŶƚƉĂƌƚŵĞŶƚƐ͘

dŚĂŶŬzŽƵ^ŝŶĐĞƌĞůǇ͕

ĞŶŶŝƐĂĐŬůƵŶĚ͕ĂŶĚ
/ƋďĂů^ĞƌĂŶŐ͘




                                                           
Carnahan, David

From:               Jeffrey Peters <jeffreypeters@sbcglobal.net>
Sent:               Wednesday, December 19, 2018 2:49 PM
To:                 Atkinson, Rebecca
Cc:                 Council, City; Architectural Review Board
Subject:            Support for Wireless on Dec 20th


Dear ARB Members,

I support improved wireless coverage in Palo Alto and the items on the Dec 20th ARB Agenda as proposed with
equipment mounted on polls. Please approve!!!

Vaulting requires violating the City's noise ordinance with fans and pumps, removing trees and landscaping and digging
up the streets which causes traffic interruptions, dust, and more noise nuisance.

I would like to add that I am writing this message from a friend’s house, in a forest in Chilean Patagonia. They have
neighbors, but the neighbors live far enough away that I can’t see their houses, or any other man‐made structure, from
the porch I am sitting on. Yet I have better cellular service here than I currently do at my home in Palo Alto. That’s
ridiculous! Please help bring first‐world cellular service to Palo Alto.

Thanks,

Jeffrey Peters & Viviana Mur
990 Loma Verde Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94303




                                                           1
Carnahan, David

From:             JIM POPPY <jamespoppy@comcast.net>
Sent:             Thursday, December 20, 2018 11:07 AM
To:               Council, City
Subject:          Thank you for your service



Hello City Council,

Happy holidays, and thank you very much for all your hard work. While I don't always agree with your
decisions, I am very grateful for your service and dedication



With the reduction of the council to 7 members, it will probably be more work for you. You should
explore allowing citizens to fill liaison roles for you when possible, as has been suggested.



Regards,

Jim Poppy

135 Melville Avenue




                                                    1
Carnahan, David

From:                Amy Kacher <amyewardwell@yahoo.com>
Sent:                Thursday, December 20, 2018 4:09 PM
To:                  Council, City
Cc:                  oliqer.christy@qene.com; crescent-park-pa@qooqleqroups.com
Subject:             Traffic. Thursday 12/20/18 4pm crescent park



Traffic backed up a w hole block on Crescent out to Un iversity.




                                                                                            I
                                                                      I I




                                                                                I
                                                                            I
                                                                       I                    /
                                                                                        /
                                                                                    I
                                                                                                '
Carnahan, David

From:                Francesca Kautz <dfkautz@pacbell.net>
Sent:                Wednesday, December 19, 2018 1:09 PM
To:                  Architectural Review Board
Cc:                  Council, City; Clerk, City
Subject:             Verizon letter-writing campaign


Dear Chair Furth, Vice‐Chair Baltay, Mr. Gooyer, Mr. Lew and Ms. Thompson,

It has just come to my attention that Verizon is orchestrating a letter‐writing campaign claiming that Palo Altans prefer
pole‐mounted ancillary equipment. I am writing this letter to express my concern at this last minute attempt to thwart
our efforts to keep Verizon’s ugly, noisy and dangerous equipment out of our residential neighborhoods. I think the
Verizon equipment should go underground or be located on commercial, industrial, city owned properties or utility
substations. This, of course, costs Verizon more money and they don’t want to do it, despite being the second largest
multinational telecommunications technology company in the world.

I am also in agreement with Council member Lydia Kou who isn’t convinced there is a problem with cell coverage in the
city and is concerned about the blight in front of residents’ homes. (Mercury News, December 1, 2018). Verizon is
shoving these cell antennas into our neighborhoods for future 5G use, which will allow people driving through our
neighborhoods to be even more distracted. This cannot be safe for Palo Alto citizens.

Palo Alto should halt the installation of cell towers in residential neighborhoods like Sebastopol did in May of 2018. City
council members heard a series of public comments about the possible health effects of the cell towers, with opponents
urging the city council to declare a moratorium on telecommunications applications until further research was
completed. “The proposed towers would add unsightly equipment, overload poles, devalue property, and increase radio
frequency radiation in our neighborhoods” according to the EMF Safety Network. Verizon withdrew its application.

Please keep the cell towers out of our residential neighborhoods and support the reversal of the earlier decision to allow
11 cell towers in the Cluster 1 area.

Thank you,

Francesca Kautz




                                                             1
Carnahan, David

From:                Annette Fazzino <annette.fazzino@gmail.com>
Sent:                Wednesday, December 19, 2018 4:00 PM
To:                  Architectural Review Board
Cc:                  Council, City; Clerk, City
Subject:             Yikes! Verizon is at it again!


Dear Chair Furth, Vice Chair Baltay, Mr. Gooyer, Mr. Lew, and Ms. Thompson:

Verizon will do anything to save their money at Palo Altans expense, so it appears. There's a letter‐writing campaign
afoot instigated by them saying that people actually want noisy, heavy, unattractive equipment perched on poles right
next to residences! What??? That's just crazy.

We all want cell service. We all want it done correctly. No one who lives in our neighborhoods and is close to the
situation wants pole mounted equipment when undergrounding it will reduce noise, improve aesthetics, and help
maintain our property values.

Please be cautious when you review requests from Verizon and their fellow telecoms. They want pole mounted
equipment because they save money installing it that way. They don't care about our community. Please support those
of us who live in Palo Alto and care about the long‐term effects of our special city. Many communities are standing up to
Verizon and the telecoms and requiring undergrounding to preserve the beauty, peace, and property values in their
cities. Verizon wants to save money. That is the bottom line.

Let's keep Palo Alto beautiful and maintain our quality of life here.

Thank you for your consideration.

Very truly yours,

Annette Evans Fazzino
annette.fazzino@gmail.com
650.799.7414




                                                              1
