            DOCUMENTS IN THIS PACKET INCLUDE:


                LETTERS FROM CITIZENS TO THE
                   MAYOR OR CITY COUNCIL


    RESPONSES FROM STAFF TO LETTERS FROM CITIZENS


        ITEMS FROM MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS


      ITEMS FROM OTHER COMMITTEES AND AGENCIES


ITEMS FROM CITY, COUNTY, STATE, AND REGIONAL AGENCIES




     Prepared for:          12/03/2018
      Document dates: 11/14/2018 – 11/20/2018

                                Set 1
 Note: Documents for every category may not have been received for packet
                      reproduction in a given week.




                                                                      701-32
                                                                                     COUNCIL MEETING
                                                                                             11/19/2018
                                                                                         Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                                     2
Carnahan, David
                                                                                     ✔




From:                Bob Wenzlau <bob@wenzlau.net>
Sent:                Monday, November 19, 2018 2:05 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Nov 19 - Item 2 - Recycled Water Study Session


Honorable Council members,

I wish to applaud the foresight to consider opportunities associated with recycled water.

My own choice would be the Non Potable Reuse option, and consideration of the Indirect Potable Reuse. The
"consideration" of the Indirect Potable would only be toward management of an saltwater intrusion by injecting at the
interface of the fresh water wedge as it encounters the bay. I am not yet comfortable with treatment and removal of
medical residues and other synthetic chemicals.

In making policy choices, it would have been helpful to see a chart with relative flow between residential, business and
public ‐ with the outdoor / indoor proportion. The strategy presentations appears to skip our residential sector ‐ yet the
lack of service to the residential sector "skips" the citizens of Palo Alto.

I look forward to more information as to how to develop Non Potable Reuse. In my own crystal ball, I could foresee
autonomous water vehicles in 5 years capable at night time of filling neighborhood cisterns where from irrigation water
could then be pumped. Can we look for alternative other than piping for transport of reclaimed water.

I am not a supporter of the Regional approach. I am a proponent of localism whereby our infrastructure is not always
bound into a regional grid, and therefore vulnerable to natural disaster and a greater carbon footprint. (Our waste
management is regionalized, and forms a large carbon footprint as organic and inorganic residues are transported across
the state/globe.) I agree with Staff that the Regional approach limits our options in local Non Potable Reuse, and as
such would not want to steer the strategy that direction.

I appreciate that one of the great indirect benefits is the chance to use less of the Hetch Hetchy allocation and as such
allow our natural river system to benefit from greater flow.

Thank you for the chance to offer some input.

Bob


‐‐

Bob Wenzlau
bob@wenzlau.net
650‐248‐4467




                                                             1
                                                                                   COUNCIL MEETING

                                                                                   ✔
                                                                                           11/19/2018
                                                                                       Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                                 2
Carnahan, David

From:                  Claire Elliott <clairee44@gmail.com>
Sent:                  Monday, November 19, 2018 4:36 PM
To:                    Council, City
Subject:               Comments on the Recycled Water Study Session
Attachments:           Claire Elliott Comments 11-19-18.pdf


Please find an attached letter with comments on tonight's study session. Thanks!
Claire Elliott




                                                                  1
November 19, 2018

Palo Alto City Council, via email attachment

Dear City Council members,
Thank you for your attention to the important goal of reducing demand for Tuolumne River
water through recycled water reuse. I am a strong supporter of water conservation and reuse
and believe we should develop it a variety of scales and using low-energy requiring
technologies where possible. I am unable to attend tonight’s study session, but hope to share
some issues I cannot find addressed in the staff report.

   1. Several acres of valuable and increasingly rare saltmarsh habitat have been converted to
      freshwater marsh where the effluent from the RWQCP enters the bay. The study does
      not mention that reducing the amount of discharge to the bay from the plant would
      help to expand saltmarsh habitat in Palo Alto.

   2. Pumping water requires significant energy use. Therefore, the study should consider
      additional alternatives that require significantly less use of pumps, such as reuse on the
      scale of individual properties or neighborhoods with their own small treatment plant to
      provide water for reuse.

   3. Use of groundwater and recharging seems a good way to help treat the water and make
      it more “palatable” to the public. However, it is important that groundwater is not
      drawn down locally to the extent it damages drains creek habitat or lowers the water
      table damaging trees and other vegetation that depend on it.

Thanks for allowing me to comment on the study. I hope to see water reuse expand in Palo
Alto!




Claire Elliott
Senior Ecologist, Grassroots Ecology
271 Chestnut Ave.
Palo Alto, CA 94306
claire@grassrootsecology.org
                                                                                  COUNCIL MEETING
                                                                                           11/19/2018
                                                                                       Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                                  4
Carnahan, David
                                                                                   ✔




From:              Stephanie Martinson <rsmsmartinson@gmail.com>
Sent:              Monday, November 19, 2018 12:55 PM
To:                Council, City
Subject:           Support for Agenda action item #4




       Dear City council members,


       I’m writing to you in support of Item #4 on tonight’s city council agenda. The proposed roof deck, which
       doesn’t increase employee #’s or traffic is a key feature for employees and would benefit everyone’s
       health and well being. I don’t believe the noise would be a factor during the day but the benefit would
       be significant. I do hope this is considered!

Stephanie Martinson
Park blvd.




                                                           1
                                                                        COUNCIL MEETING
                                                                                11/26/2018
                                                                            Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                      2
Carnahan, David
                                                                        ✔




From:             RICH STIEBEL <w6apz@comcast.net>
Sent:             Monday, November 19, 2018 4:11 PM
To:               Council, City
Subject:          More Parking, More Housing 111918o



Today’s Daily Post carried the sub‐headline: “Less Parking, More Housing.” This is a clear gift to
developers without real concern for Palo Alto citizens.



Yes, we need more affordable housing in Palo Alto, but YES we need more parking spaces required for
buildings, especially those which have affordable housing. Why? Because it is especially true that
those families who can least afford housing require that both spouses work to make ends meet. This
frequently means two cars. When their kids grow up and learn to drive, a third car appears.



Ground floor retail space is another important need. We have seen much retail space converted to
businesses in the past few years. We need new space that is zoned for “retail only” and priced to
encourage the re‐introduction of small retail shops.



If this discourages developers from building in Palo Alto, so be it. That would open the way for the
city to develop affordable housing that really meets the community needs. City government is
supposed to serve ALL the citizens, not just those who want to make a quick profit.



Rich Stiebel

840 Talisman Drive

Palo Alto, CA 94303‐4435




                                                       1
Carnahan, David

From:                 Richard Almond <rjalmond@stanford.edu>
Sent:                 Tuesday, November 20, 2018 10:41 AM
To:                   Council, City
Subject:              New measure



Please vote against this new addition to our parking and traffic problems. You are ruining the quality of life
here, and everyone will suffer.

Richard Almond, MD
1520 University Avenue
Palo Alto, CA 94301

Opinion pieces and other recommendations may not always be responded to quickly, due to time constraints, but they are appreciated.




                                                                 1
Carnahan, David

From:               Jan Holliday <luvlivlaf@aol.com>
Sent:               Tuesday, November 20, 2018 11:40 AM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            Proposed ordinance on housing......


PLEASE do not approve this hastily drawn proposal. I implore you to STOP giving concessions to developers and eroding
the very quality of life we all have made great sacrifices to maintain.
Traffic, fewer off street parking places, more demands on City services, and on and on. I respectfully request you to
consider approving more housing, and less commercial development NOW, before you destroy what quality of life we
have left.
46 year Palo Alto resident , Jan Holliday

Sent from my iPad




                                                          1
Carnahan, David

From:                Magic <magic@ecomagic.org>
Sent:                Tuesday, November 20, 2018 11:36 AM
To:                  Bill Fitch
Cc:                  Wolfgang Dueregger; Council, City; evergreen-park-discuss@yahoogroups.com; Paul & Karen
                     Machado; Neilson Buchanan; Arthur Keller; Carol Scott; Christian Pease; aileeny07@me.com; Irene Au
Subject:             Re: [evergreen-park-discuss] proposed housing ordinance


Hi, everyone,

In the dogma of density we see reflected continuing growth mania. Two generations ago predecessors of today's
"planners" sold suburbia as part of an "American Dream." Today's planners tout "density" as key to "sustainable" cities.
Both "solutions" ruinous, ill‐informed, and fly in the face of well‐established principles of ecology. In an era of declining
net energy per capita—a result of rising population and falling energy return on energy invested (ERoEI)—we will
increasingly recognize this; however, the investment in buildings, paving, and other urban infrastructure that we put in
place before we do will be an enduring liability, and evidence of a missed opportunity to adapt more successfully to a
changing environment.

Cities are physical entities that we build and operate with energy and work (in the force x distance sense, as well as the
labor sense). Like force and distance, one of which is an intensive factor, and the other of which is an extensive factor,
density and extensiveness are both important. To speak of density without addressing extensiveness is like talking about
work as force without mentioning distance. Were such conversations less insistently maintained by those who buy
"newsprint by the trainload and ink by the barrel," we might more easily discontinue them.

Any spot on Earth's surface can be inhabited by humans, given sufficient energy to access resource and dispose of
waste. Even locations richly endowed with energy and other resources have an optimal level of population, beyond
which marginal real costs of each added inhabitant are greater than those of the prior. Unless incremental people are
condemned to lesser life quality, those already present work harder or live less well once that threshold is reached.

Before acceding to greater density in any part of the Bay Area, one of the nation's and the world's most extensively
dense human settlements, we might better ask, "What and where will we build if our goal is to provide decent life
quality for all people within bounds of Earth's human carrying capacity (the number of us who can inhabit the planet
without degrading environmental qualities on which we rely)?" In terms of life quality "bang" for ecological footprint
"buck" building dense housing in Palo Alto is a miserable investment.

The pejorative "NIMBY" is, like many slogans, a tool for dividing us against each other, that others may exploit us. Each
of us has responsibility for stewarding that part of the Earth where we live, and for doing so in a manner consistent with
well‐being of other people and places. Those decrying NIMBYism too often abdicate both these responsibilities, either in
pursuit of narrow personal gain, or for want of understanding the impossibility of growing our way out of a difficulty
we've created by growth.

Humans have been beyond carrying capacity in some locales for millennia and globally for at least centuries. If we are to
arrest the plunge into collective impoverishment entailed in environmental degradation, and be viewed by those who
follow as something other than fools and knaves, we'll address the question of how to transition in an orderly way to a
smaller population of humans and a reduced stock of artifact, with correspondingly reduced and qualitatively altered
flows of matter and energy. To press forward with growth is folly.




                                                              2
What exists in Palo Alto today is "overshoot," population and artifact beyond carrying capacity. To move towards
sustainability we'll characterize our situation as a jobs "longage" rather than a housing shortage. By converting other
uses to residential, we can achieve balance without growth.

Thank you for reading. If you want to continue to explore questions of land use, ecological footprint, sustainability, etc.,
I'll be glad for your partnership.

Loving you,

David




********** Magic, 1979-2018: thirty-nine years of valuescience leadership ***********

Magic demonstrates how people can address individual, social, and environmental ills
nearer their roots by applying science to discern value more accurately and realize
it more fully.

Enjoy the satisfaction of furthering Magic's work by making one-time or recurring
gifts at http://ecomagic.org/participate.shtml#contribute. Magic is a 501(c)(3) public
charity. Contributions are tax-deductible to the full extent permitted by law.

                    THANK YOU!

www.ecomagic.org -------- (650) 323-7333 --—----- Magic, Box 15894, Stanford, CA 94309

**************************************************************************************



On Tue, Nov 20, 2018 at 7:45 AM Facehiker <facehiker@gmail.com> wrote:
 Wolfgang: I strongly disagree. Time for Palo Altans to stop being NIMBYs. Drop the height limit, encourage housing for
 the workers of Stanford and tech companies. build transit.

 Bill

 On Nov 19, 2018, at 9:58 PM, Wolfgang Dueregger wolfgang.dueregger@alumni.stanford.edu [evergreen‐park‐discuss]
 <evergreen‐park‐discuss‐noreply@yahoogroups.com> wrote:



           Dear City Council,

           We residents in Evergreen Park strongly oppose any housing ordinance that decreases quality of life
           through increased parking inundating already saturated neighborhood streets, higher density, more air
           pollution through eve increasing traffic congestion.

           You approved already high density projects along El Camino Real. The intersection of El Camino Real
           and Page Mill is one of the worst intersections in the whole county.

           We told you many times before and I repeat: if you are really serious to provide low income housing,
           then provide LOW income housing. LOW income housing is not high density housing where developers
           strike it rich at the expense of whole neighborhoods for decades to come.

                                                                          3
Identify high‐employee‐count employers such as Palantir that swallow lots of space in prime downtown
areas where there would be ENOUGH space to convert those premises for low income housing.
‐ Again, the question is: how serious are you?

‐ Were you finally able to produce a list of all employers across Palo Alto which have a headcount of
50+ people? (or whatever that threshold might be)

‐ What is your definition of a startup company (in terms of # of employees)?

‐ Did you explore ways to re"settle" those companies that are above that threshold (in terms of
employees) to some more "industrial" areas like Stanford research park and East of Hwy 101?
The Theranos building has been sitting empty for a while...

Resettling hi‐headcount corporations will free up the necessary space for low income housing.

That way you actually would help those people who are completely priced out of this housing market.

We strongly oppose to jump on the bandwagon dictated by Sacramento politicians to build, build,
build. NOT in our still nice town of Palo Alto.

We urge you to tell the builders to go somewhere else. We have enough air pollution and traffic, both
of which need to be REDUCED ‐ not further increased.

Your consultant's analysis that denser housing gets away will less parking is naive. There is just no way
to enforce such a "theory". When you build a structure with n units and either sell them or rent them
out, you just cannot tell the people who are renting or buying that they are not allowed to have a car
(or 2 or more). Or if you could do that (theoretically), then you would need to apply that same law to
everybody. Will you do that?

We look forward to answers to my questions above ‐ which we already asked times before and never
got answered!

thank you

Wolfgang Dueregger




__._,_.___


Posted by: Wolfgang Dueregger <wolfgang.dueregger@alumni.stanford.edu>



Join Nextdoor to connect and communicate with neighbors in Evergreen Park and
Palo Alto. https://evergreenparkpaloalto.nextdoor.com


                                                    4
Carnahan, David

From:               Barbara Riper <tobin8@sbcglobal.net>
Sent:               Tuesday, November 20, 2018 11:10 AM
To:                 Council, City
Subject:            New City Housing Ordinance


Please reject this latest, misleadingly named proposal.
At best it is premature, but more importantly it exacerbates parking problems we already endure and accomplishes little
for housing except reward developers yet again.




                                                           6
                                                                                      COUNCIL MEETING
                                                                                              11/26/2018             14
                                                                                      ✔
                                                                                          Received Before Meeting
Carnahan, David

From:                 William Butler <butlerwd@yahoo.com>
Sent:                 Sunday, November 18, 2018 7:27 PM
To:                   Council, City
Subject:              Rinconada Pool and Masters Team


Dear Council:
I am writing as a concerned citizen.

It is deeply disturbing what Tim Sheeper is doing to the Rinconada Masters Team and Program.

As you know, the Rinconada Masters, founded by beloved coach Carol Macpherson, is a long time community that has
used the pool for decades.

With a vague claim in the name of safety, something about not enough life guards on duty during workouts, Mr
Sheepers is making a naked power grab to run his own Masters swim program, so he can make more money from his
management of the pool.

He did not have the decency to speak with Carol about his concerns or provide constructive feedback or work with her
on a solution if the current setup is/was in adequate.

Several of us swimmers are CPR certified, and the pool lies within earshot of the fire station, and while it is under
construction, it normally houses trained paramedics. Furthermore, Mr Sheepers employs plenty of people that are
trained life guards. There has to be a solution that allows the current setup to work.

It all seems like a really bad plot from a movie.

The reality is that we like the Team and Program as it is. If there is legitimate safety concern, then there should be a
dialogue to solve it, not a unilateral termination of an agreement that has been in place for decades.

Bottom line, I am not happy with the way the pool has been run, Mr Sheeper is not Customer or community oriented
enough.

This is not his pool, it belongs to us citizens and property taxpayers. He needs to serve us, or stop managing the pool.

Tell him to work out a solution with the Rinconada Masters Team and Program as it is now, and not destroy a
community resource for his own enrichment using his vague concern about safety as a dodge. This is very unbecoming.

Thank you,
William Butler



Sent from my iPhone




                                                             1
Carnahan, David

From:               kemp650@aol.com
Sent:               Sunday, November 18, 2018 5:25 PM
To:                 Council, City
Cc:                 LeBlanc, Jazmin; Douglas, Stephanie
Subject:            Rinconada Pool Contract - I am a Lap Swimmer with Multiple Concerns about the proposed 5-Year
                    Contract with Team Sheeper


Dear City Council Members,

I am a longtime lap swimmer at Rinconada Pool and a longtime Palo Alto resident.

I have been following the City of Palo Alto Parks and Recreation Department transfer of pool management and
operations to the Team Sheeper organization and have multiple concerns about the Rec Department’s
recommendation to enter into a 5-year contract with Team Sheeper beginning in January 2019.

Team Sheeper's current contract with the City will be ending at the end of next month. Team Sheeper was the one
and only bidder on the 5-year contract the Parks and Rec Department put out to bid earlier this year. We swimmers
were told the contract would be for 3 to 5 years; I'm not sure why it's all-of-a-sudden a 5-year contract.

My observation is that Team Sheeper has cultivated a cozy and self-serving relationship with Parks and Rec to the
exclusion of other stakeholders (namely, the swimmers) and it is no surprise that Parks and Rec wholeheartedly
recommends this 5-year contract renewal with the one and only bidder.

Meanwhile, lap swimmers I have talked to and other swimmer groups (masters especially) have little to no trust in
Team Sheeper; communications with Team Sheeper management over the past year have been sketchy to non-
existent. The pool was closed or late opening multiple times with little to no warning. Other communications about
partial pool closings were so confusing that many of us didn't go to the pool, assuming the pool was closed when it
wasn't. When the City of Palo Alto ran the pool, one could phone the pool during lap swimming hours and speak to
pool staff on-site to confirm whether or not the pool was open; when I tried phoning the pool under
Team Sheeper management, no one answered the phone. When I asked a Team Sheeper employee in person whether
or not the Team Sheeper front desk personnel at the pool answered the phone during lap swim hours, I was told they
didn't because it was ‘usually someone asking about lessons’. That leaves me with option of either skipping my swim
or going to the pool in person to see whether or not it was open.

In addition, we've heard stories about thefts of personal property (car keys taken out of swimmers' pockets/bags in
the locker rooms while they were in the pool swimming and those keys used to get into the swimmer's car and steal
personal belongings), but have never heard any words of caution or alerts from Team Sheeper about how to keep
belongings safe during our swim (the locker rooms are not monitored because of privacy, making them prime targets
for anyone bold enough to walk in and pilfer through people's belongings). The front desk under the
Team Sheeper management is not always monitored, so someone can walk in without being noticed while front desk
personnel are switching out roles with the life guard on the pool deck, taking a rest room break, etc. Under the old
management, access to the pool was through a different gate and access through to the locker rooms was past many
swimmers, life guard personnel, etc., so thefts were rarer.

Team Sheeper has told the masters swim organizer that their contract will not be renewed as of January 2019; they
gave very little notice and handled the contract cancellation very poorly. Masters swimmers who spoke at the October
23 Parks and Recreation meeting praised the program and said it was for 'everyman'. I am not a masters swimmer,
but I sympathize with swimmers who want to approach the sport from any age, condition, etc. My impression of
Team Sheeper is that they are targeting a more demanding, high performance and probably younger crowd than the
current users, and they were happy to find a safety issue that they could exploit in order to eliminate the program and
take it over themselves. In the process, trust in both Team Sheeper and Parks and Rec has been downgraded even
more than before.

As for lap swimming concerns, they are as follows:

1. That Team Sheeper will want to mix and match lap swim and masters swimmers during the same times of the day.
When the original contract with Team Sheeper was negotiated, both lap swimmers and masters swimmers attended
Parks and Recreation meetings in great numbers and voiced their concerns loudly and clearly, and both groups agreed
                                                           2
that they did not want to mix and match: they each want exclusive use at specified times as we've had at the pool for
decades. The sample schedule that Team Sheeper included in the presentation to Parks and Rec on October 23
already shows mixing and matching lap and masters swimmers on some of the current masters only days during the
week while adding masters swim time slots into the previously lap swim only morning hours on the weekend. The
time slots are as short as ½ hour, which is impractical and unlikely to satisfy anyone. Who does that serve except
Team Sheeper - more bodies in the water means more money for them.

2. Speaking of more money for Team Sheeper, the materials shared at the October 23 meeting with Parks
and Rec also showed a 6.7% increase in fees. At the Snacks with Staff’ meetings that the Parks and Rec held with
swimmers on October 16th and October 18th, Jazmin mentioned a price increase that would become effective later on
and quoted something like 2%. At the October 23 meeting she mentioned a price increase attributable to operating
expenses going up, but did not elaborate. We already pay more now than we did when the City of Palo Alto ran the
program. If I am going to be hit with a 6.7% increase, what am I getting for it except a lower quality experience
should Team Sheeper execute on the mix and match lap and masters swim hours increase? The increased number of
bodies in the pool also means more use of the locker rooms and showers and probably waits for showers during
popular morning hours when most swimmers are trying to get showered and off to work.

3. The 5-year contract is extraordinary. There should be as many safeguards as possible to avoid
Team Sheeper totally taking over the program and implementing all the profit-maximizing tools they have. Shouldn't
there be something like 1-year renewals with certain benchmarks and opportunities for feedback before implementing
the next one-year renewal? My understanding is that other City of Palo Alto departments grant 1-year contracts, not
blanket 5-year contracts. Also, what happened to the 3-year contract option that was mentioned at the March 6
community meeting? Again, the easier path for Parks and Rec is to recommend the 5-year contract which makes less
work for them and helps to further solidify the Team Sheeper hold on the operation since who else would want to bid
after 5 years?

4. More on the issue of the positive relationship that Parks and Rec has with Team Sheeper: Jazmin characterized the
public feedback at the community outreach forum on March 6th 2018 was positive about Team Sheeper's
management of the pool. I attended the meeting and would not characterize it as such. In addition, Parks
and Rec stated that future meetings would be held with the community, but those meetings never materialized. The
lack of transparency and communication between Team Sheeper, the City and the lap swimmers may be due to Parks
and Rec's loss of the lap swimmers email list. I find that suspicious and convenient for them. This explains why
many/all of us are in the dark about Team Sheeper's proposal and the steps Parks and Rec have been taking to
approve it. Even at the Snacks with Staff meeting that I attended on October 16, I provided my email address yet
again and haven't heard a peep despite Jazmin saying that they would follow up with me about my concerns (thefts at
the pool and poor/unclear/non-existent communications about pool closures).

I am disappointed with the choice our city faces with regard to this 5-year contract with Team Sheeper. They were the
only bidder, we not only do not trust Team Sheeper but also now do not trust the Park and Recs Department to
accurately represent our issues and concerns. Ultimately, we are worried that our city gem of a community pool will
be transformed into a pool more like Burgess pool in Menlo Park, that Team Sheeper also manages - one that is
overcrowded and a chaotic and unpleasant experience for lap swimmers – a commercial venue, not a city pool.

Thank you for considering my concerns in making your decision on Monday night, November 19th.

Sincerely,

Susan Kemp




                                                          3
Carnahan, David

From:                alemmenes@juno.com
Sent:                Sunday, November 18, 2018 4:01 PM
To:                  Council, City
Cc:                  ParkRec Commission
Subject:             Rinconada pool


Dear City Council and Parks and Rec Commission,

I am a Palo Alto home owner who has been meaning to write this follow up email since the meeting at City Hall on
October 23, 2018. Thank you for giving us the opportunity to speak and to hear your questions concerning the possible
program changes at Rinconada pool. Life has been busy, but we swimmers still feel just as strongly about the usage of
Rinconada pool.

I am a lap swimmer who uses Rinconada pool as one of my only available ways to stay in shape. I have medical issues
that keep me from some of my former forms of working out, and swimming is fortunately an ideal and effective route
for me. I am currently still working and I am able to swim at Rinconada before heading off to my work day. When I get
to the pool, at about 6:20, all 14 lanes are filled, almost always with two swimmers per lane. I swim for about 30 min.
and during this time the lanes continue to be filled.

 When I retire I hope to continue my lap swimming as a way to maintain my health, fitness and sanity. I am also
considering joining the Masters program run by Carol Macpherson of the Rinconada Masters Swim Club. We lead very
busy and stressful lives and it is important to have the type of program that fits your needs. Rinconada Masters, as
currently exists, is providing just what its members want in a Masters program. This should not be taken away from
them. Those who want an extrememly competitive program can easily find a group to join in the surrounding area
(Stanford, Burgess, Foothill...) that will suit those desires.

Team Sheeper's refusal to allow Rinconada Masters to continue as it is seems to serve some other purpose than to
satisfy the people who currently use Rinconada for their Masters swimming. Does Mr. Sheeper have a large, new group
of Masters swimmers clamoring to change the program at Rinconada? Couldn't these swimmers join the group at
Burgess on a reciprocal basis and leave Rinconada's program alone?

Our lap swim group was alarmed by the fact that Mr. Sheeper is being granted a 5 year contract without making clear
what his plans are for the long term usage of Rinconada Pool. We have seen a tentative schedule for January 2019. Is
the city comfortable signing a contract that so limits our vision of the future for this valuable public resource? Already it
looks as though the Sheeper plan is to crowd out the current Masters program. Is a severely reduced lap swim program
next?

Crowding PASA or Master swim times into the lap swim times will defeat the purposes of all. Please maintain Rinconada
pool as a community pool that honors the wishes of those who use it.

Thank you for seriously considering the needs and wants of the community of swimmers at Rinconada pool.
Best regards,
Ann Lemmenes




____________________________________________________________

                                                              4
How To Remove Eye Bags & Lip Lines Fast (Watch)
ourhealthpros.com
http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/5bf1fda08bae57da01a71st02vuc
    To help protect y ou r
    priv acy , Micro so ft Office
    prev ented au tomatic
    download of this pictu re
    from the Internet.
    SponsoredBy Content.A d




                                                        5
Carnahan, David

From:                Judith Schwartz <judith@tothept.com>
Sent:                Monday, November 19, 2018 11:25 AM
To:                  Council, City
Cc:                  acribbs@basoc.org
Subject:             Masters Program at Rinconada Pool



Dear City Council,

I’ve swum with Rinconada Masters since the mid 1980s. I’ve also swum for several years at a time with Menlo
Masters so I know Carol Macpherson and Tim Sheeper personally and well. I’ve competed for both teams. I
was the 2011 Menlo Masters Swimmer of the Year and I’ve been Carol’s lane mate for many years. I have
strong loyalty and affection for both teams.

I am currently swimming with Rinc as that team’s more low key approach is serving me better right now. MM
is also a great team with a different, more competitive character and wonderful people (many of whom live in
Palo Alto).

I have tremendous respect for Tim who has been unfairly demonized by people who don’t even know him. He
is a solid, ethical guy who encourages his swimmers to give back to the community. Among the initiatives
supported by Menlo Masters under his leadership are a reading literacy program, food drives in Feb., new
shoe drives in the fall, donated gifts for kids at Christmas, and a foundation, Beyond Barriers, that offers swim
lessons to disadvantaged kids. He took on the management of Belle Haven pool in Ravenswood even though
it operates at a loss.

Team Sheeper has demonstrated it can do a good job managing an aquatics program with staff with varied
skills who will work part‐time and seasonally. They have earned the trust of City staff and the Parks and Rec
Commission over several years. I support renewing Team Sheeper’s contract to operate the Rinconada pool
facility.

I also support keeping Rinconada Masters at the pool and would hope a compromise can still be achieved
with the help of a good independent mediator. As you’ve seen, Rinc swimmers are enthusiastic supporters of
our community group and have loyalty to our coaches. For Carol to lose the Master’s team she co‐founded
would be a huge personal and professional loss. Former Olympian Terri Baxter Smith is the daughter of the
other co‐founder and provides skillful stroke coaching that I haven’t found at any other team. Rinconada is a
team with a deep legacy in Palo Alto that continues to provide valuable services, including the Swim for
Fitness programs that prepares people to join a masters team.

An excellent program that retains what’s unique about Rinconada Masters and judiciously adds selected
elements of the Team Sheeper formula and administrative organization, would be a wonderful evolution for
the former, complement to Menlo Masters (and the other area teams) and provide a solution that everyone
could cheer. The transition could be made seamless for the swimmers and demonstrate local communities
can find common ground when we keep the shared goals in mind.

Thank you.

                                                        1
Best regards,

Judith

Judith Schwartz
Palo Alto, CA 94301 USA




                          2
Carnahan, David

From:             mark weiss <earwopa@yahoo.com>
Sent:             Tuesday, November 20, 2018 8:14 AM
To:               Council, City
Subject:          What’s up at Rinconada Pool?




Sent from my iPhone


                                                       1
Carnahan, David

From:                Ann Protter <ann.protter@gmail.com>
Sent:                Monday, November 19, 2018 10:19 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Extend existing Team Sheeper proposal for one year




Dear City Council Members,

Thank you for hearing all of us who spoke and/or showed up in support of Carol's Master Swim program.


I believe the best solution proposed tonight was:

 Please request a one year extension of Team Sheeper's currently existing contact.


Please vote to NOT accept the new RFP bid (next Monday).

 ‐ This bid removes Carol as the Master's Coach.

 ‐ This bid eliminates the Swim for Fitness program.

The widespread perception among the swimmers is of a lack of transparency. I attended the Park and Recreation
Commission meeting when the city (Jazmine LeBlanc) presented the proposal. Each and every commissioner had
something negative to say to her ‐ about the process, the timing, the lack of transparency, and/or the lack of trust.

It's up to the City Council to reject the proposal by Team Sheeper. Instead, please offer to extend his existing contract
(and subcontracts) for one year. This allows everyone time to address all concerns and issues. And keeps the Rinconada
Masters and Swim for Fitness programs intact ‐‐ and the swimmers happy.

Thank you,
Ann Protter




                                                             1
                                                                     COllN<;IL ~ING


     To:
     Date:
     Subject:
                   Palo Alto City Council
                   November 19, 2018
                                                                 I     11-19-1
                                                                     [ ] Plac Before Meeting
                                                                     [     eceived at Meeting


                   Proposed contract with Team Sheeper for Rinconada Pool management

     Dear Esteemed Council Members:

     WHEREAS: the proposed contract with Team Sheeper is flawed in several important respects as
     follows:

            The Request for Proposals (RfP) was crafted such that only one potential contractor could
            respond, namely Team Sheeper.
            Not all stakeholders were consulted. A public forum was held on March 6, 2018 to hear
            and discuss views of the community. The Rinconada Masters, a significant stakeholder,
            were not informed of the forum beforehand, and therefore could not attend.
            We were informed on October 16, 2018 that the subcontract between Team Sheeper and


/?
            the Rinconada Masters would not be renewed. As of January 1, 2019 the Rinconada
            Masters as an organization would no longer have access to the Rinconada Pool facility,
            which has been our home continuously since 1973.

'v          It was recommended at a Parks and Recreation meeting on October 23, 2018 that the


z           proposed contract with Team Sheeper be signed, adopted, and ratified by the City, and
            that the process had progressed too far to turn back. In fact the process was conducted
            almost entirely behind closed doors, with very little transparency. The process was highly
            unsatisfactory, as is the proposed contract.

     THEREFORE: We the Rinconada Masters respectfully recommend that the proposed contract
     with Team Sheeper NOT be ratified by the Council.

     FURTHERMORE: We recommend and request that the existing contract, together with all
     subcontracts, be extended one year through December 31, 2019. During this period the
     Rinconada Pool facility would continue to operate as it does today.
Carnahan, David

From:               Deborah Goldeen <palamino@pacbell.net>
Sent:               Friday, November 16, 2018 10:28 AM
To:                 Info, Plandiv
Cc:                 Council, City
Subject:            2105 Birch St.


A house adjacent to mine is being torn down and a new house built in it’s place. I received a notice saying I had two
weeks to review the plans. When I tried to do so, plans were not on website. When I called I was told, “Oh. That so and
so is no longer working here.” What i understand from my neighbor is the plans call for a full basement, as in a
basement that extends for the entire foot print of the house and that will essentially be made into rooms for living in.
There is an underground, seasonal river that runs under 301 Oxford and 263 Oxford. 2105 Birch, as a corner property, is
in a direct line between these two properties. If I am not mistaken, basements being built where there are underground
rivers makes for all sorts of problems?

Deb Goldeen, 2130 Birch St., 94306, 321‐7375




                                                           1
Carnahan, David

From:              susan downs <susanrdowns@hotmail.com>
Sent:              Monday, November 19, 2018 12:13 PM
To:                Council, City
Cc:                Architectural Review Board; Clerk, City
Subject:           A plea to consider residents in your 5 G actions




Dear Sirs:

I am horrified that the Palo Alto government puts its own self interests ahead of the health of its citizens. This
was evident by the city council allowing Verizon to come in to Palo Alto to endanger the health of its
citizens. The recent exposure of your Chief Technical Officer and Chief Information Officer's corruption
collaborates Palo Alto's complicity in this crime.

I ask that you
1) to reverse its approval of the Verizon/Vinculums Cluster 1 cell towers and
2) to halt the cell tower application review process until there has been a full investigation of Jonathan
Reichental’s actions. We, the residents of Palo Alto, were not given a level playing field on which to make our
case about neighborhood cell towers. City Council needs to level the playing field and rehear the case.

We also intend to make each member involved in this decision financially liable for the ensuing damage and
health conditions as it is reprehensible that you aim to make Palo Alto residents ill. Your actions are no
different from the actions of the tobacco industry decades ago.

To learn more about this, you might want to check out my interview below. I have many more interviews if
you would like additional information

Disturbed by your actions,

Susan Downs, MD



                             TROUBLE VIEWING? Click Here to view the Promo card on the web


                             SIGN-UP NOW! SIGN-UP NOW! Click to become a Member for Free!




                                                           1
Occupy Health                                                      Tune in
Friday at 11 AM Pacific                                             Friday at 11 AM Pacific Time on
November 16th 2018:5G Wireless: Depopulation of the                VoiceAmerica Health and Wellness
Planet                                                                         Channel


Research shows that wireless radiation such as from cell phone
                                                                             LISTEN LIVE
can result in brain cancer (Hardell), brain changed in the brain
(hippocampus) of the offspring (Kaplan Suleyman). Wi fi disrupts
inter-cellular communication, opens the blood brain barrier and       EPISODE ON DEMAND
the intestinal lining) leading to every disease imaginable. It
affects human ovaries and sperm so some predict that human
reproduction will stop within a few generations. 5 G and the             VIEW HOST PAGE
internet of things takes this one step further with very low
frequencies that disrupts many bodily functions. The US military
                                                                       Questions? Comments?
has been researching thi
                                                                             Call In Live!
                                                                      Toll Free: 1-866-472-5792
                                                    Read more
                                                                        Intl: 001-480-553-5759

     SHARE
                     DOWNLOAD PDF
                                              GET CODE




Featured Guest




                                                      2
                                          Lena Pu
                                          The mother of two teenage children, her past work involved
                                          restoring sensitive environmental habitat for the US Army
                                          Corps of Engineers. As project manager she worked with
                                          all the alphabet agencies for several years and took that
                                          experience and training as well as knowledge of
                                          environmental toxicology into her new line of work and
                                          passion - promoting the health of all life by preserving our
                                          natural electromagnetic earth through the use of safe
                                          technologies,    WIRED        tech.   She    is   currently   the
                                          Environmental     Health      Consultant    for   the   'National
                                          Association     for     Children   and     Safe   Technologies'
                                          (NACST.org). She is spearheading her own website
                                          starting the new year called, FabulousFrequencies.com
                                                                                              Read more



Share This Episode

    Share On Facebook        Share On Twitter                   Share On LinkedIn


Connect with VoiceAmerica
             Download our mobile apps




                                                3
Carnahan, David

From:             Larry and April Alton <lalton@pacbell.net>
Sent:             Wednesday, November 14, 2018 6:13 PM
To:               Council, City
Subject:          Alma street train crossing



Dear Council Members,
I believe the best train crossing for Alma would be tracks under the road and
creek. Alma is one of the main entrances to Palo Alto and we want it to be beautiful and
representative of our high class city! This is certainly possible from an engineering
standpoint and the additional cost would not be that great considering the overall cost of
the train route thru Palo Alto.

Thanks,
Larry Alton




                                                        1
Carnahan, David

From:             annetteisaacson@comcast.net
Sent:             Friday, November 16, 2018 11:52 AM
To:               Council, City
Subject:          an article I hope you will read



Dear Member of the City Council,



I just read an article about the housing crisis that I hope you will
read: https://www.citylab.com/equity/2018/11/millennials-home-buying-generation-priced-
out/574840/?fbclid=IwAR10-IhZdUQn5saV2ETpy1ln_yO98EGsoRrgMHfaIO7vt4FUU3GiAVAc0uA



I live in Midtown on Webster St. When my neighbors first moved in after WWII, these affordable
1200- 1600 square foot, 2 and 3 bedroom homes were perfect for the teachers, firefighters,
secretaries, mechanics, and city workers who made Palo Alto such a great place to raise a family.
You only needed a single income to buy one of these great houses. When I moved in in 1991, two
income families could buy in this lovely neighborhood. My partner was an engineer and I was a
public school teacher. We thought the houses were "huge" and so well designed.



Now our "huge" houses are being torn down and replaced by truly HUGE, two storey houses that sell
for 4-5 million dollars. The latest tear down is going to have a 2400 square foot basement, 2400
square foot first floor and 2000 square foot second floor....all for one family! Who needs this much
space? Who will be able to afford this? Who will be able to afford the yearly taxes of over
$50,000?...not teachers, plumbers, firefighters, engineers, city workers...



If I could have my wish, the city would no longer allow these giant homes to be built in Palo Alto. If
someone wants to tear down a perfectly good starter house that could be purchased by a young
family and remodeled, they would have to build something that would accommodate more than one
family: a duplex or four-plex so people who work in Palo Alto may actually have a chance to live here.



We have to get smart about land use and building more affordable housing. We DO NOT NEED
more 4 or 5 million dollar mansions, especially when they become "GHOST" Houses and contribute
absolutely nothing to the neighborhood besides taxes to the city government.



Sincerely,

                                                       1
Annette Isaacson




                   2
Carnahan, David

From:                Amie Neff <amie.neff@gmail.com>
Sent:                Wednesday, November 14, 2018 2:28 PM
To:                  Council, City
Subject:             Boulware Park Homeless/Car Dwellers


Good Afternoon Council,
I've been working with homeless populations in shelters for over 2 decades, so easily noticed a couple of car dwellers
near Bouleware park. I'm not fearful of the homeless, and so being friendly isn't hard. They aren't at the park regularly,
but, when i'm passing by, and they're around I'm likely to say hi. I've left blankets on cold nights, and brought food on
other occasions. These are pretty nice guys, and I've never felt anything hostile from them. They keep the space tidy,
and stay out of the park proper.
A few years ago I noticed they had started growing some vegetables in the unoccupied lot adjacent to the AT&T
building. Being a Master Gardener, I was excited. I brought them seeds, and fertilizer, and some tools I had duplicates of.
There is a long history in the USA of community gardening being a panacea to poverty, starting with the Potato Patches
in the 1890's to Victory Gardens established during both WWI and WWII. There is an enormous urban garden movement
in cities like Detroit and and Milwaukee that have made important inroads in not only addressing hunger, but also, self‐
sufficiency, community pride, and care. California's own Insight Garden Program introduces incarcerated inmates to the
mental health benefits of gardening and have seen demonstrable reductions in recidivism for men who have
participated in their program. I see no downsides to gardening on an unused lot.

I saw the guys last week, and noticed there was no longer a garden. I brought them a big bag of my own vegetables and
asked them what was up with the garden. They told me they had stopped planting when AT&T started spraying Round‐
Up on their crops. What a heartbreak. I don't think there is a magic bullet to homelessness, but we could try, as a
community, to not make it worse.

I'd love to see that lot be allocated as a community garden for the homeless and car dwellers. I'm pretty sure I could
make a case for the Master Gardener's of Santa Clara county to provide education. I know a few other community
members like me, would also donate time and materials to seeing that happen.

At the very least, let the guys do this for themselves; it is an empowerment we deny our most needy citizens, and yet,
we also hate handouts.

Thanks for your time.


‐‐
Amie Neff
M.Arch, LEED® AP
‐‐
cell: 650/ 396/ 9146
amie.neff@gmail.com
www.capabledesign.com




                                                             1
                                                                                     Please Contact the Clerk’s Office
                                                                                         to View Additional Pages,
                                                                                     Attachments, or Images Related
Carnahan, David                                                                              to this Document

From:               Neilson Buchanan <cnsbuchanan@yahoo.com>
Sent:               Friday, November 16, 2018 12:21 PM
To:                 Keene, James; Shikada, Ed
Cc:                 Council, City
Subject:            Bus traffic and parking in DTN



This guy just moves half a block when asked to return to commercial parking area. Not isolated circumstance for DTN.
Please find a remedy
12:19pm today. Corner PA Ave and Emerson now
2
Sent from my iPhone




                      3
Carnahan, David

From:                Phil Burton <philip-b@comcast.net>
Sent:                Thursday, November 15, 2018 5:41 PM
To:                  De Geus, Robert
Cc:                  Council, City; 'Chris Logan'; Carrasco, Tony; 'Dave Shen'; 'Greg Brail'; 'Inyoung Cho'; 'Megan Kanne';
                     'Kari Hodgson'; 'Mandar Borkar'; 'Parag Patkar'; 'Patricia Lau'; 'Nadia Naik'
Subject:             Concern and frustration about lack of effective communications


Rob,

At the most recent City Council Rail Committee meeting, the third of three handouts was a June 28, 2017 letter from
then mayor Scharff to Francisco Castillo, Director of Public Affairs, Union Pacific Railroad. I was surprised to read the
following:

“The electrification of Caltrain will allow for higher grades, as electric service can easily deal with up to a two percent
grade.” [my italics] The maximum grade has been a central point of both Rail Committee and CAP meeting discussions,
because of the impact on construction costs as well as feasibility of certain alternatives. To the best of my knowledge,
no one on staff ever stated that the elected officials or staff already understood this point. When several speakers,
including me, made this point at various meetings, there was no staff response in the spirit of, “We already understand
this point, and are prepared to raise it with Caltrain and/or UPRR.”

I find it surprising and a bit frustrating that CAP members and members of the general public (speaking at Rail
Committee meetings) aren’t aware of the full history of this key issue. With full awareness of the history, CAP members
can be more effective as intermediaries between project staff and residents of our respective neighborhoods.

The online search “Union Pacific RR shortline RFP process” yields a link
http://www.caltrain.com/Assets/_Public+Affairs/pdf/UP+Agreement+FAQs.pdf, a March 1, 2017 Caltrain / UP
Agreement. The FAQ contains this question and answer:

However, the link in the answer is no longer valid.




Thus we have no way to know if and how the UP responded to Mayor Scharff’s letter, yet an understanding of their
response, if any, might have a vital bearing on current discussions of this issue. Is there any way for staff to provide CAP
members, or the general public, with copies of the relevant documents?

The other key issue involving UP is vertical clearance above top of rail. Has there been any correspondence with UP on
this issue?

I would like to point out that electric multiple‐unit trains can easily climb a grade of well over 2%. I am personally
familiar with grades on the New York City Transit System, which also uses electric MU trains. You can read here that
there are several locations on this system with grades over 4%. https://www.nyctransitforums.com/topic/39935‐what‐
is‐the‐steepest‐grade‐that‐subway‐cars‐can‐handle/

Respectfully,

Phil Burton
                                                              1
Carnahan, David

From:             Rita Vrhel <ritavrhel@sbcglobal.net>
Sent:             Monday, November 19, 2018 3:43 PM
To:               Council, City
Cc:               Bobel, Phil
Subject:          Conditions ripe for wildfire in Palo Alto Hills


Please read this interesting article on the danger of wildfires in our hills.... thank you


"Even more concerning, the vegetation or "fuel" moisture in the past week was only 5-7 percent —
exceedingly dry — according to NOAA." In today's PA Online: Conditions in Palo Alto area hills
are ripe for wildfire

Rita C. Vrhel, RN, BSN, CCM
Medical Case Management
Phone: 650-325-2298
Fax: 650-326-9451




                                                            1
Carnahan, David

From:              Gary Lindgren <gel@theconnection.com>
Sent:              Friday, November 16, 2018 2:13 PM
To:                Council, City
Subject:           Council Rail Committee Meeting


Hello,
The Wednesday Rail Committee was cut short because of an emergency and everyone exited the building. Will this
meeting be continued at a later date.
Thank you,
Gary Lindgren




Gary Lindgren
585 Lincoln Ave
Palo Alto CA 94301

650-326-0655
Check Out Latest Seismometer Reading
@garyelindgren

Listen to Radio Around the World

Be Like Costco... do something in a different way
Don't trust Atoms...they make up everything


A part of good science is to see what everyone else can see but
   think what no one else has ever said.
The difference between being very smart and very foolish is
   often very small.
So many problems occur when people fail to be obedient when
   they are supposed to be obedient, and fail to be creative when
   they are supposed to be creative.
The secret to doing good research is always to be a little
   underemployed. You waste years by not being able to waste
   hours.
It is sometimes easier to make the world a better place than to
   prove you have made the world a better place.
                 Amos Tversky



                                                         1
Carnahan, David

From:              Arlene Goetze <photowrite67@yahoo.com>
Sent:              Friday, November 16, 2018 10:14 AM
To:                Joe Simitian; Cindy Chavez
Subject:           Experts Call to End Fluoridation


Forwarded by Arlene Goetze, No Toxins for Children, photowrite67@yahoo.com

----- Forwarded Message -----
From: Fluoridealert.org <info@fluoridealert.org>
Sent: Friday, November 16, 2018, 6:14:57 AM PST
     Experts in Science and Health Join Call to End
Subject:

Fluoridation




            IN BRIEF

            * New Professionals Statement asks health professionals to Sign this
            statement
                to end water fluoridation worldwide (See signers below)
            * OR ask your doctor, dentist, nurse, health/environmental educator to
            sign
            * Latest studies detail fluoride damage in the womb lowers IQs
            * See fluoridealert.org for accurate articles about fluoride which is
               a neurotoxin, never tested by FDA and now in Federal Court for
            safety.

            A few days ago the Fluoride Action Network* sent out a request to
            professionals in any medical, scientific, legal, educational, environmental or
            other field, to sign a "New Professionals' Statement" calling for an end to
            water fluoridation worldwide--see the list of signers to the new statement.

            This "New Professionals' Statement" has been triggered by the publication of
            very important and disturbing U.S. Government-funded studies (Bashash et
            al, 2017 and 2018). These studies have added very strong additional
            evidence to the large number of existing studies that show that fluoride is


                                                    1
neurotoxic. They underline that the critical period of exposure to fluoride is
in the womb and that at levels of fluoride exposure currently experienced by
pregnant women in fluoridated communities there is a strong correlation with
the lowering of IQ and ADHD symptoms in their offspring.

Sadly, and possibly because the imposed dental practice of water fluoridation
is so entrenched in the psyche of the medical, dental and public health
establishments in fluoridated countries, neither governments not the
mainstream media are warning the public about this large - and growing -
body of scientific research.

Thus, we are appealing to professionals to sign this statement. We hope
by circulating this it will help us get this information out to more
professionals, the public (especially pregnant women), the media and
decision-makers in fluoridated countries, and eventually halt this unnecessary
and reckless practice being imposed on our children.

Please note, we are inviting all professionals to sign this new statement
regardless of whether they signed the original 2007 statement or not. For
the moment we will be treating this as a standalone statement, but so that we
don’t lose the weight of nearly 5000 signers to the previous statement we will
find some way of combining the totals of unique signers in the future.

If you are a professional and wish to add your name you can do it online
HERE. Please provide your name, highest degrees,
occupation town/state/country and email address. If you feel inclined please
add a short statement of your own.

If you are not a professional this effort gives you an excellent opportunity to
approach your doctor, dentist and other professionals in medical and
environmental fields with this shocking new information that fluoridation
maybe damaging the brains of future generations. If you have a university in
your town you may wish to approach professors teaching in any scientific
field. All the key information you and they need for this can be obtained
from our revolving mastheads on our home page FluorideALERT.org .

              SIGN & SHARE THE STATEMENT TODAY

Thank you for all you are doing to end this reckless and unnecessary practice.


Paul Connett, PhD,



                                       2
Executive Director of the Fluoride Action Network
and co-author of The Case Against Fluoride (Chelsea Green, 2010)

*FAN (www.FluorideAlert.org ), is a not-for-profit organization formed in
2000 by public health advocates and scientists from approximately 20
countries in an effort to educate citizens and decision-makers about the
dangers of ingesting fluoride with the mission to end the practice of water
fluoridation and other unnecessary exposure to this toxic substance.

See all FAN bulletins online




                                      3
Carnahan, David

From:               Tim Owens <tvowens@outlook.com>
Sent:               Tuesday, November 20, 2018 8:46 AM
To:                 Council, City; Tim Owens
Subject:            Fw: Your e-mail to City Council was received




Hello,

I sent an email on October 25, 2018. Your reply (below) states specifically,

"If your letter mentions a specific complaint or a request for service, we'll either reply with an explanation or
else send it on to the appropriate department for clarification."

I am still waiting. Thank you.


From: Council, City <city.council@cityofpaloalto.org>
Sent: Thursday, October 25, 2018 11:18 AM
To: Tim Owens
Subject: Your e‐mail to City Council was received

Thank you for your comments to the City Council. Your e‐mail will be forwarded to all nine Council Members
and a printout of your correspondence will also be included in the next available Council packet.

If your comments are about an item that is already scheduled for a City Council agenda, you can call 329‐2571
to confirm that the item is still on the agenda for the next meeting.

If your letter mentions a specific complaint or a request for service, we'll either reply with an explanation or
else send it on to the appropriate department for clarification.

We appreciate hearing from you.




                                                           1
Carnahan, David

From:               Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Sent:               Monday, November 19, 2018 1:35 PM
To:                 Loran Harding; Dan Richard; Daniel Zack; dennisbalakian; David Balakian; diffenbaugh@stanford.edu;
                    Doug Vagim; drliu@uscmc.com; robert.andersen; beachrides; bballpod; bearwithme1016@att.net;
                    Leodies Buchanan; paul.caprioglio; Cathy Lewis; Council, City; Chris Field;
                    esmeralda.soria@fresno.gov; francis.collins@nih.gov; Steven Feinstein; fmerlo@wildelectric.net;
                    Raymond Rivas; huidentalsanmateo; steve.hogg; hennessy; info@superide1.com; Irv Weissman; Joel
                    Stiner; jerry ruopoli; Jason Tarvin; kfsndesk; kwalsh@kmaxtv.com; Mark Kreutzer; kclark; newsdesk;
                    nchase@bayareanewsgroup.com; leager; Mark Standriff; midge@thebarretts.com; Mayor; nick
                    yovino; pavenjitdhillon@yahoo.com; popoff; russ@topperjewelers.com; Steve Wayte; scott.mozier;
                    shanhui.fan@stanford.edu; terry
Subject:            Fwd: Cal Fire gets some C-130s with 4000 gal capacity. But needed 747 has 24,000 gals!




‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Mon, Nov 19, 2018 at 12:16 PM
Subject: Fwd: Cal Fire gets some C‐130s with 4000 gal capacity. But needed 747 has 24,000 gals!
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>




‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Mon, Nov 19, 2018 at 11:53 AM
Subject: Fwd: Cal Fire gets some C‐130s with 4000 gal capacity. But needed 747 has 24,000 gals!
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>




‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Mon, Nov 19, 2018 at 3:02 AM
Subject: Fwd: Cal Fire gets some C‐130s with 4000 gal capacity. But needed 747 has 24,000 gals!
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>




‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Mon, Nov 19, 2018 at 2:27 AM
Subject: Re: Cal Fire gets some C‐130s with 4000 gal capacity. But needed 747 has 24,000 gals!
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>



                                                           1
On Mon, Nov 19, 2018 at 2:09 AM Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org> wrote:


On Mon, Nov 19, 2018 at 1:52 AM Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org> wrote:


 ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
 From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
 Date: Mon, Nov 19, 2018 at 1:42 AM
 Subject: Fwd: Cal Fire gets some C‐130s with 4000 gal capacity. But needed 747 has 24,000 gals!
 To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>




 ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
 From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
 Date: Mon, Nov 19, 2018 at 1:27 AM
 Subject: Fwd: Cal Fire gets some C‐130s with 4000 gal capacity. But needed 747 has 24,000 gals!
 To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>




 ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
 From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
 Date: Mon, Nov 19, 2018 at 1:18 AM
 Subject: Fwd: Cal Fire gets some C‐130s with 4000 gal capacity. But needed 747 has 24,000 gals!
 To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>




 ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
 From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
 Date: Mon, Nov 19, 2018 at 1:07 AM
 Subject: Fwd: Cal Fire gets some C‐130s with 4000 gal capacity. But needed 747 has 24,000 gals!
 To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>


         Monday, Nov. 19, 2018

         To all‐ Now a few vids that I think are very informative. Short statement by me on each as to why I include
 them:

        Here is a very good vid made on Tues. Nov. 13, 2018 showing how the DC‐10 tanker and the Global
 Supertanker 747 are refilled at McClellan to fight the "Camp fire" that leveled Paradise, Ca.: I am urging that we buy
 and convert 50 747s as tankers. The DC‐10 can hold 9,000 gal. of retardant and the 747 can hold 19,000 gals. This vid
 was made on Nov. 13 and the Camp fire started at 6:30 AM on Thurs. Nov. 8, KCBS said:

           https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mW0XQI525UE

                                                           2
         Now something really disturbing. The Dept. of HHS has issued a health warning re the danger of breathing all of
  the smoke that Californians are forced to breath with these fires. Notice that it says that "the smoke can present a
  significant threat for people with asthma and other lung conditions". End of paragraph 3. IMPORTANT: THAT IS
  THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT TALKING, AND IT SHOULD BE RIGHT. IT IS NOT RIGHT. THE SMOKE CAN ALSO CAUSE
  CARDIAC PROBLEMS, and the warning does not mention that! . SOME 21 YEAR OLD DIDN'T WRITE THIS. IT IS
  SUPPOSED TO BE RIGHT. THIS IS THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT TALKING. PRESUMABLY THE SECRETARY WROTE IT
  HIMSELF OR CAREFULLY REVIEWED IT AFTER CONSULTING WITH BIG GUN MEDICAL AUTHORITIES. I WILL PROVIDE
  NEXT A DISCUSSION BY DR. JON LAPOOK ON THE CBS WEEKEND NEWS LAST NIGHT IN WHICH HE SAYS THE SMOKE
  CAN ALSO CAUSE TROUBLE FOR PEOPLE PRE‐EXISTING CARDIAC AND LUNG CONDITIONS. PRES. TRUMP SHOULD
  CHEW OUT THE SECT. OF HHS IN PUBLIC FOR ISSUING THIS MISLEADING WARNING WHICH DISCUSSES ONLY ASTHMA
  AND OTHER LUNG CONDITIONS. IT WOULD NOT BE INAPPROPRIATE FOR THE PRESIDENT TO FIRE THE SECRETARY
  FOR THIS.


  https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2018/11/13/hhs‐secretary‐azar‐declares‐public‐health‐emergency‐in‐california‐
  due‐to‐wildfires.html

         Now Dr. Jon Lapook on the CBS Weekend News on Saturday, Nov. 17, 2018 discussing the health effects of
  breathing wild fire smoke: Note that he says that breathing wild fire smoke can cause trouble for those with pre‐
  existing lung and CARDIAC conditions.

              https://www.cbsnews.com/video/californias‐air‐now‐the‐dirtiest‐in‐the‐world/


           Here is a Bay Area pulmonologist discussing the dangers of breathing smoke. He mentions immune system,
 heart, lung and neurological problems:

             https://www.cbsnews.com/news/california‐wildfires‐health‐concerns‐over‐poor‐air‐quality/


          Here is PBS The Science behind California's surging wild fires: The documentary on mega‐fires coming in
2019 will be interesting. This is excellent:

            https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=btrqWvaSZck

             Here is President Trump et. al. on Saturday, Nov. 17, 2018 discussing the Camp Fire that destroyed Paradise,
Ca. All Californians are grateful for his visit. We need federal help to deal with these fires.

          https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T2SxrmiuN0U

          Here is Governor Brown on "Face the Nation" on Sunday, Nov. 18, 2018 discussing the California fires: He says
that the economic impact of them will be in the tens of billions. I think it could be much worse than that if it continues. I
believe that the economy of the Central Valley and even that of California could collapse as the better‐educated flee out
of here to protect their health:

          https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vFrRQQlV8ZA

           The aggressive suppression of wild fires started early in the 20 c. to support timber interests, this says. The
solution now is to do thinning and to apply prescribed burns. Homeowners in the fire zones will oppose these because it
changes the view and they won't like the smoke from the prescribed burns. In the "surging wild fires" video above, one
person comments that to thin the trees and to clean up the dead wood on millions of acres of forested land in the

                                                              3
western U.S. will be an enormous job. It will be expensive, but it will have to be done. In the meantime, since it will take
a long time to do, we should procure those 50 747 tankers, I think. For sure we start to discourage homes being built in
the wildland‐urban interface too, the WUI, it is called. More people living near the woods seems to provoke more fires
in the woods.

          So for President Trump to argue that these enormous, unrelenting wild fires every few weeks can be addressed
by just better forest management is ridiculous. It will be a start, but this problem of fuel build‐up took a century to
develop. The Sierra has 129 million dead trees, easy to spot since they are orange instead of green. I hope that Pres.
Trump had some of those pointed out to him during his visit to the Camp Fire on Saturday, Nov. 17, 2018. A four or five
year drought in California killed those trees, along with a Bark Beetle infestation. And the drought is thought by some
scientists to have been provoked by a shift in the jet stream caused by warming in the Arctic.

      So a sequence: A century of very aggressive forest fire suppression resulting in a huge build up of fuel, a five year
drought that killed 129 million trees in the Sierra, and more elsewhere in other parts of California, dry conditions, low
humidity, warmer temperatures, more people living in the WUI, and the result is the mega fires we are now getting
every few weeks in California. If the warmer, drier, less humid conditions, and even multi‐year droughts, persist and
intensify, we will have our hands full trying to thin the trees and clear the under‐growth on millions of acres of forest in
the West. As we attempt to do that, we need things like 50 747 super tankers to address the immediate problem of
these unrelenting wild fires. And we can't have the Department of HHS issuing misleading, incomplete warnings
regarding the health impact of breathing wild fire smoke. We need full disclosure on that from all medical authorities.
CBS News did a real service by having Dr. Joh Lapook give a more complete warning about that on Saturday, Nov. 17,
2018.

         I noticed that as President Trump, Gov. Brown, Gov.‐elect Newsom talked at the Camp Fire site on Saturday, no
one seemed to remind him that 13 months ago, the wine country in Mendocino, Sonoma, Napa, Solano, and Lake
counties was ravaged by an enormous series of wild fires that destroyed thousands of homes and businesses. This is
now an annual event in California!, like the Rose parade.

        In around 2003 there was a huge fire in southern California that destroyed 3,000 homes, including in Malibu.

        In the fall of 1991, the East Bay hills fire destroyed 3,000 homes and killed 25 people.

         L. William Harding
         Fresno, Ca.




  ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
  From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
  Date: Sat, Nov 17, 2018 at 4:34 PM
  Subject: Fwd: Cal Fire gets some C‐130s with 4000 gal capacity. But needed 747 has 24,000 gals!
  To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>, Dan Richard <danrichard@mac.com>, Daniel Zack
  <daniel.zack@fresno.gov>, <diffenbaugh@stanford.edu>, Doug Vagim <dougvagim@gmail.com>, dennisbalakian
  <dennisbalakian@sbcglobal.net>, David Balakian <davidbalakian@sbcglobal.net>, Mayor <mayor@fresno.gov>, Mark
  Standriff <mark.standriff@fresno.gov>, <midge@thebarretts.com>, Mark Kreutzer <mlkreutzer@yahoo.com>,
  scott.mozier <scott.mozier@fresno.gov>, beachrides <beachrides@sbcglobal.net>, <bearwithme1016@att.net>,
  robert.andersen <robert.andersen@fresno.gov>, bballpod <bballpod@aol.com>, Leodies Buchanan
  <leodiesbuchanan@yahoo.com>, Cathy Lewis <catllewis@gmail.com>, paul.caprioglio <paul.caprioglio@fresno.gov>,
  city.council <city.council@cityofpaloalto.org>, Chris Field <cfield@ciw.edu>, <esmeralda.soria@fresno.gov>, Steven
  Feinstein <steven.feinstein@ionicmaterials.com>, <francis.collins@nih.gov>, <fmerlo@wildelectric.net>,
  huidentalsanmateo <huidentalsanmateo@gmail.com>, steve.hogg <steve.hogg@fresno.gov>, hennessy

                                                              4
<hennessy@stanford.edu>, <info@superide1.com>, Irv Weissman <irv@stanford.edu>, jerry ruopoli
<jrwiseguy7@gmail.com>, Joel Stiner <jastiner@gmail.com>, kfsndesk <kfsndesk@abc.com>, <kwalsh@kmaxtv.com>,
kclark <kclark@westlandswater.org>, leager <leager@fresnoedc.com>, Tom Lang <tlang@aquariusaquarium.org>,
<nchase@bayareanewsgroup.com>, newsdesk <newsdesk@ksee.com>, <pavenjitdhillon@yahoo.com>, popoff
<popoff@pbworld.com>, <russ@topperjewelers.com>, Steve Wayte <steve4liberty@gmail.com>, terry
<terry@terrynagel.com>, Jason Tarvin <jasontarvin@gmail.com>, Mark Waldrep <mwaldrep@aixmediagroup.com>,
<yicui@stanford.edu>




‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Sat, Nov 17, 2018 at 3:43 PM
Subject: Fwd: Cal Fire gets some C‐130s with 4000 gal capacity. But needed 747 has 24,000 gals!
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>




‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Sat, Nov 17, 2018 at 2:49 PM
Subject: Re: Cal Fire gets some C‐130s with 4000 gal capacity. But needed 747 has 24,000 gals!
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>


         Saturday, Nov. 17, 2018

        To all‐ Now we have ~77 dead in the "Camp Fire" in Paradise, Ca. and over a thousand missing. Most of them
are probably dead too.

         The other day the U.S. Secretary of the Interior visited the site of the fire and said "this is unsustainable". I
have merely said that the health impacts of these relentless fires in California will cause the economy of California,
and certainly that of the Central Valley of Calif., to collapse. As all of the people with the big‐gun educations leave to
protect their health, the economy will collapse.

        Today at 9:45 AM PT, AF1 landed in northern Calif. bearing Trump. He and Gov. Brown and Gov. elect
Newsom then boarded Marine 1 to view the destruction caused by the Camp Fire. So reported KCBS SF this
morning. It is the largest and deadliest wildfire in Calif. history.

           KCBS also says this morning that the U.S Department of Health and Human Services has declared a medical
emergency in that part of Calif. or maybe beyond too. Why was not made clear. There have been outbreaks of
norovirus in shelters in recent days in that area. Whether the declaration relates to the norovirus or to the horrific
health effects breathing wildfire smoke, mixed with asbestos, heavy metals, plastics, etc. when structures burn, was
not clear. (It is now. It was to warn about the health effects, some of them anyway, of breathing wild fire smoke‐ LH).
If there is a shred of decency, honesty and competence in the Department, they will declare such an emergency
throughout most of California due to the effects on the population from breathing wild fire smoke for weeks on end.
And they will include and warn about the cardiac effects.

       On Thursday evening, Nov. 15, 2018, Channel 30 news in Fresno reported that the AQI here was 152 and that
an Air Quality Warning was in effect for the San Joaquin Valley. AND AND that burning was prohibited only in Merced
and Kings Counties in the Central Valley of California. The weather man went through this news very quickly, just
                                                            5
glossed over it, so that many would not notice it. "There's no burning in Merced and Kings Counties", he said quickly.
Like that is not big news!! Can you believe what you are reading? The air is just thick with wildfire smoke, and people
in most counties here are still allowed to burn their fireplaces. ARE ALLOWED to! The AGs of California and the U.S.
should charge the people running the San Joaquin Valley Air Quality Control Board with felonies for this. There is
something severely wrong at the SJVAQCB if they are allowing fireplace burning in the midst of this crisis! By Sunday
night, Nov. 18, 2018, no burning was allowed in Merced, Madera, Fresno, Kings, and Tulare counties.

      Yesterday, Friday, Nov. 16, 2018, I drove from Fresno to San Mateo and then down to the Stanford Shopping
Center and to the Stanford Movie Theatre in Palo Alto. I have never before seen what I saw on that drive. Out across
the Central Valley on Hwy 152, from Hwy 99 west to Gilroy, a distance of 83 miles, the sky was a deep grey or black
beyond the one or two miles one could see. A thick black blanket was all one could see beyond that distance. KCBS is
saying the AQI in the Bay Area was 150 yesterday, and 215 in Livermore. At the Stanford Shopping Center, on Stanford
land, many people were wearing masks last night.

        Before he left Washington, D.C. this morning to come to California, Trump said into the mics that the cause of
all these horrific wildfires in California is poor forest management. KCBS said in response this morning that half of the
forests in California are managed by the U.S. Forest Service, a quarter are managed by the State of California, and a
quarter are in private hands.

          It is true that for decades the management of Calif's forests has been criticized by experts. Too much fuel is
allowed to grow and the fires are huge as a result. Before the 20th C. probably, fires were allowed to burn themselves
out. In recent decades, until the 4 or 5 year drought in California, and the drier, warmer conditions, lower humidity,
drier undergrowth and drier trees caused by climate change, we would jump on small fires and put them out, and that
allowed the fuel to build up. Those fires were manageable then because the trees were green, wet and alive and the
air was more humid. BUT what Mr. Trump is ignoring is that a four‐year drought in Calif. starting ~2013, killed 129
million trees just in the Sierra. The Bark beetle killed many too. AND climate change has produced drier trees and
undergrowth and lower humidity, and warmer temperatures, making big fires more likely. Combine those factors with
all of the fuel build‐up, and you get the enormous fires that we are getting now. All of this is told to Trump by his
experts and he ignores all of that. Either his experts are incompetent, or he is a liar. I think sometimes that he enjoys
angering the American people.

        I call again on the Calif. Department of Public Health, the Governor of California, the CDC, NIH, federal and
state EPAs, the U.S. Surgeon General, and HHS to issue warnings of the drastic impact on human health of breathing
wild fire smoke for months on end, as millions of Californians are now doing. Sens. Feinstein and Harris should hold
hearings and cause the federal agencies to own up to these health impacts and then make that information public.
The people have a right to know when their health is being seriously damaged by the air they breath and our
government agencies are lying about this. When this information is disclosed, the economy of California will collapse,
and so they are lying about it. Trump is now a menace to the people of California with his tap‐dance about bad forest
management practices. His lying about this will not save the economy of California from collapse.

        What to do instead of all the lying? I renew my call for the State and/or federal governments to buy and
convert 50 747s to tankers to fight wild fires in the west. At $100 million each to buy and convert, 50 of them would
cost $5 billion. That could be taken from the corrupt, obscene defense budget of Trump of $716 billion. If the States
have to pay for them, if Oregon, Washington, Idaho, Montana, Wyoming, Colorado and New Mexico shared the cost,
it would be manageable. I leave out Arizona, Nevada and Utah because I don't think they have vast areas of forest.
Maybe they do have. The bone‐yards are full of old 747s and airlines around the world want to get rid of the ones they
are still flying. A 747 tanker can carry 19,000 gal. of retardant and Cal Fire has access to exactly one of them at this
point.

         Here is an informative article re where the boneyards are for the 747s and what airlines are still flying them
around the world:


                                                           6
           http://www.traveller.com.au/aircraft‐boneyard‐where‐will‐all‐the‐old‐boeing‐747‐jumbo‐jets‐go‐h0eyc3

           Add a fleet of small planes patrolling constantly with infra‐red detectors to spot fires when they are small.

            Also, place in our forests smoke detectors, wind , temp. and humidity detectors, and cameras and GPS with
satellite transmitters, and we could get a handle on these fires when they are small. Silicon Valley could design and
produce a device with all of that easily.

         L. William Harding
         Fresno, Ca.




  From Doug Vagim in Fresno to me:

On Mon, Nov 12, 2018 at 3:28 PM Doug Vagim <dvagim@gmail.com> wrote:
 Also, there's the military C5A, the second largest cargo plane in the world. The largest I believe was built by the
 Soviets, (Russia still using) that can carry, I think, the country of Lithuania or something...

 There's boneyards all over the Southwest with the C5A military transport's waiting for possible reuse and eventual
 dismantling. The ability of carrying another 14,000 pounds over the 747 can go far to get to that last little burn area,
 but again you're on the right track.

 The ability to convert these airframes into firefighting airtanker's, that are just sitting there rotting in the Bone Yard
 waiting for the acetylene torch, why not reuse them in between them getting to that point in their life.

 D
      Also from Mr. Vagim:

 On Mon, Nov 12, 2018, 2:37 PM Doug Vagim <dvagim@gmail.com> wrote:
  Yes, driving east from Bakersfield through Mohave you can see a few airplane storage yards with 747 parked all over
  the place. Probably a few dozen just begging to be reused for some purpose. I think the state or feds could pickup
  one or more on the cheap...

  D

  On Mon, Nov 12, 2018, 2:18 PM Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org> wrote:
      Mon. Nov.12, 2018

         Doug‐ Thanks for this. They have thrown the heavyweight 747 into the fight. Hope my prodding had
     something to do with it. Now imagine if they had 50 of them.

             If they do buy and convert 50, they'll have to lengthen runways, build hangars for them, at several places in
     Calif. and the other states. Maybe have one big maintenance facility. Pre‐position vast amounts of retardant‐ it's
     probably a powder‐ wherever the planes will be flying from. I don't see how any fire could stand up to 35 dumps
     per day at 19,000 gal. each of retardant for too many days. True enough, smoke can limit their ops since they go in
     low. Maybe a flight every 30 minutes on a fire since the wash from a big plane can cause a following plane to crash,
     as happened in Queens shortly after 911.

            LH


                                                             7
On Mon, Nov 12, 2018 at 5:02 AM Doug Vagim <dvagim@gmail.com> wrote:

World's largest air tanker joins fight...

On Sat, Nov 10, 2018 at 2:47 PM Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org> wrote:


 ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
 From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
 Date: Sat, Nov 10, 2018 at 1:10 PM
 Subject: Fwd: Cal Fire gets some C‐130s with 4000 gal capacity. But needed 747 has 24,000 gals!
 To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>


       Saturday, Nov. 10, 2018

         To all‐

          I sent the email below on Sun., Sept. 9, 2018, some two months ago when California had several huge
 wildfires burning. I re‐iterate every word I wrote then. Now, Saturday, Nov. 10, 2018, California is burning again.
 Still not one word from Governor Brown, Sen. Diane Feinstein, Sen. Kamala Harris, Cal Fire management, the
 California Dept. of Public Health, the California EPA, the U.S. EPA, CDC, NIH, the U.S. Surgeon General or HHS
 about the serious health impact of breathing wildfire smoke for months on end. These individuals and agencies
 have access to that information, and they are keeping it quiet. They should be sued for that and charged
 criminally for it. Our government has failed. Maybe we need a new government.

         On Thursday, Nov. 7, 2018, mighty KCBS in San Francisco, AM 740, was reporting in the late morning a
 large, 10,000 acre wildfire near the town of Paradise, Ca., near Chico Ca. in northern Calif. I watched the noon
 news here in Fresno that day on Ch. 47, the CBS affiliate here. They did not mention this fire. I then called the
 news room at Ch. 47 and told the man who answered about the fire and suggested that Ch. 47 News listen to
 KCBS in San Francisco to hear the news. By 7 PM, Ch. 47 was reporting the fire. Now, two days later, that "Camp
 Fire" in Paradise, Calif. in Butte Co. has virtually leveled the entire town of Paradise, Ca. Seven people have died
 in the fire there so far and it has reached 140 square miles. 6,400 structures have been destroyed. It is already
 called the most destructive wild fire in California history. Had Ch. 47 in Fresno reported the fire on Thursday on
 their noon news, viewers in the Central Valley who had relatives and friends in Paradise might have called them
 and warned them to get out.

       Also today, huge wild fires are burning in Ventura Co. and Los Angeles Co., Calif. Thousand Oaks and
 Malibu have had a quarter of a million residents evacuate. Two are dead from the fires there, KCBS reported at
 11:10 AM this morning. The "Camp Fire" in N. Calif. is putting smoke into the Bay Area, and, I can attest by
 looking out of my window in Fresno, into the Central Valley.

        Because of dry conditions and offshore winds, there is a "red flag warning" in the North Bay Area and East
 Bay Area hills until tomorrow night, and in the Santa Cruz Mountains. Spare the Air restrictions are in effect in
 the Bay Area too. KCBS reported on Thursday that smoke from the Camp Fire could be seen in the Bay Area, 150
 miles away. Now, residents in the Bay Area are breathing it.

          A spokesman for Cal Fire said today that fire crews from all over northern California will be fighting the
 fire in Butte Co. for weeks. What if we had 50 747 tankers dropping 19,000 gallons of retardant on these fires
 with each pass? The fires would not take anything like weeks to put out. I have heard not ONE comment from Cal
 Fire or any other agency, state or federal, in response for my call to buy and convert 50 747s to tanker duty, and
 to do the other things I suggest in my email below. Mum is the word! The top people at Cal Fire should all be

                                                       8
fired. They are incompetent, or worse. They prefer to fight these fires with thousands of men with shovels for
weeks on end, and with aircraft a lot smaller than a 747.

       Trump is in Paris this weekend. His new "defense" budget is $716 billion. $5 billion would probably buy
and convert 50 more 747s for tanker duty. They could be available in California, Oregon, Washington, Idaho,
Montana, Wyoming, Colorado and New Mexico. These planes can move around at nearly 600 mph. But Trump
won't lift a finger to address this dire situation. He's taking a "Let 'em hang" approach to the California wild fires,
as are California's two U.S. Senators and Governor Brown. As are California's representatives in the House. As are
members of the California legislature. They're all too busy out shopping, I guess, to concern themselves with the
health of the people they represent.

       I predict that the economy of the Central Valley of California, if not that of the entire state, will collapse
due to these unrelenting wild fires. Breathing wild fire smoke is dangerous to one's health. The smoke goes from
the lungs into the bloodstream, and, via that, to the brain, heart, liver, pancreas, etc. Your lungs are not just two
bags of air in your chest. They are vascularized. The blood pumped through them exchanges gases there, CO2 for
O2,most prominantly. Nobody with a big‐gun education who can make money anywhere is going to stay here
and expose themselves to this. If all of the physicians, pharmacists, nurses, engineers, dentists, professors,
management people pull out of here, who will want to live here? Who would locate a business here? Property
values will plunge. When the banks and grocery stores all leave, Fresno will be the Detroit of the West.

         Cal Fire says that we no longer have a "fire season" in California. The danger is now year‐round. And, it is
said, if you own a home in California, you are now living in a fire zone. When the cost of fire insurance becomes
prohibitive, I guess you are finished as a California home‐owner.

       The people of California should put pressure on their electeds to address the unrelenting wild fires we
now have every few weeks. Those 50 747 tankers, a fleet of small planes looking for fires with IR, smoke
detectors in the forests, maybe even fire lookout stations again, might be a good place to start. What we have
now is a complete break down of government in California.

       L. William Harding
       Fresno, Ca.




‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Sun, Sep 9, 2018 at 4:00 PM
Subject: Fwd: Cal Fire gets some C‐130s with 4000 gal capacity. But needed 747 has 24,000 gals!
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>, dennisbalakian <dennisbalakian@sbcglobal.net>, David
Balakian <davidbalakian@sbcglobal.net>, Dan Richard <danrichard@mac.com>, Doug Vagim
<dvagim@gmail.com>, Daniel Zack <daniel.zack@fresno.gov>, Mayor <mayor@fresno.gov>, city.council
<city.council@cityofpaloalto.org>, terry <terry@terrynagel.com>, <esmeralda.soria@fresno.gov>, paul.caprioglio
<paul.caprioglio@fresno.gov>, Mark Kreutzer <mlkreutzer@yahoo.com>, Mark Standriff
<mark.standriff@fresno.gov>, scott.mozier <scott.mozier@fresno.gov>, <mmt4@pge.com>, kfsndesk
<kfsndesk@abc.com>, newsdesk <newsdesk@cbs47.tv>, <kwalsh@kmaxtv.com>, Joel Stiner
<jastiner@gmail.com>, beachrides <beachrides@sbcglobal.net>, Leodies Buchanan
<leodiesbuchanan@yahoo.com>, Cathy Lewis <catllewis@gmail.com>, nick yovino <npyovino@gmail.com>,
huidentalsanmateo <huidentalsanmateo@gmail.com>, <info@superide1.com>, <midge@thebarretts.com>,
Steve Wayte <steve4liberty@gmail.com>, steve.hogg <steve.hogg@fresno.gov>, robert.andersen
<robert.andersen@fresno.gov>, <fmerlo@wildelectric.net>, Chris Field <cfield@ciw.edu>,

                                                       9
<diffenbaugh@stanford.edu>, hennessy <hennessy@stanford.edu>, bballpod <bballpod@aol.com>, popoff
<popoff@pbworld.com>, <mthibodeaux@electriclaboratories.com>, <blackstone@blastfitness.com>, Steven
Feinstein <steven.feinstein@ionicmaterials.com>, <pavenjitdhillon@yahoo.com>, <francis.collins@nih.gov>,
<parsons@brandman.edu>, jerry ruopoli <jrwiseguy7@gmail.com>, <russ@topperjewelers.com>, Raymond
Rivas <financialadvisor007@gmail.com>, <shanhui.fan@stanford.edu>, steve.brandau
<steve.brandau@fresno.gov>, Tom Lang <tlang@aquariusaquarium.org>, Jason Tarvin
<jasontarvin@gmail.com>, Mark Waldrep <mwaldrep@aixmediagroup.com>, <yicui@stanford.edu>



‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Sun, Sep 9, 2018 at 2:29 PM
Subject: Fwd: Cal Fire gets some C‐130s with 4000 gal capacity. But needed 747 has 24,000 gals!
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>



‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Sun, Sep 9, 2018 at 2:20 PM
Subject: Fwd: Cal Fire gets some C‐130s with 4000 gal capacity. But needed 747 has 24,000 gals!
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>



‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Sun, Sep 9, 2018 at 1:29 PM
Subject: Fwd: Cal Fire gets some C‐130s with 4000 gal capacity. But needed 747 has 24,000 gals!
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>



‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Sun, Sep 9, 2018 at 12:56 PM
Subject: Fwd: Cal Fire gets some C‐130s with 4000 gal capacity. But needed 747 has 24,000 gals!
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>



‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Sun, Sep 9, 2018 at 12:08 PM
Subject: Fwd: Cal Fire gets some C‐130s with 4000 gal capacity. But needed 747 has 24,000 gals!
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>



‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Sun, Sep 9, 2018 at 2:53 AM
                                                   10
Subject: Fwd: Cal Fire gets some C‐130s with 4000 gal capacity. But needed 747 has 24,000 gals!
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>



‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Sun, Sep 9, 2018 at 2:42 AM
Subject: Fwd: Cal Fire gets some C‐130s with 4000 gal capacity. But needed 747 has 24,000 gals!
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>



‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Sun, Sep 9, 2018 at 2:39 AM
Subject: Re: Cal Fire gets some C‐130s with 4000 gal capacity. But needed 747 has 24,000 gals!
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>




On Sun, Sep 9, 2018 at 2:30 AM, Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org> wrote:


        Sunday, Sept. 9, 2018

        To all‐

       Here is info. re the one 747 "Evergreen Supertanker" used by Cal Fire to fight wild fires. This says it can
 carry 19,000 gal. of retardant. If true, that is still 4.7 times what the C‐130s will be able to carry, when they have
 been retrofitted a year from now.

         https://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2018/07/26/cal‐fire‐supertanker‐battling‐wildfires‐747‐california/

         And here is the "Firefighting Aircraft Recognition Guide" on the Cal Fire website. This is interesting:

         http://www.fire.ca.gov/communications/downloads/AviationGuide_FINAL_web.pdf

          Here we see some different numbers re retardant capacity for the aircraft. We see that the C‐130 can
carry 3,000 gal. of retardant, not 4,000, and that the 747 can carry 24,000 gal., not 19,000. The DC‐10 can carry
12,000 gal. But look at the huge additional capacity of the 747 over any other plane.

        I have all due respect for Cal Fire, and I know that they operate on the budget they are given, but we
 need a LOT more than the seven C‐130s coming a year from now. We need 50 of the 747 tankers. Boeing quit
 producing the 747 a few years ago when a stretch version did not sell well. Airlines are getting away from big
 four engine transports. Two engine planes are now safe to operate over oceans and no doubt cost less to
 operate.

         As a result, there are plenty of 747s out there to be bought and converted to the tanker role.

        We need 50 747s as soon as they can be bought and retrofitted for tanker duty. California is in a crisis.
 The Central Valley is going to become dangerous for human habitation due to the health impact of breathing
                                                      11
 wild fire smoke. That might start to apply to more than the Central Valley of California. It is applying to the San
 Francisco Bay Area the weekend of Nov. 17, 2018.

           Cal Fire does a great job given the resources it has, but what it has is way too little. It should not take
 weeks to put out a wild fire, and that is what it is taking, over and over. We spend almost $2 billion per day on
 the military, with no one a credible threat to us. We need to get our heads unstuck and start spending some of
 that money on critical needs here in the U.S. Fleets of 747s repurposed as retardant tankers should be a high
 priority there.

          I know that State employees can only say so much by way of criticizing the Governor and legislature on
the topic of the resources they are provided before they find themselves in trouble. Somehow, though, they
should speak out.

           KCBS SF, broadcasting the truth into California's Central Valley, reports this morning, Sun. Sept. 9, 2018,
that the Mendocino Complex fire in Mendocino, Lake and other counties, is finally under control. It burned for
well over a month and burned 550 square miles(!), making it the largest wildfire in California history. I believe
that if Cal Fire had had 50 747 tankers that the fire could have been contained in less time than it was.

          KCBS SF is also reporting a new fire this morning in Napa County. That will put smoke into the Bay Area
as well as into the Central Valley. And no word on how progress is being made today on the Delta Fire near I‐5
near the Oregon border.

        We should have a fleet of small planes with infrared equipment patrolling constantly looking for fires.
 The Sierras are 400 miles long. They and other areas could be covered by a few planes with infrared. All fire
 prone areas of California should be patrolled by these planes.

       We should install sensors in the forests with smoke detectors, cameras, heat and humidity sensors, wind
 measurement devices, and GPS to detect and report wild fires early on. We have smoke detectors in our homes
 and businesses. Why not in our forests?

          Where is the California Department of Public health with information re the health impact of breathing
wild fire smoke for weeks on end with each new fire? The federal health agencies are being silent on this, and
the state agency is as well. We need the truth and our federal and state health agencies are keeping mum.
People should be fired for this cover‐up. One Fresno TV station one night had a doctor on who discussed the
health impact, and he was talking about heart attacks from breathing wild fire smoke. More such reports from
qualified medical experts should be broadcast by local TV stations in places like Fresno, or the stations should
lose their broadcast licenses.

       Here is the brief information shown on the CDC website regarding wild fire smoke and human health. It
seems to downplay the risk, in my opinion:

        https://www.cdc.gov/disasters/wildfires/smoke.html

        Since "affirmative action" is so great, I want to see frequent, complete and honest ads on TV put out by
the CDC on the impact of breathing wild fire smoke for many weeks on end and year after year, as residents of
California's Central Valley are doing. Some skimpy information buried on the CDCs website is insufficient
warning to the public.

        Sen. Feinstein and Sen. Harris should require our federal health agencies to start warning the public in
California about the health impact of breathing wild fire smoke for months on end every year. I am not aware of
any statements by either of them on this topic. Our representatives in the House should be doing the same.


                                                      12
       Where is Gov. Brown wrt to getting information to the citizens of California re the health impacts of
breathing wild fire smoke? He has access to every State employee and all outside experts. NOT ONE WORD has
been heard from him on this topic. He is remiss in not providing information here.

        Some people running for Congress are just hopeless here too. One, Janz, says he will fight for water in
California if elected. A third‐grader could have written that campaign slogan, when the State is just being
devastated by wild fires. I don't think much of people running for Congress who have the mind of a third‐grader.
Lazy, don't even think, just get into Congress. As we saw in the Senate Judiciary Committee hearings for Judge
Kavanaugh, many of them are better than that. BTW, those hearings were so interesting that Congress should
make them available, in total, on a DVD.

       Of course, not one word from the Mayor of Fresno or the members of the Fresno City Council. They have
budgets. Why not some information re the health effects of breathing wild fire smoke for months on end after
they consult some medical authorities. I guess we can't expect that when the rich Republicans who put them in
office have their on‐air people at the Fresno TV stations lie about the health impact of breathing wild fire smoke.
The Fresno City Council will soon consider a major expansion of Fresno‐Yosemite Airport. We will indeed need
that to enable the better educated residents here to flee out of here if we cannot better control the wild fires.


       L. William Harding
       Fresno, Ca.


 ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
 From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
 Date: Sat, Sep 8, 2018 at 2:54 PM
 Subject: Fwd: Cal Fire gets some C‐130s with 4000 gal capacity. But needed 747 has 24,000 gals!
 To: dennisbalakian <dennisbalakian@sbcglobal.net>, David Balakian <davidbalakian@sbcglobal.net>, Dan
 Richard <danrichard@mac.com>, Doug Vagim <dvagim@gmail.com>, Daniel Zack <daniel.zack@fresno.gov>,
 Mayor <mayor@fresno.gov>, "city.council" <city.council@cityofpaloalto.org>, terry <terry@terrynagel.com>,
 esmeralda.soria@fresno.gov, "paul.caprioglio" <paul.caprioglio@fresno.gov>, Mark Kreutzer
 <mlkreutzer@yahoo.com>, Mark Standriff <mark.standriff@fresno.gov>, kfsndesk <kfsndesk@abc.com>,
 newsdesk <newsdesk@cbs47.tv>, kwalsh@kmaxtv.com, Joel Stiner <jastiner@gmail.com>, beachrides
 <beachrides@sbcglobal.net>, Leodies Buchanan <leodiesbuchanan@yahoo.com>, Cathy Lewis
 <catllewis@gmail.com>, nick yovino <npyovino@gmail.com>, huidentalsanmateo
 <huidentalsanmateo@gmail.com>, info@superide1.com, midge@thebarretts.com, Steve Wayte
 <steve4liberty@gmail.com>, "steve.hogg" <steve.hogg@fresno.gov>, "scott.mozier"
 <scott.mozier@fresno.gov>, "robert.andersen" <robert.andersen@fresno.gov>, fmerlo@wildelectric.net



 ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
 From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
 Date: Sat, Sep 8, 2018 at 2:18 PM
 Subject: Fwd: Cal Fire gets some C‐130s with 4000 gal capacity. But needed 747 has 24,000 gals!
 To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>



 ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
 From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
 Date: Sat, Sep 8, 2018 at 2:09 PM
 Subject: Fwd: Cal Fire gets some C‐130s with 4000 gal capacity. But needed 747 has 24,000 gals!
                                                     13
 To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>



 ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
 From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
 Date: Sat, Sep 8, 2018 at 1:47 PM
 Subject: Fwd: Cal Fire gets some C‐130s with 4000 gal capacity. But needed 747 has 24,000 gals!
 To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>



 ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
 From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
 Date: Sat, Sep 8, 2018 at 12:29 PM
 Subject: Cal Fire gets some C‐130s with 4000 gal capacity. But needed 747 has 24,000 gals!
 To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>


       Sat. Sept. 8, 2018

       To all‐

       Cal Fire is getting seven C‐130s given to them by the Coast Guard. They can carry 4,000 gallons of
 retardant. A BIG deal is made by Cal Fire that they will be the only fire fighting agency with its own fleet of C‐
 130s. It was a tough, big deal that had to be brokered by Senator Diane Feinstein, and it still needs final
 approval by Congress, this implies. The 747 tanker can carry 24,000 gallons of retardant, twice what the DC‐10
 tanker can carry and six times what a C‐130 can carry.

      https://www.sfgate.com/california‐wildfires/article/Water‐rescue‐aircraft‐set‐to‐join‐Cal‐Fire‐fleet‐
 13107572.php#photo‐13613987

          I am confused as to why this had to be brokered in tough negotiations by Diane Feinstein!! California is
 burning, people are dying, the wildfire smoke we are forced to breath here is dangerous and deadly to our
 health, and it takes something like the Paris Peace Accords to get seven old C‐130s for Cal Fire. Then, they talk
 about setting records in that they are the first fire‐fighting agency to have them!! Get off the record‐setting
 stuff and do your job! Top people at Cal Fire should be fired. Ironic wordage, isn't it. They should be
 demonstrating outside the White House and the Calif. State House, wearing hoods if necessary, and be all over
 TV denouncing Gov. Brown and Pres. Trump, and demanding a fleet of the 50 747 tankers. They look so calm
 and collected! Big rich salaries, great benes, great job security. We, the people of California, don't like having
 our health seriously imperiled by wild fires that rage for weeks or months if more resources would enable you
 to put them out faster. What, me worry? You folks at the top of Cal Fire, demand 50 747 tankers as fast as they
 can be bought and readied with a 24‐7 effort. Trump has crowed that the new $716 billion DOD budget is the
 largest in history, to enrich his pals in the defense industry, so the money is available. We have a sadist for a
 President. That can be changed with a good impeachment. On top of everything else, he should be impeached
 for ignoring the crisis in California and other western states caused by wild fires. Every expert agrees that this
 crisis is a result of climate change, and Trump wants to produce more coal in electoral college vote‐rich states
 like Ohio.

        We should see AF1 fly into California with Pres. Trump and hear him announce that $25 billion will be
taken from the defense budget and spent to suppress the wild fires damaging people's health in California and
other western states. His failure to do so creates the image of a President hunkered down in the WH trying to lie

                                                     14
his way out of an impeachment, and wasting huge amounts of money to enrich his Republican pals in the
defense industry. As stupid as we may seem to him, we can arrange for an impeachment.

        How can Cal Fire officials not have noticed that California is in a crisis with these unrelenting wild fires?
 Another huge fire is burning today near the Oregon border, the Delta fire. 24,000 acres burned over 38 sq. miles
 as of last night, with zero containment. This fire too will fill the Central Valley of Calif. with deadly wild fire
 smoke. We've had a few days of clearer skies with the Car Fire, the Mendocino Complex Fire and the Ferguson
 Fire under control. Here we go again though.

      Rich Republican Trump is REALLY biting now in his display of total contempt for the people with his
 astronomical DOD budget. Congress should peel off $5 billion to buy and retrofit 50 747s to serve as tankers in
 the west fighting wild fires.

       If the Japanese, Chinese, Russians or Germans airlifted 80 divisions of infantry into the Central Valley some
night, official Washington would react to it. They would at least talk about it. We have a crisis in California now
and we don't even get talk from Washington about this one. We need talk followed by action, and action now, to
quote FDR from his first inaugural. .

      Because of the horrific health impact of breathing wild fire smoke for months on end every summer now in
 the Central Valley of California, which produces 25% of the food consumed in the U.S., I believe that the CV is
 rapidly becoming unfit for human habitation. As that happens, the economy here will collapse, an event of
 great interest to rich Republicans everywhere. What company is going to locate facilities here if the air is
 dangerous to breath.? If their top people start quitting to get out of here, they will reconsider having operations
 here. Who would move here now? Only the IQ challenged, and we have enough of them here now, many of
 them holding elected office. If all of the big‐gun physicians leave, who will want to live here? These people can
 make money anywhere, and they won't endanger their health and that of their families if out of control wild
 fires that rage for weeks on end are now a permanent feature here.

      The rich Republican scum who own the TV stations in Fresno are having their on‐air people lie to minimize
 the health impact of breathing wild fire smoke for months every year. They do not broadcast in the public
 interest. They broadcast in the interest of the Republican business community here, and they should lose their
 broadcast license for it. We should see numerous interviews with medical experts being broadcast. Stanford
 Medical Center has experts who could lay out the dangers in detail. Stanford is 165 miles from NW Fresno.
 There are medical experts right here in Fresno who could do the same.

        Here is information about the new re‐fueling tanker plane the Air Force is buying, the KC‐46. It will replace
 the KC‐135. The federal government should convert the retiring KC‐135s to fight wild fires, and do it on a crash
 basis.

       https://www.businessinsider.com/mattis‐warning‐boeing‐air‐force‐kc‐46‐tanker‐program‐2017‐12

       I have yet to hear one word from any member of Congress from California about the horrific health
 impact of breathing wild fire smoke. They are not doing their jobs. They should issue reports about the health
 impacts and demand a hugely stepped effort to control wild fires in California. They should demand that the
 FCC tell the TV station owners in Fresno Ca. to stop lying about the health impacts of wild fire smoke on their
 viewers and threaten them with and impose license revocation if they don't stop lying about it.

      Where is the U.S. Surgeon General on this, the CDC and the NIH? Let's have a stream of reports and
 warnings about the health impact of wild fire smoke on the people of California and other western states.
 People at the top of these agencies should be fired for their silence. President Trump should order them to
 issue comprehensive, and regular, public statements. If he won't do that, he should be fired.


                                                     15
      A $716 billion defense budget is an obscenity, given all that the American people need.

      I like some of what Pres. Trump has done: Build the wall to stop unlimited illegal immigration into the
United States. Renegotiate trade deals to stop the outflow of all manufacturing jobs from the United States to
Mexico and China. Retaliate for China's theft of intellectual property. He is not a big proponent of the Nazi
Affirmative Action laws of the United States. Cause the countries of Europe to shoulder more of the cost of
NATO, but his DOD budget does not reflect that.

       His enormous $5 trillion tax cut which benefits the wealthy and big corporations is an obscenity. His
efforts to end ObamaCare, destroy the unions, outlaw abortion and contraception, put university education out
of reach for all but the wealthy, are all obscenities.

     If he murders 58,000 young Americans, as Johnson and Nixon did, he will be removed from office by the
American people, as were Johnson and Nixon for doing that.


      L. William Harding
      Fresno, Ca.




                                                   16
Carnahan, David

From:               Leo Povolotsky <leopovolhoa@gmail.com>
Sent:               Thursday, November 15, 2018 11:08 PM
To:                 Council, City; Clerk, City; Architectural Review Board; Price@padailypost.com; editor@paweekly.com;
                    Victoria.Nguyen@nbcuni.com; jawatts@kpix.cbs.com
Cc:                 Jeanne Fleming
Subject:            Fwd: Cell Towers Update: Corruption at City Hall


Dear All:

We are concerned about the information provided in the following email and would like it to be brought to a clear and
unambiguous resolution, so we would know that the decisions made by our City Council are untainted.



Sincerely,

Leo Povolotsky
Palo Alto resident for 27years,
HOA Board Member for 7years



‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded Message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
Subject:Cell Towers Update: Corruption at City Hall
    Date:Thu, 15 Nov 2018 17:04:27 ‐0800
   From:Jeanne Fleming <jfleming@metricus.net>
       To:JFLEMING@METRICUS.NET
       CC:'Jyotsna Nimkar' <jnimkar@gmail.com>, jerry.fan@gmail.com




Dear Neighbors,

As we believe you know, the telecommunications industry has been paying for Jonathan Reichental,
Palo Alto’s Chief Technical Officer and Chief Information Officer, to take expensive junkets all over
the world. Meanwhile, he has been using his executive position at City Hall to influence the City’s
dealings with the telecommunications industry. This includes shaping the City’s response to the
applications telecom companies have made to install cell towers in our residential neighborhoods.

Jeanne has now filed a complaint with the California Fair Political Practices Commission reporting Dr.
Reichental’s unethical and unlawful behavior. Her complaint is the subject of a story in the Mercury
News, which you can read here (it may not appear in print until tomorrow):

 https://www.mercurynews.com/2018/11/15/complaint-accuses-palo-altos-top-tech-official-of-taking-
28-junkets-paid-by-firms-linked-to-city-business/

                                                           1
While we know this is a busy time of year for everyone, we hope you can spare a few moments to do
three things:

   1. Add a comment expressing your views to the comments on the Mercury News story.

      Doing so will signal to the paper that this is a story of interest to their readers—a story worthy
      of a follow-up or two. Adding a comment will also send a signal to City Hall, where we know
      the story is being monitored, that Jonathan Reichental’s misconduct is an issue residents care
      about.

   2. Email City Council (City.Council@cityofpaloalto.org), copying the City Clerk
      (City.Clerk@cityofpaloalto.org) and the Architectural Review Board (arb@cityofpaloalto.org),
      and ask Council 1) to reverse its approval of the Verizon/Vinculums Cluster 1 cell towers and
      2) to halt the cell tower application review process until there has been a full investigation of
      Jonathan Reichental’s actions. We, the residents of Palo Alto, were not given a level playing
      field on which to make our case about neighborhood cell towers. City Council needs to level
      the playing field and rehear the case.

   3. Email the editor of the Daily Post (Price@padailypost.com), the editor of the Palo Alto Weekly
      (editor@paweekly.com), Vicky Nguyen of NBC Bay Area (Victoria.Nguyen@nbcuni.com) and
      Julie Watts of KPIX (jawatts@kpix.cbs.com) and ask them to please cover this important story
      of corruption at City Hall. A one sentence email to each of them would be fine.

As always, thank you for your on-going support and consideration.

Jeanne, Jyo & Jerry

For United Neighbors




                                                   2
Carnahan, David

From:               Monica Yeung Arima <myarima@gmail.com>
Sent:               Friday, November 16, 2018 11:57 PM
To:                 Council, City; City Mgr; Ray &amp Anneke Dempsey
Subject:            Fwd: Someone has commented on Traffic congestion or traffic safety concern #5093558



FYI.

Best       regards,
Monica Yeung Arima
Yarkin Realty (LIC 01185969)
650 888-4116 (Cell)
650 215-9914 (Home Office eFax)
Website: http://www.myarima.com

‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
From: Monica Yeung Arima <myarima@gmail.com>
Date: Fri, Nov 16, 2018 at 11:52 PM
Subject: Re: Someone has commented on Traffic congestion or traffic safety concern #5093558
To: Michael Flexer <michael.flexer@gmail.com>



Hi Michael,

Thanks! It would be helpful if you also submit your comments to
the city manager and city council as well. People live at the
corner know how many accidents we have there. The amount of
accidents there were so much that it is uncalled for not doing
anything, but since there is no reports created by the police
department because either it was not reported or they don't
issue a police report. It almost feel like there's an accident
once every week. I do not care if it is a stop sign or a

                                                         1
roundabout. Something need to be done before someone get
hurt badly.

In addition to my car accident with a biker years ago, we have a
Stanford student drove into our "parked" minivan on the
sidewalk. Our van of 15 years was total and so does her zip car.
Her hand was hurt probably by her cell phone. I believe this one
was on record because the police need to break into her car in
order to quiet the alarm. Our minivan was bought when my son
was in preschool, not used very much. It was mainly used as a
vehicle to bus students on field trips if anyone of you
remembered that. When the accident happened, our minivan
was only 60,000+ miles even it was a 15 years old minivan.

Please give evidence to the city as of the frequency of
accidents at Bryant and Lincoln, so they realize the significance
of the issues.

Best     regards,
Monica Yeung Arima
Yarkin Realty (LIC 01185969)
650 888-4116 (Cell)
650 215-9914 (Home Office eFax)
Website: http://www.myarima.com

On Fri, Nov 16, 2018 at 2:33 PM Michael Flexer <michael.flexer@gmail.com> wrote:
 Hi Monica,

 Given the number of accidents and danger posed, I think a stop sign at our corner is needed.

 Thanks for doing this.

                                                           2
Michael


On Nov 16, 2018, at 2:02 PM, Monica Yeung Arima <myarima@gmail.com> wrote:


          Hi All,

          I live on 1052 Bryant Street, right at the corner of
          Bryant and Lincoln. The one with many roses around. I
          am writing this as a frustration of years of complaints
          to the city of Palo Alto. I need your help.

          I used PaloAlto311 (See attached email item #) often
          to report these issues. I physically went to public
          works department and I called into different
          departments multiple times. But it seems like it is not
          going any where. The issues are as follows:
               Want to install a street cleaning sign for street cleaning in
                Professorville. Before the RPP program was installed, our streets
                only got cleaned 3-5 times a year with manual labor nailed the "DO
                NOT PARK' street cleaning signs there. It is labor intensive to put
                the signs up on the trees and the streets were only cleaned a few
                times a year. The rest of the time, the streets were always parked
                with cars, so it can never be cleaned. As a results, the streets were
                always piled with leaves because the machine have no access to the
                curb. If there is big rain, some time the leaves would block the
                storm drain entrance. As a famous Historic District and an
                expensive area, one will think that the city would take better care
                of the environment. I was told when the street sign was up for the
                RPP program, "they" will install the street cleaning signs. But after
                the RPP program was up for 3 years and the street cleaning signs
                were still not up after a number of times of complaints. One
                comment that I got back was that "they" are short in budget. The
                last comments that I received was that the police department was
                                                    3
      short staff, so even if the street cleaning signs are up, there will
      be no one to reinforce the rules. This totally doesn't make sense to
      me. As of now, the 2 hr parking signs was there, meter man have to
      ticket whoever is in violation of the 2 hr parking zone. Why would it
      costs more money to regulate the street cleaning violations? I need
      your help on this issue. I want street cleaning signs attached on the
      existing RPP posts in Professorville.
     Want to install a round about (like the one on Addition and Bryant
      Street) to slow down traffic on Bryant Street. Bryant and Lincoln
      is a very busy intersection. It is also all the internet, telephone
      wiring, utilities main junction area. Street is always under
      construction. Residents use Bryant street as bike lane to go to and
      from downtown. Bryant street do not have a stop sign. Bikers or
      cars run very fast on Bryant Street after they stop at
      Embarcadero Road. Parents used Lincoln Avenue to send their
      children to and from schools, Paly and Addison. I work off at home,
      so I observed many accidents on this intersection both with bikers
      or cars over the last 25+ years. I, myself, have an accident there in
      front of my house a number of years ago. The bikers ran into my
      car in high speed and got bounced off the street. He refused to be
      sent to hospital, so even when police were there, no report was
      issued. Many accidents happened, even if police show up, no reports
      were issued since there was no injuries. So it is hard to collect
      statistic for you. The link that PaloAlto311 sent me does not speak
      correctly on how the traffic on this street is. According to the
      city's schedule, the improvement (mainly the repaving of the
      street) is supposed to be done by October 2018, but, yet the
      corner is still having yellow ribbons at the corner since a few
      months ago. The repaving is completed but the corner was left
      unfinished. See pictures. I request to have a round about to be
      installed here before too many people got hurt. It is a health and
      safety issue. Please consider this instead of giving me too many run
      around.

As I understand that there was plan to install a roundabout by the end
of Bryant Street off Palo Alto Avenue. I think the roundabout will be
better used at Bryant Street and Lincoln Avenue. As for the

                                    4
argument on some of my responses in PaloAlto311 that bike lane is
inappropriate for roundabout. He should have studied the street before
he made that comment because the Addison and Bryant Street
roundabout existed a number of years already and is working perfectly
fine.

Looking forward for your response.


<image1.jpeg><image2.jpeg>
Best regards,

Monica Yeung Arima
Yarkin Realty (LIC 01185969)
650 888-4116 (Cell)
650 215-9914 (Home Office eFax)
Website: http://www.myarima.com

‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Forwarded message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
From: Palo Alto <noreply@publicstuff.com>
Date: Wed, Nov 14, 2018 at 8:15 AM
Subject: Someone has commented on Traffic congestion or traffic safety concern #5093558
To: <myarima@gmail.com>




                   Palo Alto



                                      NEW COMMENT

                    Hi Monica Yeung,

                    PLN5854 posted a comment on Traffic congestion or traffic safety
                    concern Request #5093558, a request you commented on.


                                                5
COMMENT
Shahla Yazdy:
Hello. Bryant Street is considered a Bicycle Blvd and therefore no additional stop signs will
not be placed on Bryant. The sight lines are clear and there are signs that clearly indicate that
"Cross traffic does not stop". In regards to other improvements on Bryant Street - The City of
Palo Alto will not be moving forward with any traffic calming treatments on Bryant St at this
time. A full update on the Neighborhood Traffic Safety and Bicycle Boulevard Phase 1 Project
was provided to City Council in the July 30 meeting staff report, which can be found here:
https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/blobdload.aspx?t=58017.61&BlobID=66090
Nov 14, 2018, 8:15 AM PST by Shahla Yazdy (This is visible to Everyone)


https://iframe.publicstuff.com/#?client_id=406&request_id=5093558

Please do not reply directly to this email.

Thanks!

Palo Alto


                                 EMAIL PREFERENCES | UNSUBSCRIBE




                                          6
Carnahan, David

From:                    Tracy Mallory <tracylists1@gmail.com>
Sent:                    Monday, November 19, 2018 10:03 AM
To:                      Council, City
Subject:                 grade separation of rail crossings


As one of many residents commenting on the project, I’d like to ask if the project evaluation criteria ever included loss of
property value with the various options, and also ask again why the reversed hybrid option has been dismissed?

If an above gade‐level option for the train of any kind is selected the increase in noise, especially at night and the visual
blight (especially during the day;‐) will obviously have a dramatic effect on the value of properties on either side of the
tracks, with greater reductions closer to the rail line.

It should not be hard to get some “real” estimates, but the following is more likely to be low than high.

Conservatively:
  1 mile of significanlty impacted housing, call it 50 lot lengths along the route, but could be twice this
  5 lots deep on each side seriously affected ‐ lose 10% property value
  10 lots further on each sidely moderately affected ‐ lose 5% property value
  10 lots further mildly affected ‐ lose 2.5% property value

On east side average property value is ?? 2.5M
On west side average property value is ?? 2M

((250 * 2M) + (250 * 2.5M)) * 0.1 +
((500 * 2M) + (500 * 2.5M)) * 0.05 +
((500 * 2M) + (500 * 2.5M)) * 0.025

= $281,250

It’s pretty clear why a lot of residents are very upset about the direct cost to them of a cheap solution. It is not
acceptable to compare this to existing raised track solutions farther north. Once you get to Redwood city there are
relatively few houses along the route, but south Palo Alto is all single‐family housing.

I’m surprised that the “other” hybrid option of raising the roads an lowering the rail line has been dismissed. I would be
very distressed by having my house taken as a result of eminent domain needs, but losing ten houses, perhaps paying
the owners twice what they are worth, would be much, much cheaper than impacting thousands of homeowners for the
rest of their lives and dividing the south end of the city permanently with visual as well as a physical wall. We don’t need
massive structures of the magnitude of San Antonio Road. Although fairly wide, the roadway could have quite a low load
limit, requiring trucks to use San Antonio or Oregon as today. Sink the train 15 feet(not 30) which would put it 17 feet
below where it is today(it’s above grade now) and raise the road 10 feet and everyone except for a few well‐
compensated home‐owners will be much happier than with any of the current plans.

Sincerely,

Tracy Mallory
650‐279‐0037

PS: Here’s the math:

>>> expr \( \( \( 500 \* 2000000 \) + \( 500 \* 2500000 \) \) \* 5 \/ 100 \) \+ \( \( \( 500 \* 2000000 \) + \( 500 \* 2500000 \) \) \* 25 \/ 1000
\) \+ \( \( \( 250 \* 2000000 \) + \( 250 \* 2500000 \) \) \* 10 \/ 100 \)
281250000
Carnahan, David

From:                Kim Atkinson <atkinsonkim@pacbell.net>
Sent:                Friday, November 16, 2018 3:40 PM
To:                  Council, City
Cc:                  Kniss, Liz (internal)
Subject:             Hearing minutes from March 27, 2017


To the Palo Alto City Council,

  I am sorry to take your time again.
  Thank you for allowing me one more correspondence here on the issue of what is taking place
at the 670 Los Trancos development facing Arastradero Open Space Preserve.

 Today another Palo Alto resident who spoke out at the March 2017 hearing against the development just sent
me a copy of the minutes to that meeting, accessed in this link:

https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/58436

  The concern about what is taking place today on this site is twofold:

       1. Is the present construction at the base of the hill, and highly visible to the park,
       in line with what you approved on March 27, 2017 ? Nowhere can I find in the minutes an
       indication that construction would be performed at the base of the hill.

       2. The construction work is not at all screened from park view, as was promised at the hearing.
       The minutes substantiate a lot of conversation about screening the project from public view,
       about planting slow-growing oaks (or quicker oaks), and trying to visually minimize the project
       overall, as seen from Arastradero Open Space preserve.

       One photo is repeated for you below (sent to you earlier this week), to highlight the discrepancy
       between what is taking place up there today, vs what was agreed to by the owner, and voted for,
       at the 2017 hearing.

       A few specific comments for you here, from your minutes of March 27, 2017:

       Page 35: Graham Owen, Associate Planner said the guest house would not be visible from
                  Arastradero Preserve. If this is not the guest house, what please is being built
                  at the bottom of the slope today ? Thank you for clarifying this, and its legality.

       page 36: Mr. Owen also pointed out that the main home would be built directly under the
                 top of the knoll. We see this in the artist’s rendition of the house, screened by
                 oak trees, shown in the SJ Mercury link sent to you earlier this week.

                   So, why is the entire hillside covered with plastic ?

       Page 39: Paul McClean, architect: “The first Open Space Development Criteria is development
                should not be visually intrusive. We look at that as gospel.”

                   Has this gospel not already been broken, just over a year into construction ?
                   Please kindly refer to the photo below.

       Page 39: Guy Gecht (owner): stated that his project is visible from only 2% of the park’s trails.

                       My comment: Please know that when hiking up Meadowlark Trail, or up any incline, a hiker looks
                      upwards and ahead to the sky and the peak….. that is the view, the goal, and the endpoint of any
                      uphill hike. Whatever the footage on the path, the top view is worth a lot more than “2%."

                                                             1
        Page 46: As public speaker Winter Dellenbach succinctly put it: “The homeowner walked into
                    this with eyes open….it’s called open space zoning for a reason. It’s about space…”

        Page 41: Public speakers Claire Landowski and John Krueger: their entire presentation merits
                  re-reading. It is an eloquent appeal to preserve precious open space that offers a
                  sanctuary and respite from urban life, and provides healthy outdoor exercise.

                   The point of revisiting their words is not to prolong an argument that was
                   closed on March 27, but to question what is going on up there today,
                   and is this blight on our park being monitored by the city ?

         Page 42: Landowski & Krueger: “There is virtually no support for this development
                  outside a handful of immediate neighbors. What would it say about the City
                  of Palo Alto if the Council refuses to uphold its own Municipal Codes against
                  the will of its constituents ?......” “…….this is dangerous precedent you are
                  setting…..”

For all the words of praise for the attractive house design, seen in the minutes on various pages,
by the architects and a few immediate neighbors, where is the ‘exquisite sensitivity’ today, for hikers
and other people using the park now ?

Mr. Gecht is documented to have complained to Council Member Tanaka, apparently on March 26 2017, that the photos
depicting his story poles were taken using telephoto. But the visual impact to the live onsite viewer is actually much
worse. Telephoto views simply render a flat photo, seen offsite, a closer impression to the real view seen by hikers, and
are not meant to mislead. The visual impact on the park today is real, and it is ugly.

During the hearing, Council Member Kou rightly tried to press the issue of screening plantings, and of plantings that could
grow fast enough, or be planted soon enough, to partially hide the project during construction. She was also concerned
about deciduous trees not hiding the buildings in winter.

Today during construction absolutely nothing screens the plastic hillside, the machinery or fencing surrounding this
project.

       Page 58: Council Member DuBois: “I have some concerns about the mass. I really appreciate
                 your commitments to screen it as fast as possible. Is the pre-planting now part of
                 the condition of approval ?”

       Page 59     Mr. Gecht: “We agree.”

                    Vice Mayor Kniss: “That’s fine, good idea.”

       Page 64: INCORPORATED INTO THE MOTION WITH THE CONSENT OF THE MAKER AND
                 SECONDER……. “in addition to the required tree planting, the Applicant shall plant
                 prior to the commencement of construction, fast growing vegetation and trees to
                 further obscure the home during construction……”

So a final question to the City Council today please is, who is overseeing this project to be in compliance
with all that was promised on March 27, 2017, and all that was agreed to, both in terms of the location of construction
itself, and in terms of the visual blight taking place that enjoys no form of screening whatsoever ?

Thank you for your patience to read through this. Although the project was approved long ago, you have a lot of unhappy
people trying to enjoy that park today, who are not seeing what they thought was promised, even though they were
defeated in the main goal of blocking the project.

And a last suggestion / plea: if page 35 of the 3/27/17 minutes is understood correctly, that only 5 of
     the 10 Hewlett Tract subdivision sites have been developed, cannot the city of Palo Alto please save
     the other 5 (or 4) that are remaining, and put these on the ballot to buy and preserve as open space ?

     I am not sure if preserving the remaining plots would help or positively affect our public parks (am not
     sure of their location or their visibility from the two parks up there), but it is very certain that 670 Los Trancos
                                                               2
     should never have been approved for development, especially since the only viable building space was
     on the hill directly in view of a beloved and popular open space park. That plot wasn't viable for construction
     to begin with, especially for an estate home of almost 10,000 square feet.

     The wildlife corridor has been impacted, too. Deer are still up there, but fewer than a few years
     ago are walking through the park now.
     Arastradero Open Space Preserve has been a wildlife jewel, now somewhat diminished.


Sincerely,
Kim Atkinson and fellow hikers who have seen this correspondence

Construction is near a hiking trail summit panoramic view point of the whole Bay Area, accessed by an
offshoot of the Meadowlark Trail, with a picnic table.  This is what we see near there now, instead
of an open vista towards the Santa Cruz mountains:




                                                             3
Carnahan, David

From:             J. Shi <jian1@sbcglobal.net>
Sent:             Thursday, November 15, 2018 5:57 PM
To:               Council, City; Clerk, City; Architectural Review Board; Price@padailypost.com; editor@paweekly.com;
                  Victoria.Nguyen@nbcuni.com; jawatts@kpix.cbs.com
Cc:               Jian Shi
Subject:          I am against to set Verizon Cell Tower at our Palo Alto Neighborhoods.



Hi,

We are very angry to set Verizon Cell Tower at our Palo Alto Neighborhoods. IT is very
bad for our children and other people health.

Please:
1) To reverse its approval of the Verizon/Vinculums Cluster 1 cell towers and
2) To halt the cell tower application review process until there has been a full
investigation of Jonathan Reichental’s actions.

We, the residents of Palo Alto, were not given a level playing field on which to make our
case about neighborhood cell towers. City Council needs to level the playing field and
rehear the case.

Thanks and Regards.
Jian J. Shi
4010 Villa Vista, Palo Alto, CA 94306
650251-9570




                                                         1
Carnahan, David

From:             Ronald Wilensky <ronwilensky@yahoo.com>
Sent:             Thursday, November 15, 2018 9:49 PM
To:               Council, City
Cc:               Clerk, City
Subject:          Jonathan Reichental's Actions



In light of the recent article in the San Jose Mercury about Jonathan Reichental, I urge you to reverse
the City Council's approval of the Verizon/Vinculums Cluster 1 cell towers and 2) to halt the cell tower
application review process until there has been a full investigation of Mr. Reichental’s actions.

We, the residents of Palo Alto, were not given a level playing field on which to make our case about
neighborhood cell towers. City Council needs to level the playing field and rehear the case.




                                                    1
Carnahan, David

From:                   Mary Thomas <mj_thomas_2000@yahoo.com>
Sent:                   Thursday, November 15, 2018 8:45 PM
To:                     Council, City; Clerk, City; Architectural Review Board
Subject:                Let's revisit the cell phone towers decision by City Council


The uncovering of the "gifts" from the telecommunication industry to Jonathan Reichental puts the decision process of the
city council regarding the installation of cell phone towers in our residential neighborhoods in an unfavorable light.

Let's revisit this issue!!

Mary Thomas




                                                                 1
Carnahan, David

From:                  James Taylor <jamet1234@gmail.com>
Sent:                  Sunday, November 18, 2018 2:35 PM
To:                    Council, City
Subject:               Rail options in Palo Alto


Hi

A quick bit of feedback from someone currently living in Greenmeadow who grew up in England living near electrified
trains (at grade in one case, elevated on an embankment in the other case ‐ both within 2 house widths, one MUCH
more frequent than caltrain dreams of).

It seems to me that the only realistic option is to run the trains at grade level and close Charleston, Churchill and
Meadow. The track could be raised a little to allow a pedestrian / cycle path such as the one at N. California to pass
under (allowing the majority of Gunn, Paly and Fletcher students to make the crossing). San
Antonio/Oregon/University/Embarcadero are surely enough crossings for what is, at the end of the day, a small city.
Once they were closed traffic would sort itself out and the city could then invest in improving the new hotspots created.

All the other options are either prohibitively expensive (tunnels), thoroughly unpleasant for those living nearby (viaduct)
or just utterly impractical given the water table (trench and probably tunnel too).

As a city we need and should want a regular electric rail service. This means the at‐grade crossings have to go. Closing
them is the only option as no matter what people say, they won't be will be willing to pay the taxes necessary for
anything else.

I appreciate you listening to the local population but you should be realistic about what can be done. And a tunnel is too
expense, the trench seems unlikely and the viaduct will never make it past the voters.

Thanks for listening
James




                                                             1
Carnahan, David

From:                Phil Coulson <philcoulson_3@yahoo.com>
Sent:                Friday, November 16, 2018 10:55 AM
To:                  Council, City
Cc:                  Clerk, City; Architectural Review Board
Subject:             Regarding Verizon’s Cell Tower applications


Hi ‐

I believe the application process was done unfairly due to Jonathan Reichental influenced recommendations as our
neighborhood opinions and voice were not ‘heard’.

Jonathan Reichental, Palo Alto’s Chief Technical Officer and Chief Information Officer for Palo Alto has likely been
influenced by the telecom industry to advance the city’s response favorably with regard to installing cell towers in our
residential neighborhoods. I point you to this article that points out his potential unethical and unlawful behavior here:

https://www.mercurynews.com/2018/11/15/complaint‐accuses‐palo‐altos‐top‐tech‐official‐of‐taking‐28‐junkets‐paid‐
by‐firms‐linked‐to‐city‐business/

As a resident of Palo Alto and seeing this as an issue I am requesting the City Council reverse its approval of the
Verizon/Vinculums Cluster 1 cell towers. Additionally I am asking the Council to halt the cell tower application review
process until there has been a full investigation of Jonathan Reichental’s actions. Please rehear the case for application!

Thank you for your consideration on this important matter, ‐Phil Coulson




                                                             1
Carnahan, David

From:                 Amrutha Kattamuri <vkattamuri@yahoo.com>
Sent:                 Monday, November 19, 2018 12:12 PM
To:                   Council, City
Cc:                   Council, City; Clerk, City; Architectural Review Board
Subject:              Request to reverse City Council's approval of the Verizon/Vinculums Cluster 1 cell towers


Dear All,

I am writing this email to request the Palo Alto City Council to


1) Reverse the approval of the Verizon/Vinculums Cluster 1 cell towers and
2) Halt the cell tower application review process until there has been a full investigation of Jonathan Reichental’s actions.


Thanks,
Amrutha




                                                               1
Carnahan, David

From:                Francesca <dfkautz@pacbell.net>
Sent:                Friday, November 16, 2018 4:44 PM
To:                  Council, City
Cc:                  Architectural Review Board; Clerk, City
Subject:             Reverse the approval of the Verizon Cluster 1 cell towers


Dear City Council,

In light of the recent allegations against Jonathan Reichental, please reverse your approval of the Vinculums/Verizon
Cluster 1 cell towers and halt the review process of any further cell towers in Palo Alto. If Mr. Reichental is in cahoots
with the telecommunications industry, the citizens of Palo Alto did not get a fair shake when fighting and appealing the
Verizon cell node issue. This is a serious matter and our city of Palo Alto employees must behave ethically.

Thank you,

Francesca Kautz




                                                             1
Carnahan, David

From:                 tahira14@gmail.com
Sent:                 Wednesday, November 14, 2018 5:03 PM
To:                   Council, City
Cc:                   cnsbuchanan@yahoo.com
Subject:              STOP signs


To: City Council of Palo Alto

This is in regard to the Bryant Street and Everett Street crossing. Due to not having 4 way STOP signs, this crossing has
become very hazardous. There have been numerous near disasters and accidents as well. Today it happened again
where there was a near collision. Please install STOP signs on Bryant Street at the Everett Street crossing. It is the most
inexpensive way to avoid accidents. I have written emails, have expressed my concern at a City Council meeting on
traffic recently, but have had no response. Kindly examine other streets in this downtown area where there are no 4
way STOP signs and where they must be installed. What is the City Council waiting for? Someone to get killed? Our City
Council elected members must take serious note of this and take action or else they do not deserve our vote.

Hoping for a response soon. Thank you.

Sincerely
Tahira Piracha.


Sent from my iPhone




                                                             1
Carnahan, David

From:                                                                                                                                                               Susan Monk <susankmonk@gmail.com>
Sent:                                                                                                                                                               Wednesday, November 14, 2018 1:10 PM
To:                                                                                                                                                                 Council, City; Planning Commission
Cc:                                                                                                                                                                 Keene, James; Shikada, Ed; Lait, Jonathan; Stump, Molly; Minor, Beth
Subject:                                                                                                                                                            Thank you


Dear Council Members and fellow Commissioners,


I am writing to inform you that I have begun the process of relocating my household to Southern California, and by the
end of this month that process will be complete. As a result, I will not be able to attend the December meeting and I
want to make sure each of you know just how much I have enjoyed participating on the Planning Commission.


I want to especially thank you all for giving me the opportunity to offer the perspective of renters on this important and
influential commission. I have been a renter throughout my residency in Palo Alto, and like many of the members of our
community who rent, our perspective and voice should be represented. I encourage Council to consider the importance
of a diversity of voices in filling my seat on the PTC, and to strongly consider candidates who rent as well as own.


I am proud of our work updating our zoning codes to address the housing crisis, while keeping Palo Alto one of the most
desirable places to live in the country. The Comprehensive Plan, the Affordable Housing Overlay, the ADU Ordinance,
and many other projects will hopefully improve the livability and affordability of Palo Alto.

In the two years I have served on the Commission, I have been continually impressed with the compassion and
dedication you each bring to the work of serving the community. I am very proud to have served alongside my fellow
Commissioners and wish all of you the very best.

Sincerely,
Sue




Susan Monk, JD
  619.804.4141

  susankmonk@gmail.com


Let's Connect!
    The link ed image cannot be display ed. The file may hav e been mov ed, renamed, or deleted. Verify that the link points to the correct file and location.




                                                                                                                                                                 http://linkedin.com/in/susankmonk

                                                                                                                                                                                                           1
Carnahan, David

From:                 Amie Neff <amie.neff@gmail.com>
Sent:                 Wednesday, November 14, 2018 1:15 PM
To:                   Keene, James; Shikada, Ed; De Geus, Robert; Council, City; cory.wolbach@gmail.com; Adrian Fine;
                      Filseth, Eric (external); kou.pacc@gmail.com; tomforcouncil@gmail.com; greg@gregtanaka.org;
                      Scharff, Greg; electcormack@gmail.com
Subject:              Train Committee Meeting Feedback Nov 14


Hi All,

I'm sorry we were forced to an early conclusion, I was looking forward to hearing more about the passenger tunnel,
freight above option. I have 2 thoughts to share:

1) Given the constraints currently making the City Wide Tunnel and even shallow trench options difficult (drainage,
subsurface right‐of‐way claims, maintenance, costs, venting, train recovery, etc.), we may be at a better advantage if we
can eliminate the freight and put Cal‐Train below grade. I am in favor of investigating this option. While it doesn't
eliminate the tracks running through the city, it does give us an opportunity to decouple the issue of freight from our
city‐wide response to increased Cal‐Train frequency and ridership, and this is smart.
I would like to Echo Nadia Niak's request that AECom remain impartial in presenting each option with an equal amount
of enthusiasm and skepticism. It is not in our best interest to follow the desires of our consultant. That I am now
painfully aware of the 1st choice of our consultants makes this process feel like lip‐service.

2) Eddie briefly mentioned her team was looking at relocating the viaduct to the shoefly location, but declined to go
into further detail. It seemed as if Lydia Kou, another speaking member of the community (whose name I forget) and
myself all had the impression that pushing the viaduct into the shoefly, might mean that Alma street, (when the viaduct
was completed) would be bifurcated by the viaduct overhead. This isn't a bad idea. If we could push the viaduct over far
enough into our current existing traffic lane, then we would stack transportation vertically, instead of taking up valuable
land required to put the train adjacent to Alma.
The viaduct doesn't demand the same width as an at‐grade train, and the space below is freed up for alternate uses.
Putting a park beneath isn't realistic, but putting cars beneath? Why not? Shifting the viaduct away from people's back
yards is a nice idea. Plus, you'll be able to leave the train in place during the bulk of construction. Of course, the train will
have to shift back to the original track, and Alma will have to be adjusted to accommodate that shift, but if you did it
away from the existing crossings, near, for example, Bruce Bauer lumber on the South end, and near El Dorado on the
North end, you could avoid impacting any roadway crossings. The bike lane could then roughly link San Antonio Station
with the new development at Fry's. Here are a couple of imperfect images to sample:




                                                                1
I'd love to see details on AECom's suggestion, and investigate how far over we could push the train viaduct into Alma.

Thanks All.
‐‐
Amie Neff
M.Arch, LEED® AP
‐‐
cell: 650/ 396/ 9146
amie.neff@gmail.com
www.capabledesign.com




                                                            2
Carnahan, David

From:             Nahid Waleh <nwaleh@gmail.com>
Sent:             Friday, November 16, 2018 7:30 AM
To:               Council, City; Clerk, City; Architectural Review Board



Dear City Council:
Please reverse the approval of the Verizon/Vinculums Cluster 1 cell towers and halt the cell tower
application review process until there has been a full investigation of Jonathan Reichental’s
actions. We, the residents of Palo Alto, were not given a level playing field on which to make our
case about neighborhood cell towers. City Council needs to level the playing field and rehear the
case.
Respectfully,
Nahid Waleh
2344 Emerson Street




                                                           1
                                                                                     t-Vtl         u~~._, G~




                       City-School Liaison Committee 2018 Schedule
                                                                           ~, ~~NG
                                      November 2018                        1[ ] Placed Before Meeting
                                                                           -·   .r   A   .......   •              - -
                                                                                - ~ -                  '   i:IL   •v•         g
         Date                                           Item
February 15, 2018       •   Library collaboration with PAUSD to issue students Library Cards
                        •   2018 Council Priorities
                        •   Agenda planning for 2018
March 15, 2018          •   Review of Recent City Council/PAUSD Board Meetings
                        •   2018 Summer Programs (City)
                        •   Planned bike and pedestrian improvements to Churchill Ave - City
                            Chief Transportation Official
                        •   Discussion of Agenda Topics for April and May
April 19, 2018          •   Review of Recent City Council and PAUSD Board Meetings
                        •   Update Coordinated North Ventura Area Plan
                        •   City and District Comments and Announcements
                        •   Future Meetings and Agenda's
May 17, 2018            •   Review of Recent City Council and PAUSD Board Meetings
                        •   City and District Comments and Announcements
                        •   Safe Routes to School - Rosie Mesterhazy, MPH, LCI #5255. Safe
                            Routes to School Coordinator, City of Palo Alto, Transportation
                            Division Department of Planning+ Community Environment
                        •   Cubberley Master Plan Update
                        •   Future Meetings and Agenda's
June 21, 2018           •    Review of Recent City Council and PAUSD Board Meetings
                        •    City and District Comments and Announcements
                        •    Summary of Contracts and Support Services provided between City
                             and PAUSD
                        •    Future Meetings and Agendas
July 19, 2018        Cancelled due to Council and PAUSD Holiday Break
August 16, 2018         •   Review of Recent City Council and PAUSD Board Meetings
                        •   City and District Comments and Announcements
                        •   Cubberley Master Plan - Introduce Bobbie Hill from Concordia
                            (Consultant)
                        •   Stanford General Use Permit (GUP)
                        •   Future Meetings and Agenda's
September 20, 2018      •   Review Recent City Council I PAUSD Board Meetings:
                        •   City and District Staff Comments and Announcements
                        •   Previously Item 4 - CANCELED and MOVED TO 10/18 - Introduction of
                            PAUSD Superintendent with the City Manager
                        •   Stanford General Use Plan Update
                        •   Coordination Between City and PAUSD on Capital Improvements
                        •   Cubberley Master Plan Update
                        •   Future Meetings and Agendas
October 18, 2018        •   Review of Recent City Council and PAUSD Board Meetings
                        •   City and District Comments and Announcements
                        •   Introduction of PAUSD Superintendent with the City Manager
                        •   Cubberley Master Plan (specific topics to be added)
                        •   Future Meetings and Agenda's


                                                                                                                        1 -
        ~·.,.
                .... _:-.:~· ~'
                                  City-School Liaison Committee 2018 Schedule
                                                 November 2018

November 15, 2018                  •   Review Recent City Council I PAUSD Board Meetings
                                            0  CITY: Public Safety Building, Referral to Identify $4 Million in
                                               General Fund Savings, Study Session with Senator Hill, Study
                                               Session on Traffic
                                            0  PAUSD: Update on California Voters Rights Act, 2019 Calendar
                                   •   City and District Staff Comments and Announcements
                                   •   Stanford University General Use Permit (GUP)
                                   •   Cubberley Master Plan Update
                                   •   School Resource Officer Agreement Update
                                   •   Future Meetings and Agendas
December - Date TBD                •   Review of Recent City Council and PAUSD Board Meetings
                                   •   City and District Comments and Announcements
                                   •   Cubberley Master Plan (specific topics to be added)
                                   •   Future Meetings and Agenda's




To be Scheduled and/or Potential Items for discussion with tent. dates:
                                                                                -
    •   Cubberley Master Plan (Month/Standing                 •   Traffic School Team (May 2019 Josh Mello)
        item Kristen O'Kane)                                  •   Teacher housing - thoughts and potential
    •   Introduction of PAUSD Superintendent                      collaboration (TBD)
        w/City Manager (Sept Jim Keene and Don                •   Stanford - PAUSD/City- Coordination and
        Austin)                                                   shared interests (TBD)
    •   Consideration of a joint Town Hall with               •   Ways for City and District to work together
        BOE and City Council (TBD - purpose and                   more effectively to accomplish shared
        structure needs to be defined Rob de                      goals (Aug-Nov Kristen O'Kane)
        Geus)                                                         o Shared use of facilities
    •   Invest in May Fete Parade (Dec Kristen                        o Cost of services
        O'Kane)                                               •   Middle School Athletics (Nov. Kristen
    •   Reaffirming Palo Alto's Commitment to a                   O'Kane)
        Diverse, Supportive, Inclusive and                    •   Emergency Preparedness (Dec. Ken
        Protective Community and prepared                         Dauber)
        recommendations to support and extend                 •   Teacher & staff housing (TBD)
        the Council resolution (Oct Minka van der             •   Ventura Coordinated Area Plan (Nov
        Zwaag)                                                    Jonathan Lait)
    •   Stanford General Use Plan (GUP) - (Aug
        and Sept Jonathan La it)
    •   City Internships for PAUSD students that
        align with City's existing job shadow day
        (TBD Kristen O'Kane)
    •   State Mandates that impact PAUSD and
        City (As relevant mandates are identified)
    •   Grade Separation (Oct Rob de Geus)



                                                                                                              2 '
RETURN ADDRESS:




                                                        . ·FM·1 l..

I support Castilleja's proposal to                                                                      n'~
increase enrollment and modernize its
                                                                                              co        ---!-<
                                                                                                            --.
                                                                                              :z        -<
campus because ...                                                                            c::>      n o
                                                                                              <         r ..,,
 ~s~h&.,,                                                                                     N
                                                                                              C>        ~~
                                                                                                        :x r
~ ~ ~ ~·/lS                   nf)vi ..                                                        :r:a
                                                                                              ::x
                                                                                                        u; o
                                                                                                        o :X::-
                                                                                                        ..,, !:j
 p Cit .n""~ c0-               .                               Office of the Clerk w
                                                                                                        ..,, 0
                                                                                                        ~(-,

  op-AWl 1 ~ ~ 5                                              Please distribute to all
                                                              250 Hamilton Avenue, 7th Floor
                                                                                            cfv"Council~mbers
c}"1         ~ it'(l,i,,ltJ1                                  Palo Alto, CA, 94301




                       1., .11" 11 h•• 111 11.11 .. 1. l•'I· lll,11 11.1 11•• 111 111 .111• 1111 11.1
                            Q)
                                  n£?
                                  --;
                            :z:   ~-<
                            ~     ,...,,
                                  nO

                            ~     ~~
     .                            :::c;r-
 Off 1ce of the Clerk :c-         uio
 Please distribute to all   Q! Co~~embers
• 250 Hamilton Avenue, 7~or
  Palo Alto, CA, 943~ n 0
                                  ,,,l>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        •
        Independent Campuses                                                                                                                                         Shared Village                                                                                                                 Buildin                                              1n




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Co




   Characteristics: Mostly independent campuses with their own court-                                                                    Characteristics: Shared courtyard areas between community center and                                                             Characteristics: Single structure surrounded by green space; single point of
   yards; linear park connects Middlefield Road to the fields; two points of entry                                                       school uses; single point of entry/exit with two drop-off loops; all long-term                                                   entry with one drop-off area; all long-term parking in a central parking garage with
   and drop-off area along Middlefield, parking under the fields; lowest build-                                                          parking in a parking garage; mostly 3 story buildings for compact footprint                                                      green roof, around which buildings wrap and connect; most compact footprint,
   ings (mostly 2 story) and largest building footprint; buildings near the street                                                       away from the street edge, for more green space along Middlefield; buildings                                                     greatest green space; 4 story building with cascading tiers of balconies; light wells
   edge.                                                                                                                                 oriented on E/W axis to maximize energy efficiency and daylighting.                                                              and/or atriums employed to provide daylighting to inner areas.


QRRIVAL, PARKING, & SAFETY                                                                              0®©0®                            ('ARRIVAL, PARKING, & SAFETY                                                                    0®©0®                            ('ARRIVAL, PARKING, & SAFETY                                                                  0®©0®
~NDSCAPE                     & GREEN SPACE ORGANIZATION
 ............. ............................................................................ ...... ..   0®©0®                            ~NDSCAPE                     & GREEN SPACE ORGANIZATION
                                                                                                                                          .................................. .........................................................   0®©0®                            ~DSCAPE                       & GREEN SPACE ORGANIZATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ..................................... ......... ......................... ········ ······-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ~···           0®©0®
GROGRAM DISTRIBUTION
                                                                                                        0®©0®                            GROGRAM DISTRIBUTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0®©0®                            GROGRAM DISTRIBUTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0®©0®
GALANCE OF BUILDINGS AND GREEN SPACE
                                                                                                        0®©0®                            GALANCE OF BUILDINGS AND GREEN SPACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0®©©®                            GALANCE OF BUILDINGS AND GREEN SPACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0®©0®
QEING A GOOD NEIGHBOR
                                                                                                        0®©0®                            GaNG A GOOD NEIGHBOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0®©0®                            GEING A GOOD NEIGHBOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0®©0©
GEDESTRIAN CIRCULATION THROUGH SITE
                                                                                                        0®©0®                            GrnESTRIAN CIRCULATION THROUGH SITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0®©0®                            GEDESTRIAN CIRCULATION THROUGH SITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0®©0®
   COMMENTS                                                                                             r;;                       r;(J      COMMENTS                                                                                     r;;r                       G(J      COMMENTS                                                                                                             QJ
                                                                                                        fA OVERALL RANK                                                                                                                  fA OVERALL RANK                                                                                                                fA OVERALL RANK
                                                                                                        \S (among the three concepts)                                                                                                    \,& (among the three concepts)                                                                                                 \S (among the three concepts)
