            DOCUMENTS IN THIS PACKET INCLUDE:


                LETTERS FROM CITIZENS TO THE
                   MAYOR OR CITY COUNCIL


    RESPONSES FROM STAFF TO LETTERS FROM CITIZENS


        ITEMS FROM MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS


      ITEMS FROM OTHER COMMITTEES AND AGENCIES


ITEMS FROM CITY, COUNTY, STATE, AND REGIONAL AGENCIES




       Prepared for:           1/22/2018
       Document dates: 1/3/2018 – 1/10/2018

                                Set 1
 Note: Documents for every category may not have been received for packet
                      reproduction in a given week.




                                                                      701-32
                                                                                 COUNCIL MEETING
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/8/2018 8:40 AM
                                                                                 ✔
                                                                                         01/08/2018
                                                                                     Received Before Meeting
                                                                                                               2
Carnahan, David

From:                            Anne Gregory <xagregoryx@yahoo.com>
Sent:                            Sunday, January 07, 2018 1:13 PM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         election of mayor 1/8/2018


Dear Palo Alto City Council:


I do not want a Palo Alto Mayor who is under investigation for campaign finance violations. I am also unhappy that
Council Member Tanaka has not resigned in disgrace over his campaign finance violations. Electing Liz Kniss Mayor of
Palo Alto would send a terrible message. Please don't do this.

Sincerely yours,

Anne Gregory, Palo Alto Voter




                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/8/2018 4:00 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Michael Alcheck <malcheck@gmail.com>
Sent:                          Monday, January 08, 2018 3:19 PM
To:                            Council, City
Subject:                       Re: City Council Reorganization



Dear members of the Palo Alto City Council,

In anticipation of tonight's meeting, and because I am unable to attend in person, I write to convey
my profound respect for and confidence in Vice Mayor Liz Kniss and support her appointment as
Mayor. I have served on the Planning Commission for nearly 6 years and can say without hesitation
that Vice Mayor Kniss has repeatedly demonstrated an exceptional grasp of the issues that have
come before our Commission. She has been a great partner to the advocates of affordable housing
and remains committed to correcting our jobs-housing imbalance. She is both receptive to our
communities concerns while being thoughtful and creative in developing strategies to address the
numerous challenges confronting Palo Alto. Our city would be well served if she were appointed
Mayor and I hope you feel the same way.

Best,
Michael Alcheck




                                                     1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/8/2018 8:30 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                          California High-Speed Rail <info@hsr.ca.gov>
Sent:                          Friday, January 05, 2018 4:35 PM
To:                            Council, City
Subject:                       California High-Speed Rail Board of Directors Meeting Agenda for January 16, 2018



                                      To view this email as a web page, go here.




           BOARD AGENDA

                                  Monthly Meeting Agenda
                                              January 16, 2018
                                                 10:00 A.M.

                                         MAY 1, 2017 @ 9:00 AM
                                        Meeting Location
                          Sacramento County Board of Supervisors Chambers
                                           700 H Street
                                      Sacramento, CA 95814

           PUBLIC COMMENT
           For this meeting, an opportunity for public comment on all agenda and non-
           agenda items will be provided at the outset of the public session of the
           meeting. Those persons who wish to comment on agenda and non-agenda

                                                          1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/8/2018 8:30 AM

          items, are required to submit their requests to Board Secretary before the
          start of the meeting by filling in the green cards. Typically public comment will
          be limited to two minutes per person, however the Chair may decide to shorten or
          lengthen the public comment periods, at his or her discretion. Agenda Items may
          be taken out of order.


          1. Consider Approving the Board Meeting Minutes from the November 15,
          2017 Board Meeting

                       Responsible Party:                           Status: A
                              --                                  Duration: 5 min.



          2. Consider Approving Additional Funds for the Construction Package 1
          Design-Build Contract

                      Responsible Party:                            Status: A
                         J. Cazares                              Duration: 25 min.



          3. Presentation on the 2017 Sustainability Report

                      Responsible Party:                             Status: I
                         M. Cederoth                             Duration: 15 min.



          4. Closed Session Pertaining to Employment of an Executive Director (CEO)
          The Authority Board will meet in closed session pursuant to Government Code
          section 11126(a) to discuss the employment of a new Executive Director (CEO)


                           Responsible Party:
                                                                         Status: --
                             Chair Richard
                                                                        Duration: --
                            Board Members




          5. Closed Session Pertaining to Litigation

          The Authority will meet in closed session pursuant to Government Code section
          11126(e)(1)&(2)(A) to confer with counsel with regard to the following litigation:



                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/8/2018 8:30 AM


                     John Tos; Quentin Kopp; Town of Atherton; County of Kings; Patricia
                      Louise Hogan-Giorni; Anthony Wynne, Community Coalition on High-
                      Speed Rail, TRANSDEF; California Rail Foundation v. California High-
                      Speed Rail Authority (Sacramento Superior Court Case No. 34-2016-
                      00204740)
                     County of Kings v. California High-Speed Rail Authority; (Sacramento
                      Superior Court Case No. 34-2014-80001861)
                     First Free Baptist Church of Bakersfield v. California High-Speed Rail
                      Authority; (Sacramento Superior Court Case No. 34-2014-80001864)
                     City of Shafter v. California High-Speed Rail Authority; (Sacramento
                      Superior Court Case No. 34-2014-80001908)


          The Authority will meet in closed session pursuant to Government Code section
          11126(e)(1)&(2)(B)(i);11126(a)(1).

                                     Responsible Party:                                                  Status: --
                                         J. Andrew                                                      Duration: --


          Reasonable Accommodation for Any Individual


          Requests for reasonable accommodations, such as interpreters or assistive listening devices, require at least one week advance
          notice prior to the meeting/event. Please submit request to the High-Speed Rail Authority’s Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO)
          Branch at (916) 324-1541 or via email at boardmembers@hsr.ca.gov.


          Adaptaciones razonables


          Las solicitudes de adaptaciones razonables, como intérpretes o dispositivos de audición asistida, requieren al menos una semana
          de aviso previo antes de la reunión/evento. Haga su solicitud en la Oficina de Igualdad de Oportunidades en el Empleo (Equal
          Employment Opportunity, EEO) de la Autoridad del Sistema Ferroviario de Alta Velocidad al (916) 324-1541 o por correo
          electrónico a boardmembers@hsr.ca.gov.


          合理便利設施


          如需同聲傳譯或助聽設備等合理的便利設施，需至少在會議/活動前一周給出提前通知。請提交申請至高速鐵路管理局的公平就業機
          會（EEO）辦公室，電話為(916) 324-1541，或請發送電郵至 boardmembers@hsr.ca.gov.

          Mga Makatuwirang Kaluwagan

          Ang mga kahilingan para sa makatuwirang kaluwagan, tulad ng tagapagsalin ng wika o kagamitang pantulong sa pagdining, ay
          nangangailangan ng isang linggung paunang abiso bago ang pagpupulong/kaganapan. Mangyaring magsumite ng kahilingan sa
          Sangay ng Pantay na Pagkakataon sa Trabaho (Equal Employment Opportunity, EEO) ng Awtoridad ng Mabilis na Tren (High-
          Speed Rail Authority) sa (916) 324-1541 o sa pamamagitan ng email sa boardmembers@hsr.ca.gov.


          합리적인 편의서비스


          통역사 또는 청취 지원 장치 등의 합리적인 편의서비스에 대한 요청은 미팅/행사 적어도 1주일 전에 요청해야 합니다. 요청서를
          고속철도청 평등한 고용기회(EEO) 지점, (916) 324-1541 또는 이메일boardmembers@hsr.ca.gov.로 보내 주십시오.


          การอํานวยความสะดวกทีเ่ หมาะสม




                                                                         3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/8/2018 8:30 AM

          หากต้องการขอรับการอํานวยความสะดวกทีเ่ หมาะสม เช่น ล่ามหรืออุปกรณ์ชว่ ยฟงั ต้องมีการแจ้งให้ทราบล่วงหน้าก่อนการประชุม/การจัดงานอย่างน้อยหนึ่งสัปดาห์
          โปรดส่งคําขอไปยังสํานักงานสาขาโอกาสการจ้างงานทีเ่ ท่าทียมกัน (EEO) ของการรถไฟความเร็วสูงทีห่ มายเลข (916) 324-1541 หรือผ่านทางอีเมลที่
          boardmembers@hsr.ca.gov.


          SEE MORE AT WWW.HSR.CA.GOV
          California High-Speed Rail Authority
          770 L Street, Suite 620
          Sacramento, CA 956814
          info@hsr.ca.gov
          (916) 324-1541




                                         This email was sent by: California High-Speed Rail Authority
                                              770 L Street Suite 620, Sacramento, CA, 95814 US

                                                                           Privacy Policy

                                                                             Unsubscribe




                                                                                       4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/9/2018 3:47 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Jeremy Robinson <jeremy.robinson67@icloud.com>
Sent:                             Tuesday, January 09, 2018 3:41 PM
To:                               Council, City
Subject:                          Ruling on Sand Hill Properties and Edgewood Plaza


Please do everything you can to ensure the penalties owed by Sand Hill Properties be restored and enforced. The
judgement in this case was faulty and ignored key items.
We face the possibility of once again losing our grocery store thanks to SHP not living up to their agreement. The
Market is an excellent store and we sure can't afford to lose it.

Please help us.

Jeremy Robinson
115 Primrose
Palo Alto

Sent from my iPad




                                                            1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/9/2018 3:47 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Richard Smallwood <rsmallwd@pacbell.net>
Sent:                          Tuesday, January 09, 2018 3:35 PM
To:                            Council, City
Subject:                       The penalties against Sand Hill Properties



I am writing to ask you to restore the penalties against Sand Hill Properties. We need to protect our community
against the self-indulgent actions of this company.

Richard Smallwood
1795 Hamilton Ave.
Palo Alto, CA 94303




                                                       2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/9/2018 3:47 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Susan Thomsen <susan@thomsenhome.com>
Sent:                              Tuesday, January 09, 2018 1:58 PM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           Re: Edgewood Plaza ruling that blocked charging Sand Hill Properties penalties for
                                   having a vacant grocery store


Dear Honorable Palo Alto City Council Members:

I urge you to get the best possible legal advice on the recent ruling in favor of Sand Hill Properties not having to pay any
penalties for not having had a grocery store present in the Edgewood Shopping Center for several years after the Fresh
Market closed. Not pursuing the ruling further would result in loss of penalty fees for the City of Palo Alto as well as no
guarantee for the neighbors that a grocery store is required in the recent development.

Thank you so much.

Most sincerely,

Susan M. Thomsen
1701 Edgewood Drive
Palo Alto, CA 94303




                                                              3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/9/2018 3:47 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Jane Millman <jane.millman@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Tuesday, January 09, 2018 1:55 PM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         Edgewood Grocery - Sand Hill


Please DO enforce the penalty against Sand Hill for neglecting to have an operating grocery store at Edgewood. You
know all of the reasons why since I live in the neighborhood. Also, I think the city could use the money for some
important goals. Sand Hill is not an honorable company so should pay the consequences.
Thanks for listening!
Jane Millman




                                                          4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/9/2018 3:47 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Shawna Doughman <shawnadoughman@gmail.com>
Sent:                             Tuesday, January 09, 2018 1:27 PM
To:                               Council, City
Subject:                          Edgewood Plaza


To Whom It May Concern:

I am writing to request that the Edgewood Plaza owners be held to the original agreement going backward and forward
to pay a penalty if no grocer is located in the Plaza. They agreed to the penalties and must be held liable (as all city
homeowners are) to the rules therein.

Please obtain expert legal help in this regard and make sure that everything due the city for back‐penalties is clearly
understood and fought for, as well as continued stewardship to the community for the requirements placed upon Sand
Hill to have received approval on this financially successful project.

Thank you.

Shawna Doughman


Sent from my iPhone




                                                            5
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/9/2018 3:47 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                              pmarks@ix.netcom.com
Sent:                              Tuesday, January 09, 2018 12:04 PM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           Please Pursue the Edgewood Ruling


Please pursue the Edgewood Ruling.

I hope you will get the best available legal advice and do everything possible to ensure the penalties are restored and
enforced.

  James P. Marks




                                                            6
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/9/2018 3:47 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                          jamesjchen@aol.com
Sent:                          Tuesday, January 09, 2018 11:43 AM
To:                            Council, City
Subject:                       Edgewood Plaza ruling



As a resident of Crescent Park,
I am writing to request that the City Council investigate the ruling for Sand Hill Properties -- vacating the
penalties that they should have accrued for having a vacant grocery store at Edgewood Plaza. Please get the
best legal advice on whether we should appeal the ruling, review whether our attorneys adequately argued the
case, or address how we should better construct our contracts going forward.

Regards,
James Chen
1060 Lincoln Ave, Palo Alto, CA 94301.




                                                       7
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/9/2018 3:47 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Commercial <rkscomm@yahoo.com>
Sent:                             Tuesday, January 09, 2018 11:11 AM
To:                               Council, City
Subject:                          Please keep up the Edgewood penalties


I have heard that our shopping center owner has increased the rents on small venders there, forcing them to vacate.
Please keep the $5000 day for any day there is not an open grocery there. Thank you, Kay Schauer

Sent from my iPhone




                                                           8
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/9/2018 3:47 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Lenore Cymes <lenraven1@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Tuesday, January 09, 2018 11:06 AM
To:                              Council, City
Subject:                         Edglewood verdict



Dear City Council Members

I am sure you got the email Carla, Jeff and I sent. As a neighbor with a strong vested interest in making a
success of the new market - we need you to do your part. According to the ruling there just has to be a space
for a grocery store , but there doesn’t have to be a grocery story. No matter how I twist it - what is the value of
an empty grocery store? But there is value to the property owners of the grocery store - should something not
work with The Market - Sand Hill has no responsibility to put in an operating grocery store in that space. It
there was an error in the original legal paper work - here is your opportunity to correct it.

Please make sure this error is corrected so none of us have to go through this again.

And - Shop The Market

Thank you
Lenore Cymes
Wildwood Lane




                                                         9
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/9/2018 3:47 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Richard Hlava <rhlava33@gmail.com>
Sent:                          Tuesday, January 09, 2018 10:24 AM
To:                            Council, City
Subject:                       Edgewood Ruling



I'm writing to urge you to vigorously pursue an appeal of Judge Kirwan's ruling regarding the Edgewood
grocery store.

Richard Hlava
1664 Channing Ave.
Palo Alto, CA




                                                     10
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/9/2018 3:47 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Debby Ruskin <debby@ruskingardens.com>
Sent:                              Tuesday, January 09, 2018 10:20 AM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           Penalties - court ruling


Please have PA’s legal teams put in HEROIC efforts to gather legal arguments to appeal the recent court ruling forgiving
the penalties imposed on Sand Hill developers.

The long term impact of the ruling could be devastating to Edgewood’s ability to keep a grocery store.... plus it seems
totally unfair to the spirit of the original agreement! While I’m not a lawyer, I’ve read lots of remarks by lawyers who
share my point of view.

Thank you.
Debby Ruskin
650‐380‐1598




                                                            11
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/9/2018 3:47 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Robert Ruskin <robert.ruskin@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Tuesday, January 09, 2018 10:18 AM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        Sand Hill penalties



Dear City Council.
Please ensure a strong appeal of the recent rulling on penalties for Sand Hill regarding the grocery store at
Edgewood. It is a very valuable community asset and we risk losing it if Sand Hill has less incentive to maintain
a grocery store at that location.
Thank You,
Robert Ruskin
174 Walter Hays Dr
Palo Alto CA




                                                       12
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/9/2018 3:47 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Renee Goumas <neegoumas@yahoo.com>
Sent:                           Tuesday, January 09, 2018 10:13 AM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        Edgewood Plaza



Please consider fighting hard to rule in favor of making Sandhill Properties pay all penalties due for not having
working, open grocery store in place as was required at Edgewood Plaza. There are consequences for bad
behavior. They must pay the fines. Dont let this be another situation where there is no consequence for skirting
the law. Crime equals punishment. Simple as that.

Thank you.
Renee Goumas


Sent from Yahoo Mail for iPhone




                                                        13
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 10:00 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Bonnie Street <bonniestreet@sbcglobal.net>
Sent:                             Tuesday, January 09, 2018 3:55 PM
To:                               Council, City
Subject:                          Sandhill properties


I want to see Sandhill properties pay $5000 a day for not providing a grocery store to the Edgewood Plaza.
The new grocery store we now have is wonderful.
Sincerely, Bonnie Street

Sent from my iPhone




                                                           1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 10:00 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                             Pat Kinney <pkinney48235@gmail.com>
Sent:                             Tuesday, January 09, 2018 4:04 PM
To:                               Council, City
Subject:                          Edgewood Plaza Ruling


Dear Council Members,

  I urge you to do everything possible to ensure that penalties for not having a working grocery store at Edgewood Plaza
are restored and enforced. I am concerned that if The Market at Edgewood should ever leave, we need to be protected
against having another long‐term vacancy.

 With the failure of the College Terrace Market, I am also concerned about the larger question of requiring certain types
of businesses as a public benefit. It that practice continues, please make sure that the legal wording about vacancies is
air‐tight!

 Patricia Kinney
 689 Wildwood Lane




                                                            2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 10:00 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                               Lorraine Menuz <lmenuz@yahoo.com>
Sent:                               Tuesday, January 09, 2018 5:24 PM
To:                                 Council, City
Subject:                            Edgewood Ruling


As a resident of St. Francis I am urging you to pursue and fight the Edgewood Ruling. I find it difficult to believe that with
so many bright people in Palo Alto that we seem to always have people on the City Council that waste so much of our
money and have have made so many poor decisions.
The mayor and council should forfeit any monetary compensation they get until they make positive decisions in the best
interest of the residents of Palo Alto. When the waste(Enron, library overruns, no coordination between departments
etc. ) has been repaid, then they can once again get their outlandish salary for a city of only 50 thousand + residents.
There are many residents that are getting tired of the lack of transparency and making announcements after the fact (
salary compensation).

Do the right thing. Fight the Edgewood Ruling.

Sent from my iPhone




                                                              3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 10:00 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                               Bennett Porter <bennett@surveymonkey.com>
Sent:                               Tuesday, January 09, 2018 5:28 PM
To:                                 Council, City
Subject:                            Market at Edgewood


Dear City council –

Please reconsider your decision regarding Sand Hill Properties and Edgewood Market. We desperately need a market in
the neighborhood and if it wasn’t for neighborhood action groups, like the one I belong to, we wouldn’t have a market.

Please find out more about our position here.

Thank you for your consideration.
bennett porter
palo alto resident and voter




                                                          4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 10:00 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Julie O'Grady <julie@ogradycommunications.com>
Sent:                          Tuesday, January 09, 2018 5:39 PM
To:                            Council, City
Subject:                       Penalties for Sandhill Properties for Edgewood Plaza Grocery Store



Dear council members,

It is my understanding that you will be discussing the issue of penalties for Sandhill Properties since
the neglected to fill the grocery store at Edgewood Plaza for so many months.

Being born and raised in Palo Alto, I'm grateful to see a new market in there once again. (I remember
when Lucky was there)

Without those penalties, shopping center owners will have far less incentive to keep and possibly
subsidize a grocer. Why do we let them off the hook? Palo Alto is thriving in more ways than one. They
should be held accountable.

I encourage you to pursue the penalty ruling further. Is there a reason why you would not pursue this
given the sizable amount of money owed in penalties?

I look forward to your response. I usually sit back and let these things play out but have felt for months
that this was a huge injustice given the contract.

Best,

Julie


--
Julie O'Grady
650-269-9989




                                                        5
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 10:00 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Carla Carvalho <ccarvalho98@hotmail.com>
Sent:                           Tuesday, January 09, 2018 8:53 PM
To:                             Council, City; Keene, James
Subject:                        Edgewood Plaza Ruling



Dear Council Member and City Manager,

Please look critically at the recent ruling on Edgewood Plaza. I ask you to pursue this ruling aggressively and
request that City Attorney and City Manager seek the best possible legal advice ‐ likely an independent, 3rd
party assessment ‐ regarding this ruling and next steps. It would be unacceptable that further evaluation is
not done given the potential implications of such a ruling.

I am offended by Sand Hill's defiance of City Council's November, 2016 penalty of $5000/day for non‐
compliance with the PC ordinance requiring an operating grocery store. Instead of accepting the mea culpa for
their non‐compliance, Sand Hill instead chose to pursue litigation against the City. This shows Sand Hill's
cavalier approach to authority and sets a dangerous precedence for other projects (and other developers) in
Palo Alto. It diminishes your role as a City Council Member, and it demonstrates their lack of respect for our
community.

The outcome of the events at Edgewood Plaza have tremendous implications for the City of Palo Alto that
reach far beyond the Duveneck‐St. Francis neighborhood.

Sincerely,

Carla Marie Carvalho
1924 Edgewood Drive




                                                       6
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 10:00 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                 Cynthia Chin-Lee <cynthiachinlee@gmail.com>
Sent:                                 Tuesday, January 09, 2018 9:43 PM
To:                                   Council, City
Subject:                              Please enforce penalties at Edgewood Plaza



I am a resident of the St Francis Duveneck neighborhood and I believe we should have enforced the penalties
against Sand Hill Properties for not having a grocery store for so long. I would like the city to appeal the judge's
ruling.

Thanks.


Cynthia Chin-Lee
https://www.linkedin.com/in/cynthiachinlee
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cynthia_Chin-Lee
www.cynthiachinlee.com
650-815-9643 (C)




                                                             7
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 10:00 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Gail Thompson <gailt1225@earthlink.net>
Sent:                              Tuesday, January 09, 2018 10:53 PM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           Penalties at Edgewood Plaza for Sand Hill




Sent from my iPhone
Please enforce the penalty as I believe this is merited and sets a precedent for the future.
The Market is an asset to our city & I want it to stay.
Thank you.
Gail Thompson
Palo Alto resident




                                                             8
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 10:00 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Patricia Jones <pkjones1000@icloud.com>
Sent:                          Tuesday, January 09, 2018 5:42 PM
To:                            Council, City
Subject:                       Edgewood Ruling
Attachments:                   What'sWrongWithTheEdgewoodRuling.pdf




I am writing to ask you to find the best legal advice possible on the ruling regarding the developer’s
responsibility for keeping open a market at Edgewood. The recent outcome needs to be revisited. The judge
ignored key wording in the ordinance, reinterpreted a key word in ways that make no sense, and seemed
unaware of major aspects of the case. Please refer to the attached file: “What’s Wrong with the Edgewood
Ruling.” The Council should investigate both how to appeal the ruling and whether the City and its attorneys
argued the case well.

Thank you.

Patricia Jones
1407 Hamilton Avenue


Patricia Jones
www.pkjones.com
pkjones1000@icloud.com




                                                       1
                         What’s Wrong with the Edgewood Ruling
                                    January 8, 2018
The December 15, 2017 ruling by Santa Clara County Superior Court Judge Peter Kirwan says
the City of Palo Alto has no right to insist that the Edgewood Plaza grocery store remain open
and therefore can’t collect penalties when it is not. The City had argued that Edgewood Plaza’s
special zoning ordinance does require the grocery to store be open and available. The ordinance
specifically requires as one of the public benefits of the project:

       Provision of a grocery store in the 20,600 sq. ft. building. The commercial property
       owner shall ensure the continued use of the 20,600 sq. ft. building as a grocery store for
       the life of the project;
               From page 3 of City of Palo Alto Ordinance 5224, https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/39188


Kirwan ruled the language above didn’t mean the grocery store had to be open and operating and
instead could be permanently closed, as happened after The Fresh Market shut down the store
back in March 2015 along with all its other West Coast locations. His ruling thus precludes the
City from collecting some or all of about $2.3 million in penalties from the shopping center for
violating the zoning ordinance during 2015 to 2017.

There are serious defects in Kirwan’s ruling, including:

Ignoring His Own Dictionary: Kirwan reads the clause above and focused in on the required
“continued use.” He says,

       The word “use,” when employed as a noun, refers to the manner or purpose for which
       something is used. (See The American Heritage Dictionary (2d College Ed.) p. 1331
       [meaning of “use” includes “the application of employment of something for some
       purpose” and “[t]he manner of using”).
               From page 10 of http://paneighborhoods.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/12/Decision-on-Petition-for-Writ-of-Mandate-and-
               Oder-for-Further-Briefing-12-15-17-3.pdf


Using the first definition Kirwan cites, the ordinance requires the 20,600 sq. ft. building to be
“applied” to the purpose of having a grocery store. But there is no grocery store when the
building is vacant any more than there is a petting zoo or a blimp factory there. Under the
second definition, the “manner of using” the building should be as a grocery store. But a vacant
building isn’t being used at all and is definitely not being used as a grocery store. In short, the
very dictionary definitions Kirwan cites clearly demonstrate that a vacant building doesn’t
comply with the ordinance.

Ignoring the Full Clause: Kirwan doesn’t analyze the first part of the clause, which requires,
“Provision of a grocery store in the 20,600 sq. ft. building.” Merriam-Webster.com (accessed
1/7/18) says the word “provision” means “the act or process of providing.” A vacant building
does not provide a grocery store, just as it doesn’t provide a petting zoo or a blimp factory, and
so doesn’t comply with the requirement. It’s odd that Kirwan skipped over this key phrase,
given that his ruling earlier states:
       … courts give significance to every single word, phrase, sentence, and part of an act in
       pursuing a legislative purpose. (page 9)

Ignoring the Intent: Kirwan himself cites in his ruling a precedent that:

       “... If the language is clean and unambiguous, courts follow the plain meaning of the
       statute. … Courts should not give language of a statute its literal meaning if doing so
       would result in absurd consequences unintended by the Legislature. In that case, the
       intent of the law prevails over the letter, and the letter, if possible, will be read so as to
       conform to the spirit of the act.” (Pages 9-10)

So if Kirwan thought the requirement for a grocery store was ambiguous, he should have looked
to the intent. Yet his ruling doesn’t discuss intent whatsoever. Doing so would require noting
that Albertsons had left the center years earlier and there had been no operating grocery store
since. The vacant space left by Albertsons represented half of the shopping center, eroding its
vitality and attracting crime. How would having the same unfortunate situation that already
existed be a public benefit? The PC ordinance itself says:

       Development of the site under the provisions of the PC Planned Community District will
       result in public benefits not otherwise attainable by application of the regulations of
       general districts or combining districts.

In other words, the city understood that it couldn’t normally compel an operating grocery store
but was doing so through the ordinance, which Sand Hill voluntarily agreed to abide by. That
was the intent.

Another indication of the intent of the PC is the City’s statement that:

       The proposed project will refurbish an existing retail center to provide services to the
       local residents who have been underserved since the grocery store closed.
               From page 15 of November 3, 2011 ARB Staff Report at http://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/30951


If the City had only intended the 20,600 sq. ft. building be restricted to grocery use, it would not
have stated that the intent was “to provide services” but rather only to provide sites for potential
services. And it would not have suggested there would necessarily be any change from the
closed grocery situation at the time the PC was being debated.

And §18.38.080(c) of the City’s Municipal Code says a PC Development Program Statement
shall include “the conditions or characteristics of occupancy, use, or operation,” that is, not
merely the allowed uses. So governing the operations was a legitimate intent of the PC.

Interpreting the ordinance language to continue to allow no operating grocery store is exactly the
“absurd consequence” of an improper interpretation that Kirwan himself claimed courts should
avoid.

Introducing a Different Definition: Kirwan interprets the phrase “continued use” to allow
vacancy by noting the word “use” has a special meaning in zoning laws:
       .. in the context of local zoning or land use laws, term “use” typically refers to the type of
       use or intensity of use allowed for any given property. (See Miller and Star, Cal. Real Est
       (4th Ed.) § 21:8 [“A typical zoning ordinance includes an extensive array of definitions
       and classifications by type or intensity of use, and includes a map or series of maps
       dividing the jurisdiction into areas or “zoning districts” in which different uses are
       permitted …”]. (Page 10)

It’s true that Palo Alto’s own Municipal Code defines an array of “uses” and each property is
allowed to have one or more of these uses. For example, one “use” defined in the code is “Retail
Service” and another is “Day Care Center.” But suppose you have a vacant building on a
property that allows both these uses. You couldn’t say that the vacant building’s “continued use”
is “Retail Service” any more than you could say it is “Day Care Center.” Rather, those are the
allowed uses, but while vacant the building has neither use. So when Kirwan interpreted the
phrase “continued use” to mean that the building should continuously meet the zoning use of
grocery store, he should have then ruled that a vacant building doesn’t.

Kirwan’s reinterpretation of “use” to mean “zoning use” has another problem. Substituting his
interpretation into the ordinance language yields, “The commercial property owner shall ensure
the continued zoning use …” But property owners don’t and can’t ensure zoning uses. Rather,
the City itself establishes the zoning uses of a property by enacting laws. It would make no
sense for the City to require an owner to ensure a zoning law remain in effect when everyone
knows the owner couldn’t possibly do that. It’s another absurd interpretation .. and Kirwan
acknowledged he was supposed to avoid absurd interpretations.

Ignoring Why Ordinances Vary: Kirwan argues for his interpretation of “use” by saying:

       This conclusion is bolstered by the City’s own prior treatment of the terms “use” and
       “operation” in a very similar context. In 2010, the City adopted PC Ordinance No. 5069,
       which regards a mixed-use development project including space for a grocery store. The
       ordinance lists permitted and conditionally permitted “land uses,” including residential,
       business offices, retail services, farmers markets, and others. The ordinance goes on to
       set forth “[s]pecial limitations on land uses.” As related to the grocery store, those
       limitations state in relevant part: “The grocery store tenant shall occupy and begin
       operations prior to any office tenant occupancy. … The grocery store shall remain in
       continuous operation as a grocery store. ‘Continuous shall be defined to include brief
       closure for ordinary business purposes.’” The City apparently understood the terms “use”
       and “operations” to mean something different relative to PC Ordinance 5069, with “use”
       referring to the general way property may be used and “operation” referring to the act of
       conducting business. (Page 11)

This other PC is for College Terrace Centre, which was a very different project. There, the intent
was to preserve a grocery store but replace the buildings on the site, whereas Edgewood Plaza
had no grocer and a goal was to preserve all the buildings, including two that were of historic
significance. The College Terrace Centre PC had to grapple with an additional issue, namely
that the original grocery store (JJ&F) might go out of business and City wanted any successor to
be very similar. There was no such concern at Edgewood Plaza, where the type and manner of
function of the grocery store was not specified in any manner. That the language in the two PCs
should then differ is unremarkable. Furthermore, Kirwan’s cites no evidence that the City
intentionally chose different words for the two PCs because it didn’t care if Edgewood’s grocery
store was vacant.

Ignoring Other Evidence: Kirwan concludes this part of the ruling by saying:

       Extrinsic aids may be examined to resolve a statutory ambiguity, including legislative
       history materials. (Branciforte Heights, LLC v. City of Santa Cruz (2006) 138
       Cal.App.4th 914,926.) Here, Respondents did not point to any extrinsic matters
       compelling that the PC Ordinance No. 5224 should be interpreted as requiring Petitioner
       to ensure the active operation of a grocery store at all times. (Page 12)

But there is such evidence. The minutes of the February 29, 2012 Planning Commission meeting
discussing the proposed Edgewood Plaza ordinance cite Jim Baer, representing Sand Hill and
arguing for the ordinance, as saying:

       “With respect to public benefits, there is a commitment to provide a grocery store for
       which there are two precedents for this being the overriding benefit. At Alma Plaza no
       homes could be sold without there being a grocery store that both signed a lease and
       pulled tenant improvement building plans. That grocery store commitment was for the
       useful life of the building. I may be incorrect. It may be in perpetuity or for the useful
       life of the building. JJ&F 50,000 square foot office building was added to preserve an
       8,000 foot grocery store, to rebuild an 8,000 foot grocery store. Enormous increased
       development rights and again I’m not sure if it is in perpetuity or for the useful life of the
       improvement as its developed so the commitment to write a grocery store for its useful
       life or in perpetuity and I’m sorry I don’t have the Ordinance presented to you in front of
       me, is an overwhelming public benefit that cannot be compelled under any Ordinance
       including the PC Ordinance. This could be an athletic club, this could be a Walgreens,
       CVS, Rite Aid. To provide a grocery store is what the community wanted and is of
       enormous public benefit.”
       Page 371 of http://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/41657


Note he does not say the public benefit is to provide merely a building that could remain vacant.
Rather, he twice states there a grocery store itself will be provided and labels that the public
benefit. That definition of the public benefit, supplied directly by the spokesperson for the
shopping center owners during deliberation of the ordinance, is consistent with the City’s claim
that the public benefit requirement written into the ordinance was for an operating grocery, not a
merely a building restricted to having a grocery store in it.

The quote above was not the first time Sand Hill promised a functioning grocery store. The
2009 press release co-issued by Sand Hill Properties and the Edgewood Architectural Control
Committee following the resolution of the latter’s lawsuit stated:

       The owners and developers of Edgewood Shopping Center are committed to bringing and
       will bring a viable grocery store and operator to the renovated property.
An empty building is not a “viable grocery store.”

Carla Carvalho
Jeff Levinsky
Lenore Cymes
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/5/2018 7:53 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Colt Rosensweig <michigancolt@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Wednesday, January 03, 2018 7:14 PM
To:                             Council, City
Subject:                        Food delivery robots



To whom it may concern:

I am deeply troubled by the fact that enormous robots for food delivery are being driven willy nilly down the
middle of downtown sidewalks. These robots take up much of the walking space, and are piloted by people who
are, to all appearances, bafflingly unaware of what they’re doing. I walk dogs in Palo Alto nearly every day. My
dogs are very well-mannered and well-socialized, but some of them have been rather apprehensive about having
a huge robot driven directly at them, and I can’t blame them. And that’s what happens every single time we
encounter one of these atrocious devices—the person in control aims it straight for my dogs and acts like
they’re deaf when I tell them in no uncertain terms to get it away from them. Or they just laugh and drive it
even closer.

I don’t understand why motorized robots are even permitted on the sidewalks, when there are rules already
against things like riding bikes there. There is no reason a human can’t deliver the food. People need jobs and
generally people don’t threaten other people’s dogs every time they travel down the sidewalks. These robots are
totally unnecessary and downright dangerous. I should not have to worry about one of my dogs being mowed
down by a giant robot driven by a lackwit every time I feel like walking in downtown Palo Alto.

Thank you,
Colt Rosensweig




                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/8/2018 8:30 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com>
Sent:                          Friday, January 05, 2018 8:06 PM
To:                            RJonsen@menlopark.org; dcbertini@menlopark.org; Council, City; Watson, Ron;
                               Perron, Zachary; citycouncil@menlopark.org; council@redwoodcity.org;
                               paloaltofreepress@gmail.com; michael.gennaco@oirgroup.com; Keene, James;
                               Reifschneider, James; stevendlee@alumni.duke.edu; timothygray@sbcglobal.net;
                               swagstaffe@smcgov.org
Subject:                       From the archives of Aram James -the trial of Palo Alto Police Officer Craig Lee and
                               Michael Kan -circa 2005
Attachments:                   K Sinunu re try Kan and Lee 2 july 2014 update.doc




Sent from my iPhone




                                                         1
5/3/2005


To: District Attorney George Kennedy & Assistant District Attorney Karyn Sinunu


Re: Request that your office retry the criminal case against Palo Alto officers Craig
Lee and Michael Kan

Dear Mr. George Kennedy & Ms. Karyn Sinunu:

I am writing to you to request that your office retry the criminal case against Palo
Alto police officers Michael Kan and Craig Lee. I would like to make some
observations and comments regarding the recently completed trial in this matter
wherein the jury ultimately hung 8 to 4 for guilty. I would then like to comment on
the importance of this case being retried. I hope you will consider all of my
comments in the constructive manner in which they are intended.

           Comments re the recently completed trial of Defendants Kan & Lee

      First I think it is important to acknowledge the fine work performed during the
       course of all of the proceedings in this matter by Deputy District Attorney
       Peter Waite. Not only was his preparation and presentation of the case
       outstanding, but it was apparent that his confidence in the strength of the
       case grew as the matter proceeded. No doubt the case was not tried without
       some mistakes and at least one questionable judgment call, but, given all of
       the many pressures and roles being balanced, it was an outstanding job. By
       the time the case went to the jury it was my observation/opinion that Mr.
       Waite had out performed the very talented attorneys for the defendants. (I
       sat through the entire PX and trial in this matter.)

      From the perspective of a former public defender and trial lawyer it was clear
       to me that Mr. Waite and his investigative team (Sgt. Mike Denson and Sgt.
       Ron Watson from the PAPD) left few stones unturned in an effort to assure
       that the prosecution in this matter was both professionally managed and
       aggressively pursued.

      I had no sense during the trial of this matter, despite the obvious political
       pressures and ramifications for the entire prosecution team, that at anytime
       that the prosecution team treated this case lightly or in any fashion differently
       than any other serious felony matter. Finally, Mr. Waite, in an example that
       more public servants should model, made himself available to members of the
       public who had endless questions for and observations to share with him.

      During the jury selection process in this case Mr. Waite’s questions and the
       nature of the responses by prospective jurors re the role of race, racial
       profiling, the right of citizens to be free of undue and unwarranted
       harassment by the police etc., were both fascinating and instructive re the
       current public mood towards law enforcement. Had the voir dire process been
       taped it would have made a provocative documentary on the current status of
       the relationship between law enforcement and the community. As indicted by


                                           1
    the responses during voir dire, as it currently stands, the relationship appears
    tenuous at best.

   There were numerous jurors who expressed just barely restrained anger re
    the recent killing of Bic Cau Tran by San Jose police officer Chad Marshall and
    similarly deep concern re other recent high profile killings by members of the
    SJPD.

   What came across strongest from the jury selection process is that both the
    depth and width of anger and concern over misconduct by law enforcement in
    this county is much greater than reflected by the mainstream media in Santa
    Clara County. Whereas the conventional wisdom has been that police cases
    are hard to successfully prosecute in this county the current dynamically
    shifting demographics, combined with a well informed citizenry re police
    misconduct issues, may well have changed the landscape permanently. Given
    the above, it would appear that police prosecutions are much more like to be
    successful in this county now and in the future.

   During the course of the jury selection the defense exercised a peremptory
    challenge against the one black female who made it into the jury box. Given
    the quality of her responses to the questions posed by attorneys for both
    sides it was clear that this prospective juror was totally free of bias for either
    side.

   Despite the fact that Mr. Waite made an appropriate Batson/Wheeler
    objection that the defense, specifically attorney Harry Stern, had exercised
    the challenge in a in a racially discriminatory fashion the judge, Andrea
    Bryan, declined to ask defense council for a showing of specific bias (to
    establish a race–neutral reasons for the strike) or to find a prima facie case
    for requiring a response by the defense. The judge should have reseated the
    juror in the presence of the entire panel as a clear message to the defense
    that the racist removal of a fair minded juror would not be tolerated. (Case
    law clearly supports the notion that one race based peremptory challenge is
    sufficient to trigger the remedies contemplated by Batson/Wheeler and its
    descendants.)

   Given that only three African-Americans were in the initial jury panel of
    approximately 160 perspective jurors called for in this case, there is little
    doubt that the discriminatory strike of the one black female to make it into
    the jury box denied the people a jury made up of a cross-section of the
    community and thus a fair trial.

   The following quotes serve as a reminder of the impact of a discriminatory
    challenge based on race in the context of this case: … “The harm from
    discriminatory jury selection extends beyond that inflicted on the defendant
    and the excluded juror to touch the entire community.” Batson V. Kentucky,
    476 U.S, at 77 (1986).

    “The need for public confidence is especially high in cases involving race-
    related crimes. In such cases, emotions in the affected community will
    inevitably be heated and volatile. Public confidence in the integrity of the
    criminal justice system is essential for preserving community peace in trials
    involving race related crimes.” (Citations omitted). Finally, as to Judge


                                         2
    Bryan’s role in denying the community a fair trial the following is pertinent:
    “Be it at the hands of the state or the defense, if a court allows the juror to be
    excluded because of group bias, it is a willing participant in a scheme that
    could only undermine the very foundation of our system of justice—our
    citizens’ ” (citations omitted).

   In addition to the failure of Judge Andrea Bryan to perform her constitutional
    responsibility to ensure the selection of a fair jury in this matter it was
    apparent that the court allowed the atmosphere surrounding the trial to favor
    the defense. Not only did the court appear to bend over backwards to rule in
    favor of the defense on issues where you would normally not expect such
    favorable rulings, but the court personnel, including the bailiffs, routinely
    acted with favoritism to members of law enforcement. This included providing
    preferential seating in the courtroom to members of law enforcement, to
    allowing outbursts by law enforcement spectators to go unpunished while, at
    the same time, closely monitoring the conduct of non-law enforcement
    citizens in the courtroom to the point of a constitutional chill on access.

   Despite all of the efforts by the court and its personnel to tamper with the
    jury selection, evidentiary rulings, deny equal access to the courtroom to the
    public versus members of law enforcement, all in a thinly veiled attempt to
    direct a verdict of acquittal, 8 members of the community still rendered a
    verdict of guilty refusing, in the greatest tradition of independent jurors, to
    buckle under the weight of the intimidating atmosphere allowed to exist by
    Judge Andrea Bryan. All of this speaks volumes re the strength of the
    evidence in this case and the fine job done by the prosecution team.

   Despite the fact that only 8 of the 12 jurors in this case voted for guilty the
    verdict was still one of historic proportions in Santa Clara County. I know of
    no other case in recent Santa Clara County history where 8 jurors have voted
    to convict police officers for the beating of an African-American citizen. This
    result calls out for a retrial.

                   Conclusion re why case should be retried.

   Community sentiment: I have enclosed an editorial from the Palo Alto Daily
    News, Accused officers should be retried, April 20, 2005, outlining some of
    the reasons why this case should be retried and encouraging your office to do
    so, both in the interest of the Palo Alto Police Department and the Community
    at large.

   Given the statements attributed to Karyn Sinunu in the San Jose Mercury
    News (enclosed), (April 19, 2005), that the district attorney usually retries
    hung juries and given that in this case 8 citizens voted for guilty under the
    difficult conditions described in the first section of this letter, failure to do so
    in this case would feed into the perception that there is two standards of
    justice in this community, one for the ordinary citizen and one for police
    officers.

   Given comments in a recent article in The Recorder, April 27, 2005, that there
    will be a chase for endorsements by police and law enforcement groups by
    the presumed candidates for District Attorney in 2006, and given Ms. Sinunu’s
    apparent intent to run for this position, failure to retry this case might well be


                                          3
      seen as decision based on political expediency rather than the merits of
      retying this case.

     It is clear that this case would likely not have come to light but for the
      courageous act of a few “whistle blowing” members of the PAPD willing to
      break down the traditional “code of silence” that so perniciously permeates
      much of law enforcement in this community. By the jury’s verdict in this case
      the community has spoken: it is time, once and for all, to send the message
      that the so-called “code of silence” will not longer be tolerated by those we
      entrust with the awesome power of the badge. Failure to retry this case would
      discourage officers in the future to speak out against rogue officers in their
      ranks and, as result, put the public at risk of more unwarranted beatings and
      deaths.

     Given all of the above, the strength of the evidence presented in the first trial,
      the resources and efforts expended by the prosecution, the strong likelihood
      of a conviction beyond a reasonable doubt at a second trial, the efforts of the
      trial judge to sabotage the prosecution’s case in the first trial, and the strong
      public support for a retrial in this matter it is my request that you exercise
      your prosecutorial discretion in favor of a retrial in this case.

      Sincerely,



     Aram James
    Citizen Advocate




                                          4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 1:33 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Sent:                           Tuesday, January 09, 2018 4:24 PM
To:                             kfsndesk; newsdesk; rosenheim@kpix.cbs.com; Irv Weissman; francis.collins@nih.gov;
                                midge@thebarretts.com; Mayor; steve.brandau; Mark Standriff; Mark Kreutzer;
                                paul.caprioglio; esmeralda.soria@fresno.gov; oliver.baines; Dan Richard; Daniel Zack;
                                Steve Wayte; steve.hogg; Steven Feinstein; Joel Stiner; jboren; huidentalsanmateo;
                                robert.andersen; beachrides; Leodies Buchanan; bballpod; bearwithme1016@att.net;
                                Cathy Lewis; Council, City; david pomaville; Raymond Rivas; fmerlo@wildelectric.net;
                                hennessy; info@superide1.com; Jason Tarvin; jerry ruopoli; kclark; Kirk Sorensen;
                                lxcastro93@yahoo.com; leager; lawrence.ingrassia@latimes.com; mmt4@pge.com; nick
                                yovino; nchase@bayareanewsgroup.com; popoff; pavenjitdhillon@yahoo.com;
                                richard.wenzel; russ@topperjewelers.com; thomas.esqueda@fresno.gov; terry; Tom
                                Lang; Mark Waldrep
Subject:                        Fwd: KCBS says Sat. 9-30-17: Many drug Co. have ops in P.R. C/B shortages at hosps.
                                etc.




---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Tue, Jan 9, 2018 at 4:13 PM
Subject: Fwd: KCBS says Sat. 9-30-17: Many drug Co. have ops in P.R. C/B shortages at hosps. etc.
To: Doug Vagim <dvagim@gmail.com>, dennisbalakian <dennisbalakian@sbcglobal.net>, David Balakian
<davidbalakian@sbcglobal.net>



---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Tue, Jan 9, 2018 at 4:09 PM
Subject: Fwd: KCBS says Sat. 9-30-17: Many drug Co. have ops in P.R. C/B shortages at hosps. etc.
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>


   Tuesday, January 9, 2018

   To all-


    This morning, ON TUESDAY, JANUARY 9, 2018, JANUARY 9, 2018 KCBS San Francisco did a story
re IV bags containing all sorts of medications being in short supply across the U.S. because electrical power
still has not been fully restored in Puerto Rico. All kinds of IV bags. One Co., Baxter, makes 43% of the IV
bags used in the U.S. and it makes them in P.R. Apparently, the lack of power at one or more of their facilities
in P.R. is contributing to the shortage of IV bags and the medications they contain.

   One man who was interviewed said that his wife is suffering from brain c. and he watched a nurse in San
Diego stand there for 45 minutes pumping in medication because of the shortage of IV bags. She could have
been helping o. pts.
                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 1:33 PM

  They interviewed a doctor at Mass. Gen. Hospital in Boston and he said that if the flu epidemic turns really
serious in the coming days and weeks, that the shortage of IV bags could cause real problems.

   So if the Russian collusion story comes up empty, we might review the Trump Administration's efforts, or
lack thereof, after Hurricane Maria in P.R., to get power restored there. We were told at the time that P.R. is in
the middle of a big ocean.

   If such a disaster had befallen Italy of Spain, American help to get power restored would have been
unrelenting and successful by now.

  L. William Harding
  Fresno, Ca.


---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Sun, Nov 5, 2017 at 1:56 AM
Subject: Fwd: KCBS says Sat. 9-30-17: Many drug Co. have ops in P.R. C/B shortages at hosps. etc.
To: francis.collins@nih.gov



---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Sun, Nov 5, 2017 at 1:54 AM
Subject: Fwd: KCBS says Sat. 9-30-17: Many drug Co. have ops in P.R. C/B shortages at hosps. etc.
To: Doug Vagim <dvagim@gmail.com>, Mayor <mayor@fresno.gov>, CityManager
<citymanager@fresno.gov>, Dan Richard <danrichard@mac.com>, huidentalsanmateo
<huidentalsanmateo@gmail.com>, bballpod <bballpod@aol.com>, kfsndesk <kfsndesk@abc.com>, newsdesk
<newsdesk@cbs47.tv>, rosenheim@kpix.cbs.com, Mark Standriff <mark.standriff@fresno.gov>,
midge@thebarretts.com



---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Sun, Nov 5, 2017 at 1:49 AM
Subject: Fwd: KCBS says Sat. 9-30-17: Many drug Co. have ops in P.R. C/B shortages at hosps. etc.
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>



   Nov. 5, 2017

   Looks like we finally got through:

  http://www.refinery29.com/2017/11/179475/puerto-rico-power-restoration-timeline



                                                         2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 1:33 PM
  It seems that somebody finally called the White House. See my emails below. Sept. 30 to Nov. 1. All of
October.


   LH

---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Fri, Oct 27, 2017 at 1:22 AM
Subject: Fwd: KCBS says Sat. 9-30-17: Many drug Co. have ops in P.R. C/B shortages at hosps. etc.
To: huidentalsanmateo <huidentalsanmateo@gmail.com>, Dan Richard <danrichard@mac.com>,
dennisbalakian <dennisbalakian@sbcglobal.net>, David Balakian <davidbalakian@sbcglobal.net>, Doug
Vagim <dvagim@gmail.com>, Daniel Zack <daniel.zack@fresno.gov>, Paul Dictos <paul@dictos.com>,
beachrides <beachrides@sbcglobal.net>, "paul.caprioglio" <paul.caprioglio@fresno.gov>, Cathy Lewis
<catllewis@gmail.com>, firstvp@fresnopoa.org, Raymond Rivas <financialadvisor007@gmail.com>,
fmerlo@wildelectric.net, Joel Stiner <jastiner@gmail.com>, info@superide1.com, leager
<leager@fresnoedc.com>, mmt4@pge.com, nick yovino <npyovino@gmail.com>,
nchase@bayareanewsgroup.com, pavenjitdhillon@yahoo.com, russ@topperjewelers.com, Steve Wayte
<steve4liberty@gmail.com>, thomas.esqueda@fresno.gov, terry <terry@terrynagel.com>



---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Fri, Oct 27, 2017 at 1:00 AM
Subject: Fwd: KCBS says Sat. 9-30-17: Many drug Co. have ops in P.R. C/B shortages at hosps. etc.
To: bballpod <bballpod@aol.com>, Irv Weissman <irv@stanford.edu>, francis.collins@nih.gov, Mayor
<mayor@fresno.gov>, CityManager <citymanager@fresno.gov>, Mark Standriff
<mark.standriff@fresno.gov>, newsdesk <newsdesk@cbs47.tv>, kfsndesk <kfsndesk@abc.com>, jboren
<jboren@fresnobee.com>, rosenheim@kpix.cbs.com



---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Fri, Oct 27, 2017 at 12:05 AM
Subject: Fwd: KCBS says Sat. 9-30-17: Many drug Co. have ops in P.R. C/B shortages at hosps. etc.
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>


   Update to the attached on Thurs. Oct. 26, 2017


   Last night, the CBS Evening News had a piece about the disaster in Puerto Rico STILL causing drug makers
there to be out of action or with much reduced output.

   Dr. John Lapook did the story for CBS. One essential product becoming in short supply now across the
United States as a result of the disaster, a month old now in Puerto Rico, are IV bags with things like sugar and
saline. Many kinds of IV bags.


                                                        3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 1:33 PM
   The American Hospital Association says this is not a crisis yet, but is quickly becoming a crisis in public
health.

   So now this has been reported on KCBS San Francisco, then on NBR, and now on the CBS Evening News.

   Can all of these news organizations be lying?

  I am confident that with all of that publicity that this situation will reach the attention of members of
Congress. I send these emails to Dr. Burns at Kaiser, Dr. Weissman at Stanford, and to Dr. Collins at NIH.

   If no one in Congress has heard about this now, then we need new people in Congress.

   No doubt some Americans are dying because of this. I foresee action by Congress, if they plan to seek re-
election anyway.

   L. William Harding
   Fresno, Ca./


   See the attached from Sept. 30 and Oct. 11, 2017.


 --------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Thu, Oct 12, 2017 at 2:25 AM
Subject: Fwd: KCBS says Sat. 9-30-17: Many drug Co. have ops in P.R. C/B shortages at hosps. etc.
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>, bballpod <bballpod@aol.com>, Irv Weissman
<irv@stanford.edu>, francis.collins@nih.gov, firstvp@fresnopoa.org, Mayor <mayor@fresno.gov>,
CityManager <citymanager@fresno.gov>, "city.council" <city.council@cityofpaloalto.org>, Mark Standriff
<mark.standriff@fresno.gov>, Mark Kreutzer <mlkreutzer@yahoo.com>, midge@thebarretts.com, beachrides
<beachrides@sbcglobal.net>, kfsndesk <kfsndesk@abc.com>, newsdesk <newsdesk@cbs47.tv>,
rosenheim@kpix.cbs.com, Dan Richard <danrichard@mac.com>, Daniel Zack <daniel.zack@fresno.gov>,
David Balakian <davidbalakian@sbcglobal.net>, dennisbalakian <dennisbalakian@sbcglobal.net>, terry
<terry@terrynagel.com>, "Greg.Gatzka" <Greg.Gatzka@co.kings.ca.us>, Raymond Rivas
<financialadvisor007@gmail.com>, hennessy <hennessy@stanford.edu>, esmeralda.soria@fresno.gov,
"paul.caprioglio" <paul.caprioglio@fresno.gov>, Paul Dictos <paul@dictos.com>, Joel Stiner
<jastiner@gmail.com>, Cathy Lewis <catllewis@gmail.com>



   Wednesday, Oct. 11, 2017

   Update to the information in the attached, from Sept. 30. Tonight, Oct. 11, 2017, the Nightly Bus. Report
said that the FDA says that 10% of the drugs prescribed in the U.S. are made in P.R. Many of the plants still
have no electricity. Expect shortages of some meds.

   So now I have heard this from KCBS-SF on 9-30 and now, 12 days later, again on NBR.

   And to be clear, this does not just portend shortages IN PR, but in the entire U.S. (and probably
beyond).
                                                        4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 1:33 PM

   This is going to Dr.Burns at Kaiser, Dr. Weissman at Stanford, and Dr. Collins at NIH.

   Dr. Collins- Please forward this to the President. KCBS mentioned cancer drugs, immune system
suppressors and diabetic supplies. One other category, as I recall.


   LH



From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Sat, Sep 30, 2017 at 12:47 PM
Subject: Fwd: KCBS says Sat. 9-30-17: Many drug Co. have ops in P.R. C/B shortages at hosps. etc.
To: francis.collins@nih.gov



---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Sat, Sep 30, 2017 at 12:05 PM
Subject: KCBS says Sat. 9-30-17: Many drug Co. have ops in P.R. C/B shortages at hosps. etc.
To: bballpod <bballpod@aol.com>, Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>, Irv Weissman
<irv@stanford.edu>, Doug Vagim <dvagim@gmail.com>, Dan Richard <danrichard@mac.com>,
dennisbalakian <dennisbalakian@sbcglobal.net>, David Balakian <davidbalakian@sbcglobal.net>, Daniel Zack
<daniel.zack@fresno.gov>, Paul Dictos <paul@dictos.com>, david pomaville <pomaville165@sbcglobal.net>,
kfsndesk <kfsndesk@abc.com>, newsdesk <newsdesk@cbs47.tv>, rosenheim@kpix.cbs.com, jboren
<jboren@fresnobee.com>, terry <terry@terrynagel.com>, Mayor <mayor@fresno.gov>, CityManager
<citymanager@fresno.gov>, "city.council" <city.council@cityofpaloalto.org>, esmeralda.soria@fresno.gov,
"paul.caprioglio" <paul.caprioglio@fresno.gov>, Mark Standriff <mark.standriff@fresno.gov>, Joel Stiner
<jastiner@gmail.com>, Steve Wayte <steve4liberty@gmail.com>, "steve.hogg" <steve.hogg@fresno.gov>,
beachrides <beachrides@sbcglobal.net>, "steve.brandau" <steve.brandau@fresno.gov>, Cathy Lewis
<catllewis@gmail.com>, mmt4@pge.com, midge@thebarretts.com, info@superide1.com,
debra.perrone@stanford.edu, firstvp@fresnopoa.org, "robert.andersen" <robert.andersen@fresno.gov>, Leodies
Buchanan <leodiesbuchanan@yahoo.com>, Raymond Rivas <financialadvisor007@gmail.com>,
fmerlo@wildelectric.net, Steven Feinstein <steven.feinstein@ionicmaterials.com>, "Greg.Gatzka"
<Greg.Gatzka@co.kings.ca.us>, huidentalsanmateo <huidentalsanmateo@gmail.com>, hennessy
<hennessy@stanford.edu>, "igorstrav ." <mwaldrep@aixrecords.com>, kclark <kclark@westlandswater.org>,
Mark Kreutzer <mlkreutzer@yahoo.com>, leager <leager@fresnoedc.com>, nick yovino
<npyovino@gmail.com>, "oliver.baines" <oliver.baines@fresno.gov>, "clinton.olivier"
<clinton.olivier@fresno.gov>, pavenjitdhillon@yahoo.com, popoff <popoff@pbworld.com>,
russ@topperjewelers.com, thomas.esqueda@fresno.gov, "richard.wenzel" <richard.wenzel@aecom.com>,
yicui@stanford.edu




   Sat. morning, 9-30-17



                                                       5
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 1:33 PM
   Dr. Burns- KCBS reported in the past hour that many drug Cos. and medical device makers have operations
in Puerto Rico. Without power, some, at least, are not operating and that could lead to shortages at hospitals,
clinics etc.

   They mentioned c. drugs, immuno- suppressing drugs for transplant pts., and supplies used by diabetics.

   If the Trump Admin. cannot or will not get help to P.R., the medical community and its pts. could feel this.

   They said that the fed. government encouraged the drug cos. etc. to set up ops in P.R. to help the economy
there.

   Please spread the word throughout Kaiser.

   Copy going to Dr. Irv Weissman at Stanford. Please spread the alarm.

   I looked at one device I use, and it says "Made in the USA". Sounds great, but then P.R. is in the USA.


   Thank you.


   L. William Harding
   Fresno




                                                        6
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 1:33 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Sent:                            Wednesday, January 10, 2018 10:31 AM
To:                              dennisbalakian; David Balakian; Daniel Zack; Mayor; Council, City; Mark Kreutzer; Mark
                                 Standriff; esmeralda.soria@fresno.gov; paul.caprioglio; steve.brandau; Joel Stiner; Steve
                                 Wayte; oliver.baines; jboren; kfsndesk; newsdesk; rosenheim@kpix.cbs.com; Cathy
                                 Lewis; leager; beachrides; bearwithme1016@att.net; Raymond Rivas;
                                 fmerlo@wildelectric.net; jerry ruopoli; Jason Tarvin; lxcastro93@yahoo.com;
                                 midge@thebarretts.com; nick yovino; nchase@bayareanewsgroup.com;
                                 russ@topperjewelers.com; terry; Leodies Buchanan; Dan Richard
Subject:                         Fwd: Ohio kicking voters off of roles: Hearing before Supreme Court




---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Wed, Jan 10, 2018 at 10:18 AM
Subject: Fwd: Ohio kicking voters off of roles: Hearing before Supreme Court
To: Doug Vagim <dvagim@gmail.com>



---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>
Date: Wed, Jan 10, 2018 at 9:53 AM
Subject: Ohio kicking voters off of roles: Hearing before Supreme Court
To: Loran Harding <loran.harding@stanfordalumni.org>



   Wed. Jan. 10, 2018

   Doug- Ohio is doing this: If you don't vote in an election, they send you a post card asking you to verify that
you are who you say you are and that you live where you say you live. Then, if you don't respond to the post
card and you don't vote in two more elections, they remove your name from the voting roles.

  The rich Republicans who own Ohio say "NOOOO, we're just cleaning up our voting roles. What do you
mean?"

   The Obama Admin. had said that this looks illegal. The Trump Admin. has changed sides on this.

   So today, apparently, this is getting a hearing before merely the U.S. Supreme Court.

   KCBS SF today had a law prof. on from one of the Loyola Universities. She said that states do have broad
powers wrt how they run elections, but there is a federal law and (an obscure, probably toothless, document
called) the U.S. Constitution. IT sets some standards which the states cannot violate. So this is today the subject
of a hearing before the high court.


                                                           1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 1:33 PM
   If Ohio prevails, I am sure that the Republicans who own the Central Valley will want to similarly clean
their voting roles (of Democrats) and of loud-mouthed Stanford grads who see them for what they are: a bunch
of brigands.

   LH

   BTW, KCBS also said that a man in the Calif. legislature has a bill in the hopper that would do this: Abolish
the State income tax and allow taxpayers to make a contribution to the State treasury instead. Then, they could
take a deduction on their federal tax return for that deduction.

   KCBS then had a tax professor on from San Jose State. Former lawyer with the IRS. She said that the IRS
would probably disallow the deduction as soon as the return is filed, using a "correspondence audit". She said
that at the IRS, if it looks like a duck, walks like a duck, and quacks like a duck, it is generally presumed to be a
duck.

   LH




                                                          2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/5/2018 7:56 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                          T Petrovich <femaletrapdoorspidersguild@gmail.com>
Sent:                          Thursday, January 04, 2018 6:48 PM
To:                            Council, City
Subject:                       Heritage trees
Attachments:                   20180104_123632_Film1.jpg; 20180104_121544_Film1.jpg; tree_tree1_Archive.pdf



2011 Stirling court
1103 Carlton ave




                                                       1
The   El Palo Alto Redwood Archives
           Circa 1864
The   El Palo Alto Redwood Archives
          Circa 1883
The   El Palo Alto Redwood Archives
         Circa late 1880’s
         The   El Palo Alto Redwood Archives
                       Circa ?
Young girl near tree roots in San Fransisquito Creek
The   El Palo Alto Redwood Archives
         Circa late 1880’s
The   El Palo Alto Redwood Archives
        Circa early 1890’s
The   El Palo Alto Redwood Archives
         Circa early 1900
The   El Palo Alto Redwood Archives
         Circa early 1900
      Wood & concrete buttress
The   El Palo Alto Redwood Archives
         Circa early 1900
      Wood & concrete buttress
The   El Palo Alto Redwood Archives
         Circa early 1900’s
      Overlaid concrete buttress
The   El Palo Alto Redwood Archives
            Circa ?
The   El Palo Alto Redwood Archives
           Circa 1951
The   El Palo Alto Redwood Archives
            Circa ?
The   El Palo Alto Redwood Archives
         Circa late 1950’s
      The   El Palo Alto Redwood Archives
Circa 1960’s (note: high climber at top of tree)
The   El Palo Alto Redwood Archives
       Circa ? Looking east
                                       EL PALO ALTO
                                       As it stands today

For centuries, the coast redwood tree has functioned as the primary sentinel and gateway to
this region. The oldest living California Historical Landmark No.2 has been central to the City
of Palo Alto since it’s incorporation in 1894 and Stanford University for over a century. In
1955, an increment boring of the tree rings was taken and the tree's age was accurately
determined to be 1,015 years, and in 2004 was 1,064 years old. The tree stands anchored to the
San Francisquito Creek bank with a trunk size of over eight feet in diameter. In 1951 its height
was 134.6-feet, in 1977 its height was reduced to126-feet to remove the dead top, and again in
1999 where it still stands at nearly 110-feet in height.

From 1865-1955, the tree was in serious decline with alarmingly sparse branching and foliage.
Implicating factors of decline were (1) the foliage was coated with coal-burning train soot
which passed beneath the tree’s canopy on a daily basis and, (2) the increasing reduction of the
aquifer (available water table) from wells in the thriving orchards of the ‘blossom valley’,
including the 1912 Tower Well only two blocks away. It is surmised that by 1955, the
disappearing orchards and county water district program to cap wells helped to recharge the
aquifer in the region back to a level that the El Palo Alto redwood had historically grown
accustomed. In spite of an eroding top, aerial termites and an associated decay column on the
west side of the top (left side), the tree today has a much greater volume of foliage and biomass
and is healthier today than nearly a century ago.

Excepting a catastrophic disaster, the life expectancy and prognosis for the El Palo Alto
redwood is that it will continue to overlook the region for at least 300 more years.
The   El Palo Alto Redwood Archives
       Circa ? Looking west
            The   El Palo Alto Redwood Archives
                         Circa 1998




A piece of the top was cut off the El Palo Alto redwood at the
110-foot height Cursory dendrology count was 157 rings.
Termites and decay are evident around the perimeter.
The   El Palo Alto Redwood Archives
      Circa November 14, 2001
The   El Palo Alto Redwood Archives
    Circa: November 14, 2001
helicopter photo by Dave Dockter
                             ON SOLID GROUND
 for centuries, the tree roots have established themselves firmly into the soil
 and deflected creek bank erosion where it otherwise would be washed
 away. the massive tree used to have a second spar located on the left side of
 the trunk. wound-wood has callused over the missing trunk and sprouts are
 now growing in the area.




                                          in 1987, the national arborist
                                          association recognized the tree and
                                          international society of
                                          Arboriculture for its historical
In 1926 a plaque was mounted on
                                          significance as noted by general
a boulder by the native sons of the
                                          Portola's 1786 expedition. At the
golden west showing El Palo Alto
                                          time of the 1776 signing of our
was once a twin-trunked tree as
                                          national constitution, El Palo Alto
reported by early California
                                          was 836 years old.
explorers and inhabitants.
The   El Palo Alto Redwood Archives
                   Circa ?




  Reverse photo--Dirt road into and out of the
  creek at Old Middlefield Road on the Palo
  Alto side. San Francisquito Creek separates
  Palo Alto, Santa Clara County and Menlo
  Park, San Mateo County.
The   El Palo Alto Redwood Archives
      Circa 1907--Pope Street, Palo Alto




  Bridge over San Francisquito Creek
The   El Palo Alto Redwood Archives
                Circa ?




                          Bridges over
                          San Francisquito Creek
The   El Palo Alto Redwood Archives
                  Circa ?




          Bridges over
          San Francisquito Creek
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 1:34 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Frayda Glass <fglass1@gmail.com>
Sent:                         Wednesday, January 10, 2018 11:20 AM
To:                           Council, City; Gitelman, Hillary; Kamhi, Philip
Subject:                      January 10, 2018 Meeting Southgate RPP



This is the fourth time I've said this, please hear me.


Frayda Glass, Southgate·23h ago
I can not attend the meeting. I live on Madrono Ave. right off
of Churchill. This block is where all trucks seem to enter
Southgate, and where extra drivers living in apartments (not
individual houses) want to park. Some streets have more traffic
and parked cars than other streets in Southgate.

The RPP for Southgate was supposed to alleviate parking
congestion in our neighborhood. I didn't think we'd become
involved in an argument with nearby businesses wanting to
provide parking for their employees. Our streets are too narrow
overall for the businesses that must come into our
neighborhood to provide services for the neighborhood.




                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 1:34 PM




                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/5/2018 7:53 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                               bill wallau <lovethyref@aol.com>
Sent:                               Wednesday, January 03, 2018 7:51 PM
To:                                 Council, City
Cc:                                 bill wallau
Subject:                            Lack of proper lighting at Mayfield Soccer fields (North & South)


Good People:
I am a referee that participates in games that start after dark on the two fields in question. Over half the flood lights are
out on the north field as well as one pointing directly in the eyes of the players and the referee. On the south field there
also are a number of lights that are not functioning.
Please! For the safety of the players, have this problem resolved as promptly as possible. It is extremely dangerous and
could well end up in a litigation against the City of Palo Alto if not rectified.
This request has fallen on deaf ears thus far and has been an ongoing problem for over four months.
Thank you for your kind attention in this matter.
Charles “Bill” Wallau
lovethyref@aol.com
650‐329‐0339

Sent from Mail for Windows 10




                                                              1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 10:07 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           clarice nolet <cnolet8@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Tuesday, January 09, 2018 4:12 PM
To:                             Council, City; Howard, Adam
Cc:                             Debby Ruskin; jennie chan; laura Roberts
Subject:                        Mitchell Park tennis courts



Hello,

As a member of the Palo Alto Tennis Club and tennis player who utilizes Mitchell Park courts on a regular
basis, I would be very upset at losing the number of lit tennis courts. We always have full courts and many
people waiting. I urge you to find another solution for Pickleball. I know it is growing in popularity, but please
don’t add courts at the expense of the tennis players, please seek to find another solution that allows both groups
to thrive.

Best,

Clari Nolet
cnolet8@gmail.com
650-224-4591




                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 10:08 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                               cjapic@gmail.com
Sent:                               Tuesday, January 09, 2018 7:22 PM
To:                                 Council, City
Subject:                            Parking Program in Southgate


Greetings Palo Alto City Council: I understand that you are discussing changes to the Southgate parking program
tomorrow. I’d like to ask that you not give any more permits to area businesses to park in Southgate. I am directly
impacted as my house is on El Camino Real and I often can’t find parking for my own car due to all of the employees
parking in front of my house.

Thank you for your consideration.

Best,
Caroline Japic
1655 El Camino Real
650‐619‐4162

Sent from my iPhone




                                                            1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 10:09 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Nancy Shepherd <nlshep@pacbell.net>
Sent:                              Wednesday, January 10, 2018 8:56 AM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           Prop 13 correction ballot initiative 2018
Attachments:                       17-0055 (Funding for Schools and Communities).pdf; CA SCHOOLS AND LOCAL
                                   COMM Policy Brief_v1 (1) (2).pdf


Dear Mayor Kniss, Vice Mayor Filseth and Council Members,

Happy New Years, I enjoyed attending the reorganization meeting on Monday night. Congratulations to Mayor Kniss and
Vice Mayor Filseth.

At this meeting there was some angst related to property tax collections and how it supports city services—the 1978 Prop
13 initiative has not kept up with municipal, school or county budgets for the modern era. Hopefully, this can change in
November 2018.

I am reaching out to Palo Alto and other communities as an advisory board member to Evolve California, a key coalition
partner to the The California Schools and Local Communities Funding Act of 2018. This Act is a constitutional
amendment that requires a simple majority vote to change the method of assessment for commercial and industrial
property—often coined “dual rolls”. Residential and agricultural property will not be changed. The initiative targets the
corporate tax loophole and is explained in the attached materials: summary brief and ballot language as submitted.

Once the Attorney General completes the impartial analysis and assigns a proposition number, volunteers will be
collecting signatures for the November ballot.

It is my hope that Palo Alto will become an early endorser of this initiative. Therefore, I would like to meet with each of
you soon to learn of your interest and answer questions. This is a historic moment in the State of California, the correction
will generate over $11 billion in new tax revenue annually, and over $1 billion for Santa Clara County.

Please let me know when I can meet with each of you.

Nancy Shepherd
Advisory Board Member
Evolve California.




Sent from my iPad




                                                              1
                                                                                               Winter 2017
  THE CALIFORNIA SCHOOLS
  AND LOCAL COMMUNITIES
    FUNDING ACT OF 2018


How to Raise Billions for Schools and Services
by Reforming the Commercial Property Tax System
Policy Brief
Summary                                          I. The Problem
The California Schools and Local Communities     The system for assessment of commercial and industrial
Funding Act of 2018 proposes a constitutional    property is loophole-ridden, harmful to sound land use,
                                                 housing, and new investment, and negatively impacts
amendment to put before voters an
                                                 revenue for cities, counties, and schools. Not even the
improvement to the 1978 law, Proposition         largest beneficiaries of the system—wealthy property
13. It will periodically reassess commercial     owners and large corporations—can provide a rationale
and industrial properties to full market         for its continuation.

value, while safeguarding homeowners,            A. The Loophole-Ridden System
renters and agricultural land. It will provide   Property tax assessment under Proposition 13 is based
tax relief to small businesses and full          on a “change of ownership”, which locks in assessment
transparency for the public. It will raise       at the purchase price (plus 2% per year), and limits
                                                 the tax rate for all properties to 1%. Intended to help
approximately $11.4 billion in statewide         homeowners, change of ownership is easily avoided
revenues from reassessment for 2019-             by corporations and wealthy investors because of
2020, if fully implemented. A large share        the complex ways commercial and industrial property
of the new revenues, or over $4.5 billion,       is legally held, and cannot be reformed without
                                                 maintaining loopholes and inequities.
will support K-12 schools and community
colleges, with the balance allocated             1. Publicly-Traded Corporations: Change of ownership
to local government (cities, counties,           fails to reassess publicly-traded corporations, whose
special districts).                              stock turns over regularly, unless those companies are
                                                 fully bought out. For example, Chevron, Intel and IBM
                                                 own land still assessed at 1975 values while nearby land
                                                 is assessed at 50 times the value or more.

                                                 2. Investor-owned Property: Complex ownership patterns
                                                 allow for avoidance of reassessment in many ways, on
                                                 everything from industrial parks, offices, shopping centers
                                                 and hotels to parking lots and mini-malls. Real Estate
                                                 Investment Trusts (REITs) allow Wall Street investors to buy
                                                 and sell shares in large properties without reassessment.
                                                 Limited liability companies (LLC’s) and partnerships have
                                                 changing ownership shares and members but easily
                                                 avoid reassessment. Family trusts have passed down
                                                 ownership of valuable land for generations, protecting low
                                                 assessments for the last 40 years and indefinitely into


The California Schools and Local Communities Funding Act of 2018					                                  page 1
the future. Land leases are often used to keep land taxes
low even when new construction occurs.
                                                                                 II. The Policy Solution
B. Unfair to New Investment                                                      This policy proposal will require a constitutional
The current system taxes new investment heavily while                            amendment to be approved by California voters in order
failing to tax windfalls, the opposite of good economics.                        to reform the system for assessment of commercial and
It holds land off the market, inflating land prices, which                       industrial property.
is bad for housing affordability and new investment.
                                                                                 A. Reassessment
It is anti-competitive, as new businesses have to pay
                                                                                 The core component of this proposal is the reassessment
higher property taxes than their competitors, even
                                                                                 of commercial and industrial property to market value on
though they are charging the same prices for their rents,
                                                                                 a periodic basis, as occurs nearly everywhere else in the
products and/or services. Newer investors pay taxes
                                                                                 country. The current constitutionally mandated rate of
on inflated market values and substantial fees and
                                                                                 1% would remain unchanged.
mitigations, while older commercial property owners
who benefit from infrastructure growth and rising markets
                                                                                 B. Protecting Residential and Agricultural Property
continue to pay on the old, outdated property values.
                                                                                 Periodic reassessment will only affect commercial and
                                                                                 industrial property, NOT residential and agricultural
C. Failed Fiscal Policy
                                                                                 property. The measure defines such property through
Even with massive economic growth and a proliferation
                                                                                 zoning categories in order to establish a “bright line”.
of new local taxes, tax revenue per capita for cities and
                                                                                 Properties zoned for agricultural purposes have long
counties has fallen from $790 per person to $640 since
                                                                                 been protected by the Williamson Act, and are not
1978, according to the Legislative Analyst’s Office (LAO),
                                                                                 to be reassessed. No residential properties will be
generating fiscal stress on most local governments
                                                                                 reassessed, whether rental residential (apartments and
in the state. The property tax has shifted away from
                                                                                 rental homes), homeowner or condominium owner, or
commercial/industrial to residential in virtually every
                                                                                 mobile home. To the extent that zoning categories are
county. Our infrastructure investment has declined
                                                                                 not sufficiently tight (e.g. residential hotels, nursing
because local governments cannot generate the
                                                                                 homes), the legislature is required to make certain
revenue needed from the growth in land values.
                                                                                 by statute than no residential property will ever be
D. Works Against “Smart Growth” Land Use                                         affected. Mixed-use property is to be assessed based
The system has negative impacts on land use and the                              on proportion of commercial to residential footage.
environment. The LAO and academic research shows
                                                                                 C. Phasing In the New System
that the system promotes keeping urban land vacant.
                                                                                 Since the system has not been changed in 40 years,
It increases speculation and sprawl, the opposite of
                                                                                 a transition period will be necessary.
“Smart Growth”. It drives up land prices that make
                                                                                 1. Assessor Provisions: The measure requires the
housing less affordable. Important approaches to
                                                                                 legislature to provide for a “start-up” period, not less
climate change and livability—increased density and
                                                                                 than two years, plus one year of lead time, to ensure
transit—are discouraged by the current failure to tax
                                                                                 a reasonable workload and implementation period for
commercial land appropriately.



Decline in Cities/Counties                                              $1,000
Per Person Revenues,                                                     $900
1977 to 2014                                                             $800         $790
                                                $ REVENUES PER PERSON




                                                                                                    $150
                                                                         $700                       difference      $640
                                                                         $600

                                                                         $500

                                                                         $400

                                                                         $300

Legislative Analyst’s Office. September 2016.                            $200
Common Claims about Proposition 13.
http://lao.ca.gov/reports/2016/3497/                                     $100
common-claims-prop13-091916.pdf.                                                     1977-78                       2014-15

The California Schools and Local Communities Funding Act of 2018					                                                                page 2
ment and taxation of property in California. It restricts both the tax rate and the annual increase of assessed
value as follows:
• The property tax cannot exceed 1 percent of a property’s taxable value (plus service fees, improvement
   bonds and     special
           assessors.        assessments,
                         It then             many of
                                 requires on-going       which require
                                                      assessment  on       voter  approval).
                                                                              2. Small  Owner-Operators: A very small number of
• A property’s original base value is its 1975-76 market value. A new base
           a periodic   basis,  but no more   than  every three years,        smaller  businesses  own year    value is established
                                                                                                         their properties  and also run by
           after initial reassessment is completed. There are many            their businesses on it, most often in rural areas (e.g.
   reappraisal   whenever there is a change in owner-
           ways for the assessors to approach this work. For                  motels, independent gas stations). Those businesses,
   ship orexample,
             new construction.
   assessedproperties
                                          Anproperties
                       assessing the oldest
              value offirstreal   property
                                                increase andin the                   SinglevalueFamily
                                                                thelargest with property                         Homes
                                                                                                    under $2 million,   will be exempt
                               would  generateissubstantial
                                                  limited revenue
                                                             to no            from   reassessment  until  they sell or no
                                                                               Average Assessed Value vs. Average “Sale”  longer run their
                                                                                                                              Value
   more than
           whiletwo    percent
                  allowing         perproperties
                              smaller   year. to be phased-in over            businesses on their property
• The adjusted        (factored)
           a longer period.           base year
                                The timing  is to bevalue  of out
                                                      worked   realby the
   property   is the upper
           legislature,          limit ofwith
                          in consultation   value    for property $1,245,657
                                                the assessors.                E. Revenue Allocation
   tax purposes.                                                              1. Local Government Share of Revenue: The proposal
           2. Taxpayer Phase-In: The phase-in process is also to be           calls for revenue in each county to be allocated based
• Business personal property, boats, airplanes and $1,000,000
           developed by the legislature. One possibility is a 3-year          on the current proportions of the property tax which
   certain phase-in
            restricted     properties    are  subject   to annual
                      for the first properties to be reassessed, to       $900,000
                                                                              go to the cities, counties, schools, and special districts.
   reappraisal
           ease and
                 in anyassessment.
                          increases in taxes, and 2-years for the more        Except for the schools, the local jurisdictions in each
          recent properties. The legislature will determine the        $800,000
                                                                           county will receive the new revenue based on the share
During a recession
          appropriatethe    gap between
                        phase-in  period, butthenot
                                                 market    value
                                                    less than two years.   of the local property tax they currently receive. The
and assessed value of single family homes declines.                    $700,000
                                                                           measure leaves property tax allocation unchanged,
However as the as the economy recovers, the gap
          D.  Small  Business   Protections                                because a combination of Proposition 13, (which puts
                                                                       $600,000
widens.   1. Business  Personal  Property  Tax  Relief: The measure        property tax allocation in the hands of the legislature),
          provides relief from the business personal property              and a subsequent constitutional measure (Prop 1A)
                                                                       $500,000
          tax, eliminating it for all small businesses under 50            control allocation.
    ...428,258 properties received
          employees and providing an exemption of the first
          $500,000 for all other businesses. This exemption
                                                                       $400,000
                                                                           2. School Share of Revenue: Because of the potentially
          helps the vast majority of businesses that lease but         $300,000
                                                                           great fiscal differences among school districts in richer
         the CCPI increase of
          do not own their property. It will take over 90% of              vs. poorer areas, the school revenue generated in each
          businesses off the business personal property tax            $200,000
                                                                           county from the share of the property tax in each school
     1.525 percent in accordance
          rolls, and provides relief from a nuisance tax as well           district will be pooled statewide and protected for use
                                                                       $100,000
          as financial relief to small businesses.                         solely by K-14 education. This incremental revenue will
         with Proposition 13...                                            be over
                                                                               0 and above Prop. 98 formulas, so will not lower
                                                                                   1978 support
                                                                                         1985 1990for1995  1999 2003 2006 address
                                                                                                                            2009 2014equity,
                                                                                                                                      2015
                                                                           any state                  schools.  To further
                                                                            Average   Assessed Value
                                                                           it will be distributed based on the current Local Control
                                                                            Annual Average
                                                                           Funding     Formula“Sale”
                                                                                                or anyValue           (Source MLS)
                                                                                                          successor formula   provided
                                                                           by statute.

            Historical Trend of Assessed Values in Santa Clara County
The chartProperty
           compares  Tax theShift
                              total net                                          Historic Trend of Assessed Values in Santa Clara County
          in 55 ofof58 single
assessed value          Countiesfamily
                                              Percent of Total Assessed Value




                                                                                70%
and condominium properties to
                                                                                65%
other property, including com-                                                  60%
mercial       and           industrial                                          55%
properties. Since Proposition 13                                                50%
passed in 1978, the portion of                                                  45%
 he secured assessment roll com-                                                40%
prised of commercial and indus-                                                 35%

 rial properties declined 15                                                    30%
                                                                                      1977-78   1985-86 1990-91 1995-96    2000-01 2005-06    2010-11 2011-12 2012-13   2013-14   2015-16 2016-17
percent, a trend consistent with                                                                     Residential (Single Family and Condominiums)           All Other Property
data from other counties.
                                            Office of the County Assessor. September 2016. 2016-2017 Assessor’s Annual Report. https://www.sccassessor.org/
16 www.sccassessor.org                      edocman/AnnualReport2016_2017.pdf                                                                                 Published September 2016

            The California Schools and Local Communities Funding Act of 2018					                                                                                                            page 3
F. Revenue Reimbursements
The state General Fund will be reimbursed against
                                                                             III. Impacts
any losses resulting from an increase in commercial
                                                                    A. Projected Revenue
property tax deductions caused by reassessment, with
                                                                    1. Statewide Revenue: Statewide revenue from
the Franchise Tax Board to provide an estimate yearly.
                                                                    reassessment is estimated at $11.4 billion annually, or
Assessors will be reimbursed from the new revenue for
                                                                    between $10.8 and $12 billion statewide if it were to be
any increased costs of implementation. Revenue will be
                                                                    fully implemented in 2019-2020. This is higher than the
allocated to the newly-created school fund and to local
                                                                    previously estimated $8-10 billion and is based on over
districts after these reimbursements, which are a very
                                                                    10 years of complete statewide commercial property
small percentage of total revenue.
                                                                    data sets running from 2004-2016. This amount will
                                                                    grow with economic growth. The reform will generate
G. Accountability to Taxpayers
                                                                    $3.6 billion in Los Angeles County, $1 billion each
All school districts and local governments receiving
                                                                    in Santa Clara and Orange Counties, and produce
revenue from the measure will be required to prepare
                        UpdatedtoResults:                           substantialGains
                                                                                   increases for all counties.
reports to provide accountability       taxpayersEstimated
                                                  for             Revenue
the use of the incremental revenue from collections.
                                                                    2. Schools: Schools will see over $4.5 billion in increased
The legislature shall develop a consistent method to
                        We find that re-assessing commercial / industrial
                                                                    revenue property
                                                                                yearly.atThis
                                                                                          market    value would
                                                                                                translates       generate an
                                                                                                            into between       estimated
                                                                                                                            $15,000-
calculate the incremental revenues received.
                        $11.4 billion, or between $10.8 and $12.0$20,000
                                                                     billion, inper
                                                                                 additional
                                                                                     classroomproperty
                                                                                                   whentax  revenues
                                                                                                         fully        statewide Every
                                                                                                               implemented.      in 2019.
                        While every county would gain additional revenue,      the counties
                                                                    school district            that would
                                                                                       will receive        see therevenue,
                                                                                                      increased    greatest based
                                                                                                                             gains on
                                                                    the Local
                        include: Los Angeles ($3.6 billion), Orange and          Control
                                                                          Santa Clara      Funding
                                                                                       ($1.1           Formula
                                                                                              billion each), San applied  statewide.
                                                                                                                 Diego ($848   million),
                                                                    All  revenue    will be  in  addition to  and  on  top of
                        and San Francisco ($836 million). See Table 2 for the estimated range and mid-point of total revenue  current
                        gain for each county.                       revenue guaranteed by Proposition 98.


                          Table 2. Estimated Revenue Gains by County, 2019
                           Estimated Revenue Gains by County, 2019 (millions)


Estimated                  County
                            COUNTY               Estimate Range
                                               ESTIMATED  RANGE       Mid Estimate
                                                                      MID-ESTIMATE            County
                                                                                              COUNTY             Estimate RANGE
                                                                                                              ESTIMATED     Range         Mid Estimate
                                                                                                                                         MID-ESTIMATE
                           ALAMEDA                 523.9 - 583.9           553.4              PLACER                58.3 - 66.5                 62.4
Revenue Gains              ALPINE                     .2 - .2                0.2              PLUMAS                 3.8 - 4.3                   4.1
by County                  AMADOR                    2.4 - 2.9               2.7              RIVERSIDE            314.6 - 356.7               335.3
                           BUTTE                    15.0 - 17.5             16.3              SACRAMENTO           134.2 - 155.5               144.7
2019-2020                  CALAVERAS                 2.3 - 2.7               2.5              SAN BENITO             5.8 - 6.5                   6.2
                           COLUSA                    4.0 - 4.4               4.2              SAN BERNARDINO       387.5 - 438.2               412.4
                           CONTRA COSTA            329.5 - 366.7           347.8              SAN DIEGO            800.1 - 898.4               848.4
                           DEL NORTE                 1.4 - 1.6               1.5              SAN FRANCISCO        795.4 - 877.7               835.9
                           EL DORADO                16.1 - 18.4             17.2              SAN JOAQUIN           84.0 - 96.1                 90.0
                           FRESNO                  106.7 - 120.4           113.4              SAN LUIS OBISPO       54.8 - 61.8                 58.2
                           GLENN                     3.2 - 3.5               3.3              SAN MATEO            559.5 - 615.7               587.2
                           HUMBOLDT                 20.8 - 23.2             22.0              SANTA BARBARA        122.7 - 137.4               129.9
                           IMPERIAL                 14.4 - 16.3             15.3              SANTA CLARA       1,011.4 - 1,121.3            1,065.5
                           INYO                      6.8 - 7.9               7.3              SANTA CRUZ            43.5 - 48.7                 46.1
                           KERN                    105.4 - 119.1           112.1              SHASTA                18.6 - 21.3                 19.9
                           KINGS                    15.6 - 17.6             16.6              SIERRA                  .1 - .1                    0.1
                           LAKE                      1.7 - 2.1               1.9              SISKIYOU               4.5 - 5.2                   4.9
                           LASSEN                    1.3 - 1.5               1.4              SOLANO                57.6 - 66.2                 61.8
                           LOS ANGELES           3,443.8 - 3,826.9       3,632.2              SONOMA               109.0 - 122.0               115.4
                           MADERA                   10.4 - 12.1             11.2              STANISLAUS            43.6 - 50.2                 46.8
                           MARIN                    67.1 - 75.1             71.0              SUTTER                13.3 - 15.0                 14.1
                           MARIPOSA                  1.9 - 2.2               2.1              TEHAMA                 6.3 - 7.0                   6.6
                           MENDOCINO                25.8 - 29.0             27.4              TRINITY                1.4 - 1.6                   1.5
                           MERCED                   29.5 - 33.2             31.4              TULARE                30.1 - 35.2                 32.6
                           MODOC                      .3 - .4                0.4              TUOLUMNE               5.6 - 6.4                   6.0
                           MONO                      2.0 - 2.5               2.2              VENTURA              163.0 - 183.2               172.9
                           MONTEREY                 61.9 - 70.6             66.2              YOLO                  25.2 - 29.2                 27.1
                           NAPA                     62.9 - 70.7             66.7              YUBA                   7.1 - 7.9                   7.5
                           NEVADA                   15.8 - 17.8             16.8              Total            10,778.8 - 12,031.3          11,394.7
                          Program for Environmental and Regional Equity, University of Southern California Dornsife. May 2015. Getting Real About Reform:
                          Estimating Revenue Gains from Changes to California’s System of Assessing Commercial Real Estate. http://dornsife.usc.edu/pere/
                          getting-real-about-reform/. Revenue estimates updated in June 2017.



The California Schools and Local Communities Funding Act of 2018					                                                                              page 4
3. Local Government: Cities, counties, and special                   which are improved are currently reassessed while land
districts will receive over $6 billion in increased revenues.        may still be held at very old values. The differences in
Like all property taxes, revenues will be spent at local             building values are nowhere near the disparities in land
government discretion, for parks, libraries, public safety,          values, which can be as high as 100 to 1 in places where
capital outlay, health and social services, etc.                     values have grown rapidly, such as Silicon Valley, San
                                                                     Francisco, and west Los Angeles.
B. Who Pays?
1. Highest-Value Properties Pay the Most: The highest-               5. Out of State Investors: Substantial amounts of the
value properties provide most of the revenue. 77% of                 new tax revenue will be paid by out-of-state and foreign
the revenue comes from a small share of properties—                  investors and the very wealthy. Large properties are
that is, from properties estimated worth over $5 million,            often owned by Real Estate Investment Trusts and are
or 8% of commercial and industrial properties. These                 publicly-traded on national and international exchanges,
are mostly corporate-owned and wealthy investor-owned                and foreign investors have seen California commercial
and have the lowest current assessment compared to                   property as a safe long-term investment. Corporate
market value. In contrast, nearly 75% of properties are              shareholders are widely distributed nationally and
worth under $1 million and generate only 5% of the                   internationally and would pay much of the property tax.
total revenue.                                                       Owners of commercial property are far wealthier than
                                                                     most citizens, generally within the top 1% of earners.
2. Many Properties See Little Change: Many properties
will see little or no impact. 46% of all commercial/                 C. Broader Benefits and Impacts
industrial properties are within 30% of market value,                1. Relief from Fees and Local Tax Pressures: Increasing
with many of those close to or at market, and will pay               revenue from commercial property taxes eliminates
little or no additional taxes as the measure phases in.              pressures for additional local taxes and fees, which have
                                                                     grown considerably as a portion of local government
3. Oldest Properties Pay: Over 56% of the revenue                    expenses. Over time, citizens and businesses have
comes from properties which were last reassessed                     borne many of these new taxes and fees because large
before 2000. These include large corporate and                       property owners have paid so little.
investor-owned properties, many of which have not
been reassessed since the 1970s and 1980s.                           2. Infrastructure Benefits: Because rising land values
                                                                     will be captured, the ability to finance infrastructure is
4. Most Value in Land, Not Buildings: Sixty percent of               greatly improved, particularly for transit, where new
the revenue comes from the reassessment of land as                   investments can recover costs from rising land values.
compared to buildings and improvements. Buildings




Share of Total Number                        % of Total Commercial/Industrial Properties
of Commercial/Industrial                     % of Statewide Revenue Gain

Properties and Share                                                                                                             77%

of Statewide Revenue
Gain by Estimated
Market Value, 2019                         54%




                                                                                            14%
                                                          10%              10%                    10%                       8%
                                                                                 3%                          5% 7%
                                                 1%             1%
Source: USC PERE analysis of disparity
ratios of commercial and industrial        Less than     $250,000 to      $500,000 to      $1 million to   $3 million to   Greater than
properties based on CoreLogic assessor     $250,000       $500,000         $1 million       $3 million      $5 million      $5 million
roll data for 2016.



The California Schools and Local Communities Funding Act of 2018					                                                            page 5
       3. “Smart Growth” Benefits: Development which             6. Small Business Benefits: Every small business will
       concentrates urban land use instead of promoting          benefit from the elimination of the business personal
       suburban sprawl and big-box retail will increase as       property tax. Opponents of reform cite the pressures
       underutilized, in-fill properties with high value but     on small business who have leases which would require
       low assessments will be brought onto the market.          pass-through of property taxes as rent increases.
       Smart growth is a necessary part of combating             The fact is that commercial rents are at market and
       climate change.                                           will not increase as a result of reassessment. Since
                                                                 many properties will face little or no increases, many
       4. Regulatory Climate Will Improve for Business:          businesses will have net benefits due to the elimination
                                                     THE
       The regulatory burden of fees and exactions put  on SUPPORTERS
                                                                 of the business personal property tax. A phase-in period
       new economic development will diminish, as cities have    allows small business the ability to adjust, including in
       stronger fiscal incentives for new development and will   their leases.
       be able to finance the costs of economic growth.
                                                     THE SUPPORTERS THE SUPPORTERS
       5. Affordable Housing: Local revenues from
       reassessment will enable cities to meet their local                         THE CALIFORNIA SCHOOLS
       affordable housing obligations and address their
                                      THE                                          AND THE
                                                                                       LOCALSUPPORTERS
                                                                                             COMMUNITIES
             THEproblems.
       homeless   SUPPORTERS  The heavy fee SUPPORTERS
                                            burden on new
       housing development is likely to diminish. And the
                                                                                     FUNDING ACT OF 2018
       land use benefits will improve affordability for all
       types of housing.                                                          phone: 323-735-9515
SUPPORTERS


                                     THE
                                      THESUPPORTERS
                                       THETHE SUPPORTERS
                                           SUPPORTERS
                                            SUPPORTERS
                                          THE SUPPORTERS
                                 THE SUPPORTERS
       The CALIFORNIA
       SCHOOLS AND
       LOCAL COMMUNITIES
       FUNDING ACT OF 2018
       Coalition Steering
       Committee




                                                                            TAKE ACTION NOW: Text DefendCA to 97779 to get involved


                                                                 TAKE ACTION NOW: Text DefendCA to 97779 to get involved
                                                                                               TAKE ACTION NOW: Text DefendCA to 97779 to ge
                                                                         makeitfairca.com    https://www.facebook.com/MakeItFairCA/       https://twitter.com/makeitfair_ca
                                             TAKE
                          TAKE ACTION NOW: Text   ACTION to
                                                DefendCA    97779
                                                         NOW:   Text
                                                                  to DefendCA   to 97779 to get involved
                                                                     get involved


                                                               makeitfairca.com    https://www.facebook.com/MakeItFairCA/      https://twitter.com/makeitfair_ca



                                                                                                               ACTION NOW: Text DefendCA
                                                                                                          TAKEhttps://www.facebook.com/MakeItFairCA/
                                                                                            makeitfairca.com
                                                                                                                                                              t
                                                                                                                                                     https://tw

       The California Schools and Local Communities Funding Act of 2018					                                                                           page 6
   TAKE ACTION NOW:     Text DefendCA
                makeitfairca.com            to   97779 to get
                                            makeitfairca.com         involved
                                                                 https://www.facebook.com/MakeItFairCA/
                                 https://www.facebook.com/MakeItFairCA/     https://twitter.com/makeitfair_ca      https://twitter.com/makeitfair_ca

                                                                                           to 97779 to get involved
                                                            TAKE ACTION NOW: Text DefendCA97779
                                                                                           97779
                                                                           17-0055




December 15, 2017             VIA MESSENGER DELIVERY


Ashley Johansson, Initiative Coordinator
Office of the Attorney General
                                                               RECEIVED
13 00 I Street                                                   DEC 1 5 2017
Sacramento, CA 95814
                                                           INITIATIVE COORDINATOR
Re: Request for Title and Summary                        ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE

Dear Ms. Johansson:

Pursuant to Elections Code section 9001, we are hereby submitting the enclosed
initiative and request that the Attorney General prepare a title and summary.

Also enclosed you will find the full text of the proposal, a check for $2,000, and
the necessary certifications required by sections 9001(b) and 9608 of the
Elections Code.

Please direct all future communications to the attention of:

Anthony Thigpenn, President
California Calls
4801 Exposition Blvd.
Los Angeles, CA 90016

Very truly yours,




Helen Hutchison



Anthony Thigpenn



Benjamin McBride
December 15, 2017             VIA MESSENGER DELIVERY


Ashley Johansson, Initiative Coordinator
Office of the Attorney General
1300 I Street
Sacramento, CA 95814

Re: Request for Title and Summary

Dear Ms. Johansson:

Pursuant to Elections Code section 9001, we are hereby submitting the enclosed
initiative and request that the Attorney General prepare a title and summary.

Also enclosed you will find the full text of the proposal, a check for $2,000, and
the necessary certifications required by sections 9001(b) and 9608 of the
Elections Code.

Please direct all future communications to the attention of:

Anthony Thigpenn, President
California Calls
4801 Exposition Blvd.
Los Angeles, CA 90016

Very truly yours,




Benjamin McBride
December 15, 2017             VIA MESSENGER DELIVERY


Ashley Johansson, Initiative Coordinator
Office of the Attorney General
1300 I Street
Sacramento, CA 95814

Re: Request for Title and Summary

Dear Ms. Johansson:

Pursuant to Elections Code section 9001, we are hereby submitting the enclosed
initiative and request that the Attorney General prepare a title and summary.

Also enclosed you will find the full text of the proposal, a check for $2,000, and
the necessary certifications required by sections 900l(b) and 9608 of the
Elections Code.

Please direct all future communications to the attention of:

Anthony Thigpenn, President
California Calls
4801 Exposition Blvd.
Los Angeles, CA 90016


Very truly yours,



Helen Hutchison



Anthony Thigpenn



Benjamin McBride
                                                                                            17-0055


SECTION 1. Title

      This measure shall be known as "The California Schools and Local Communities
Funding Act of2018."

SEC.2.        Findings

   a) California's public schools, once the envy of the nation, are severely underfunded.
      Restoring funding to create world-class schools that educate the next generation of
      entrepreneurs and the workforce for tomorrow's economy is critical to California's
      future.

   b) California has slid to 41 st in the nation in per pupil spending, putting a severe strain on
      students, families, and teachers of our K-12 schools and community colleges.

   c) California's local governments are also chronically underfunded which has hurt the
      quality of local services including emergency responder services, parks and libraries,
      health clinics and trauma centers, housing construction and homeless services, roads and
      bridges, and local schools and community colleges.

   d) A loophole in California's tax system has been the primary driver of this disinvestment
      by failing to reassess commercial and industrial real property on a regular basis.

   e) A recent study by the University of Southern California has found that commercial and
      industrial property owners avoid over $11 billion in local property taxes.

   f) Closing this loophole would raise billions in new funding for schools, and local city and
      county services to extend library hours, fix roads, expand health access, and re-open fire
      stations each year.

   g) This loophole creates an unequal playing field for new and small businesses in California.
      Thousands of large commercial property owners are paying a small fraction of what
      many other businesses and property owners are paying,

   h) A relatively small number of properties owned by the largest corporations and wealthiest
      investors get most of the benefits from this tax loophole. Almost 80% of this tax
      avoidance comes from only 8% of the properties worth $5 million or more.

   i) The federal tax proposal currently under consideration by Congress provides huge tax
      cuts to the same large corporations and wealthy investors that benefit from California's
      commercial property tax loophole.

   j) Much of the money pocketed through the existing loophole flows to out-of-state and
      foreign shareholders. Reassessing commercial property would ensure that money stays
      here in California.
   k) Recent analysis demonstrates that reassessing commercial and industrial real property
      will have a net positive effect on California's economy, improving competition and
      helping new business and new investment which creates jobs.

   1) Reassessing commercial property is critical to smart and environmentally safe local
      development. The failure to reassess commercial property has encouraged owners to
      keep land parcels vacant, exacerbating the housing crisis and promoting sprawl.

   m) Reassessing commercial property at fair market value will close the loophole and still
      maintain California's property tax rates as among the lowest in the country.

   n) By closing this loophole, California can restore funding to its underfunded schools, invest
      in local communities, level the playing field for business, and stimulate the economy.
      Given the consequences of the proposed federal tax plan, closing this loophole is
      important to California's future.

SEC. 3.        Purpose and Intent.

It is the intent of the people of the State of California to do all of the following in this measure:

   (a) Provide for increased and stable revenues for schools, cities, counties, and local agencies
       by requiring that all commercial and industrial real properties are assessed at their full
       market value.

   (b) Ensure that the portion of any new revenues going to local schools and community
       colleges is treated as new revenues that are in addition to all other funding for schools
       and community colleges, and is allocated in a manner that benefits all schools and
       community colleges consistent with constitutional requirements to advance equity.

    (c) Distribute to cities, counties and special districts any new revenues resulting from the
        implementation of this law in the same manner as other property tax revenues.

    (d) Provide funding for infrastructure through faster payment of current bonded
        indebtedness on the property tax.

    (e) Preserve in every way Proposition 13's protections for homeowners and for rental
        residential properties. This measure only affects the assessment of taxable commercial
        and industrial real property.

    (f) Provide small commercial real property owners owning and operating their business on
        their property an exemption that ensures stability for their business.

    (g) Make no change to existing laws affecting the taxation or preservation of agricultural
        land.
   (h) Assist businesses, whether they own or rent their place of business, by reducing the
       business tangible personal property tax on equipment and fixtures for each business by
       exempting $500,000 of that property from taxation, and by eliminating this tax for small
       businesses with 50 or fewer employees. This would eliminate the tax on equipment and
       fixtures for about 90 percent of all California businesses. The Legislature would be
       prohibited from lowering this exemption but would be authorized to increase it.
   (i) Require the Legislature to provide for the phase-in of the assessment of under assessed
       commercial and industrial real properties to give county assessors time to effectively
       implement the new law.

    G) Require the Legislature to provide owners of under assessed commercial and industrial
       real properties time to meet their obligations under the law by phasing in assessment
       increases resulting from the initial implementation of this law.

    (k) Make sure schools, community colleges, counties, cities and counties, cities, and special
        districts are appropriately spending any new revenues they receive from this measure by
        requiring that new revenues and their expenditure be publicly disclosed.

    (1) Ensure that the General Fund and other funds of the State are held harmless by
        reimbursing the State for reductions in personal income tax and corporation tax revenue
        caused by the deductibility of the property tax.

SEC. 4.        Section 8.7 of Article XVI of the California Constitution is added to read:

 SEC. 8.7. (a) The Local School and Community College Property Tax Fund is hereby created in
 the State Treasury, to be held in trust, and is ·continuously appropriated for the support of school
 districts, schools operated by county offices of education, and community college districts. The
 moneys deposited in the Local School and Community College Property Tax Fund shall be held
.in this trust for schools, and shall be distributed pursuant to the local control funding formula and
 other distribution formulas for community college districts and county offices of education as
 these formulas were operative on January 1, 2018, or pursuant to any subsequent modification of
 the formula that provides for funding, as provided by statute, for school districts, schools
 operated by county offices of education, and community. college districts.

(b)     Notwithstanding any other law, the moneys deposited in the Local School and
Community College Property Tax Fund shall not be subject to appropriation, reversion, or
transfer by the Legislature, the Governor, the Director of Finance, or the Controller for any
purpose other than those specified in this section, nor shall these revenues be loaned to the
General Fund or any other fund of the State or any local government fund.

(c)      Moneys allocated to school districts, county offices of education, and community college
districts from the Local School and Community College Property Tax Fund shall supplement,
and shall not replace, other funding for education. Funds deposited into the Local School and
Community College Property Tax Fund and allocated from the Local School and Community
College Property Tax Fund shall not be part of total allocations to school districts .and
community college districts from General Fund proceeds of taxes appropriated pursuant to
Article XIII Band allocated local proceeds of taxes for purposes of paragraphs (2) and (3) of
subdivision (b) of Section 8 or for purposes of Section 21. Revenues generated by Section 2.5 of
Article XIII A shall not be deemed to be General Fund revenues which may be appropriated
pursuant to Article XIII B for purposes of paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) of Section 8, nor shall
they be considered in the determination of per capita General Fund revenues for purposes of
subdivisions (b) and (e) of Section 8.

(d) Revenues generated by Section 2.5 of Article XIII A shall not be deemed to be General Fund
proceeds of taxes that may be appropriated pursuant to Article XIII B for purposes of Section 20
or Section 21.

SEC. 5.        Section 8.6 of Article XVI of the California Constitution is added to read:


SEC. 8.6. (a) The county auditor shall annually determine the additional revenue in the county
resulting from the application of Section 2.5 of Article XIII A. The Legislature shall by statute
prescribe the methodology to calculate the additional revenues. For an initial period following
the operation of Section 2.5 of Article XIII A, the duration of which shall be determined by the
Legislature, the additional revenues resulting from the application of Section 2.5 of Article XIII
A for. each fiscal year in each county shall be calculated by comparing total property tax
revenues resulting from the application of Section 2.5 of Article XIII A, less amounts transferred
pursuant to subdivision (c) and (d) of this section, to the total amount of property tax revenues
that would have resulted for that fiscal year if Section 2.5 of Article XIII A had not been
operative. For purposes of calculating the additional revenues for each county for fiscal years
following the initial period, the average ratio of the amount of additional revenues resulting from
the application of Section 2.5 of Article XIII A compared to the total amount of property tax
revenues that would have resulted for that fiscal year if Section 2.5 had not been operative for all
fiscal years over the initial period during which Section 2.5 of Article XIII A is fully
implemented shall be used.

(b)     After transferring the necessary funds pursuant to subdivisions (c) and (d), the additional
revenue resulting from the application of Section 2.5 of Article XIII A shall be allocated and
transferred as follows:
(1)     First, to the Local School and Community College Property Tax Fund created pursuant to
Section 8.7, in an amount equal to the school and community college share as determined
pursuant to Chapter 6 (commencing with Section 95) of Part 0.5 of Division 1 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, as that chapter read on January 1, 2018.
(2)     Second, among cities, counties and special districts pursuant to Chapter 6 ( commencing
with Section 95) of Part 0.5 of Division 1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, as that chapter read
on January 1, 2018.
(c)     The Franchise Tax Board shall determine the reduction: to the General Fund and any other
affected state fund of revenues derived from the taxes imposed by the Personal Income Tax Law
(Part 10 (commencing with Section 17001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code)
and the Corporation Tax Law (Part 11 (commencing with Section 23001) of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code), as those laws read on January 1, 2018, due to the deduction of any
net increase in property taxes resulting from the implementation of Section 2.5 of Article XIII A
and Section 3 .1 of Article XIII. The amount of reduction as determined by the Franchise Tax
Board shall be transferred to the General Fund and any other affected state fund prior to the
allocation specified in subdivision (b).) The amount transferred pursuant to this subdivision shall
for each fiscal year be apportioned among the counties in proportion to each county's
contribution to the total additional revenue resulting from the application of Section 2.5 of
Article XIII A determined for all counties.

(d)     Each county or city and county shall be annually compensated for the actual direct
administrative costs of implementing Section 2.5 of Article XIII A as identified by the board of
supervisors of the county or city and county consistent with statutes identifying those costs, not
to exceed 3 percent of the revenues that have been collected in that county or city and county as
a result of the implementation of Section 2.5 of Article XIII A. The board of supervisors of the
county or city and county shall identify the annual costs of implementing Section 2.5 of Article
XIII A.


(e)     All local education agencies, community colleges, counties, cities and counties, cities,
and special districts that receive funds from the revenues generated by Section 2.5 of Article XIII
A shall publicly disclose for each fiscal year, including in their annual budgets, the amount of
property tax revenues they received for that fiscal year as the result of Section 2.5 of Article XIII
A and how those revenues were spent. This subdivision shall not apply to funds transferred
pursuant to subdivision (c) of this section.
                                     .                                                       .
SEC. 6.        Section 2.5 of Article XIII A of the California Constitution is added to read:

SEC. 2.5. (a) (1) Notwithstanding Section 2, for the lien date for the 2020-21 fiscal year and
each lien date thereafter, the "full cash value" of commercial and industrial real property that is
not zoned for commercial agricultural production or otherwise exempt under the Constitution is
the fair market value of that property as of that date, except as provided by the Legislature
pursuant to subdivision (b).
(2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to residential property as defined in this section, whether it is
occupied by a homeowner or a renter. Residential property as defined in this section shall be
assessed as required by Section 2 of this Article. Paragraph (1) shall also not apply to real
property used for commercial agricultural production as defined in this section. Real property
used for commercial agricultural production as defined in this section shall be assessed as
required by Section 2 of this Article.
(b)     The Legislature shall provide by statute for the phase-in of the reassessment of
commercial and industrial real property as required by paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) over two
or more lien dates commencing with the lien date in 2020, in order to ensure a reasonable
workload and implementation period for county assessors and taxpayers. After the phase-in of
the reassessment of commercial and industrial real property, the Legislature shall provide for
periodic reassessment of commercial and industrial real property. Such reassessments shall
occur no less frequently than every three years.

(c)     For purposes of this section:
(1)     "Commercial and industrial real property" means any real property that is zoned as
commercial or as industrial property, or is vacant land not zoned for residential use or used for
commercial agricultural production.
(2)     "Mixed-use real property" means real property on which both residential and commercial
or industrial uses are permitted.
(3)     "Real property used for commercial agricultural production" means land that is zoned for
producing commercial agricultural commodities.
(4)(A) "Residential property" shall include property zoned as residential property, including both
single-family and multiunit structures, and the land on which those structures are constructed or
placed.
(B) The Legislature shall provide by statute for the classification as residential property of
property, zoned as commercial or industrial, that is used as long-term residential property such
that real property that is zoned as commercial or industrial and is also used as long-term
residential property shall be classified as residential property. For mixed-use real property, the
Legislature shall ensure only that portion of the property that is used for commercial and
industrial purposes shall be subject to reassessment as required by this paragraph.

SEC. 7.        Section 3.1 of Article XIII of the California Constitution is added to read:

SEC. 3.1. (a) (1) For e_ach taxpayer paying the tax on tangible personal property used for
business purposes, either of the following shall apply:
(A)      Except for a taxpayer subject to subparagraph (B), an amount ofup to five hundred
thousand dollars ($500,000) of tangible personal property per taxpayer is exempt from taxation.
(B)      (i) For a taxpayer that is a business with 50 or fewer employees, all tangible personal
property used for business purposes is exempt from taxation.
(ii) A taxpayer shall certify to the assessor under penalty of perjury that the condition required by
this subparagraph for exemption has been met and shall be subject to audit by the assessor as to
that certification.
(2)      Fixtures shall be included as tangible personal property subject to this exemption, but
aircraft and vessels shall not be included.
(3)      The Legislature shall not lower the exemption amounts provided by this subdivision or
change their application, but may increase the exemption amount specified in subparagraph (A)
of paragraph (1) consistent with the authority enumerated in Section 2.
(b)     (1) Real property owned by a taxpayer that operates a business or businesses on that real
property shall not be subject to reassessment pursuant to Section 2.5 of Article XIII A if both of
the following conditions are met:
(A)     The business or businesses are operating on a majority of the property.
(B)     The total fair market value of all property owned by the taxpayer in the state on which the
business operates is less than two million dollars ($2,000,000).
(2)     Real property described in paragraph (1) shall be subject to reassessment pursuant to
Section 2.5 of Article XIII A if either of the following occurs:
(A)     The property is sold~
(B)     The business or businesses no longer operate on a majority of the property.
(3)     A taxpayer shall certify to the assessor under penalty of perjury that the conditions
required by this subdivision have been met and shall be subject to audit by the assessor as to that
certification.

SEC. 8.        Section 15 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution is added to read:

SEC. 15. (a) For purposes of this article, proceeds of taxes shall not include the additional
revenues generated by Section 2.5 of Article XIII A.

(b) For purposes of this article, appropriations subject to limitation of each entity of government
shall not include appropriations of the additional revenues collected as a result of the
implementation of Section 2.5 of Article XIII A.


SEC. 9.        Effective Date.

This measure shall become operative on January 1, 2020, except that subdivision (a) of Section
3.1 of Article XIII shall become operative on January 1, 2021.

SEC. 10. Severability

The provisions of this Act are severable. If any portion, section, subdivision, paragraph, clause,
sentence, phrase; word, or application of this Act is for any reason held to be invalid by a
decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, that decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this Act. The People of the State of California hereby declare that they
would have adopted this Act and each and every portion, section, subdivision, paragraph, clause,
sentence, phrase, word, and application not declared invalid or unconstitutional without regard to
whether any portion of this Act or application thereof would be subsequently declared invalid.
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/8/2018 8:39 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Palo Alto Free Press <paloaltofreepress@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Saturday, January 06, 2018 9:54 AM
To:                             Aram James
Cc:                             cbolanos@co.sanmateo.ca.us; gkirby@redwoodcity.org; jcorral@redwoodcity.org;
                                bos@smcgov.org; Council, City; dprice@padailypost.com; rcpd@redwoodcity.org;
                                citycouncil@menlopark.org; pacquilar@redwoodcity.org; jbeiers@smcgov.org;
                                swagstaffe@smcgov.org; myraw@smcba.org; jgreen@dailynewsgroup.com;
                                allison@padailypost.com; RJonsen@menlopark.org; dcbertini@menlopark.org; Watson,
                                Ron; chuckjagoda1@gmail.com; vramirez@redwoodcity.org;
                                timothygray@sbcglobal.net; michael.gennaco@oirgroup.com;
                                stevendlee@alumni.duke.edu; Kilpatrick, Brad; Lee, Craig; Kan, Michael; Perron, Zachary;
                                Stump, Molly
Subject:                        Re: California Public Records Act -Request for the names of the 7 Redwood City Police
                                Officers-and the 1 San Mateo County Sheriff’s Deputy -involved in the Saturday
                                December 30-2017-officer involved shooting/killing of Marco Antonio Carlos—said
                                fatal o...



Please release all personnel photos of all polices officer involved in the stated CPRA request by Attorney Aram
James. Applicable case law:

                                          217 Cal.App.4th 695 (2013)
                                             158 Cal.Rptr.3d 751

                           ARMANDA IBARRA et al., Petitioners,
                                                         v.
     THE SUPERIOR COURT OF LOS ANGELES COUNTY, Respondent;
                       WILLIAM TILLMAN, Real Party in Interest.
                                                  No. B244824.

                      Court of Appeals of California, Second District, Division Three.

                                                  June 27, 2013.


                                                    Thank you,


                                              Mark Petersen-Perez
                                           Editor: Palo Alto Free Press
                                            Ticuantepe, Nicaragua 🇳🇮
                                                 @PAFreePress

                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/8/2018 8:39 AM
Sent from my iPad

On Jan 6, 2018, at 1:09 AM, Aram James <abjpd1@gmail.com> wrote:

       To: San Mateo County Sheriff Carlos Bolanos, Interim Redwood City Police Chief Gary Kirby,
       San Mateo County Counsel John Beiers, Redwood City Attorney Veronica Ramierz et al: ( I am
       requesting that the above city and county officials -execute the ( CPRA) California Public
       Records Act request- in a timely fashion).


       Pursuant to the California Public Records Act -and pursuant to the leading California Supreme
       Court decision -re the appropriateness of releasing the names of police officers/sheriff deputies
       involved in officer involved shooting- Long Beach Police Officers Association v. City of Long
       Beach et al., 59 Cal. 4th 59 (2014):

       I am requesting the release of the names of the 7 Redwood City police officers and the 1 San
       Mateo County Sheriff Deputy- involved in the Saturday December 30, 2017 -officer involved
       shooting/killing -of Marco Antonio Carlos.

       Said officer involved shooting occurred at approximately 2:25 p.m. on the above date-December
       30, 2017-at the Wells Fargo Bank at 1900 Broadway, Redwood City, CA.


       Sincerely-

       Aram B. James
       Citizen Advocate




                                                        2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/8/2018 8:39 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Sam Song Liang <samsliang@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Sunday, January 07, 2018 11:05 AM
To:                             runlongz@yahoo.com
Cc:                             jennie chan; Jason L; Howard, Adam; Council, City; Ricky; 3xjiang@gmail.com; Adam
                                Nelson; Craig Brandle; amitrao10@gmail.com; andytzhou@yahoo.com;
                                d.gmach@gmail.com; danielzcb@gmail.com; dillon.b.yang@gmail.com;
                                gerry.fan@gmail.com; harrywang5300@gmail.com; hgjbworks@yahoo.com; hocken1
                                @sbcglobal.net; jeff.curtiss@gmail.com; julien.klein@gmail.com; laurierng@gmail.com;
                                lysosomes; msmithphd@att.net; pmacadem@gmail.com; qiangc@gmail.com;
                                ryanpcaloca@gmail.com; tkmori@gmail.com; yipgordon@yahoo.com;
                                yjing@yahooo.com; zhouemily6@gmail.com
Subject:                        Re: Mitchell Park plans to designate permanent Pickle Ball courts


Dear City Council members,

  I'm a 20+ year resident in Palo Alto. I got my Ph.D in EE from Stanford, and I founded my two successful
high-tech startups in Palo Alto.

  In addition, I and my children are avid tennis players in Mitchell Park. We have the first hand experience on
the difficulty to get a court because there are so many tennis players to compete for the limited number of tennis
courts there.

  I strongly support Runlong's points to preserve the tennis courts in Mitchell Park.

  I hope the Council should at least do more investigation, and get more input from Palo Alto residents, before
rushing to a decision to make such a big change and spend so much tax-payer money.

  I hope you take these Palo Alto resident's opinions seriously. Thanks,

Sam


Sam
Linkedin


On Sun, Jan 7, 2018 at 12:53 AM, <runlongz@yahoo.com> wrote:
 Dear City Council,

 My name is Runlong Zhou, a proud Palo Alto resident since 2006 as well as a concerned Palo Alto
 resident who refuses to see Palo Alto to become worse in any way.

 First of all, I want to thank you in advance for paying attention to our voice and input. Secondly, I
 want to thank both Jennie Chan and Jason Li for reaching out to city for help, they are not speaking
 for themselves, they are representing thousands of Palo Alto tennis players age from 2-3 years
 young to 80+ years old. I'd like to emphasize and add a few more points regarding this project from
 all PALO ALTO residents perspective.

                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/8/2018 8:39 AM
--- The tennis/handball wall is heavily used by tennis players, handball players, even volleyball
players and soccer players, many people need the wall to exercise when they come alone, warm up,
etc. Even the pickle ball people can probably use the wall area to set up their net and play in case no
court is available.

--- The 2 "sort of pickle ball" courts can easily be lighted by adding 2 light bulbs on the same pole of
court1, just pointing to the opposite side.

--- Per Adam Howard, every other neighbor city has denied the request of building dedicated pickle
ball courts, what is the reason? Shouldn't the cities coordinate among each other to fulfill their own
residents' pickle ball activity needs? Why should Palo Alto city alone build 12 pickle ball courts with
the capacity of hosting 48 players simultaneously? Assuming each player plays pickle ball one hour
a day, from 8:00am-10:00pm, do we have close 600 man hour daily pickle ball activity needs by Palo
Alto residents(Please don't tell me that we have to count in Mountain View residents or San Jose
residents etc., because we don't use our children's lunch budget to host dinner parties for our
friends) .

--- Talking about other cities, Mountain View for example, has the biggest well maintained tennis
center in Cuesta Park. Only Mountain View residents can reserve courts there and is free. For Palo
Alto residents, why do we have to give up Palo Alto tennis courts to Mountain View pickle ball
players and we cannot even go to Mountain View Cuesta Park to play tennis? City council and
officials, what kind of logic is this? Can you give Palo Alto residents a good explanation?

--- Palo Alto Magical Bridge Playground is becoming more and more famous, people living in San
Francisco and Morgan Hill take their kids to Palo Alto Michelle Park to enjoy the playground. We,
PALO ALTO residents, on one hand are proud of our good deed to our extended community, on the
other hand we are suffering and spending longer and longer time looking for parking lot in Michelle
Park during the weekends. Now this project will invite estimated additional 70-100 people to Michelle
Park, is there a chance that majority of PALO ALTO residents will appreciate this project?

--- As parents, we can afford to not host dinner party for our friends and neighbors no matter how
much we enjoy hosting parties, but we cannot afford our children to not have lunch to eat. Taking
away children's lunch budget in order to host dinner party for friends is a sin and cannot be forgiven,
the consequences of this project are not much more forgiven by PALO ALTO residents.

--- What about Palo Alto pickle ball players without this project? We listened to them, we care them,
we help them, we share our tennis courts with them, they never get kicked by tennis players, we are
following the default first come first serve rule, I don't understand why someone wants to break this
harmony by converting tennis courts to pickle ball courts which will exclude tennis activity afterwards.
If sharing palo alto tennis courts for palo alto(not other city) pickle ball activity cannot fulfill the pickle
ball needs, which I totally disagree, then city should consider to build more tennis courts which both
tennis and pickle ball activities can share.

--- To city council and related departments, we, PALO ALTO residents, trust and authorize you to
work for the best benefit of us, is this a project that truly benefits PALO ALTO residents by evaluating
both pros and cons? If the answer is "no", then please cancel it; If the answer is "not sure", then
please make sure first; If the answer is "yes", then you owe the Palo Alto residents an explanation.
Why? Why? Why?


                                                      2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/8/2018 8:39 AM
--- To the fellow Palo Alto residents, Palo Alto is our city, MICHELLE PARK is our park, tennis courts
are our tennis courts. We, Palo Alto residents, want to share the courts with our fellow Palo Alto
residents who play pickle ball. We don't have more than enough tennis courts to be given away
permanently to those pickle ball players from outside PALO ALTO. In fact, there are already too
many pickle ball players from outside Palo Alto using our tennis courts regularly which heavily
impacts our own residents' usage of our own tennis courts. City should do something about it.

--- Finally, I want to hold my confidence that our city officials will use their power and authority along
with their responsibility and mission to serve PALO ALTO residents and always pursue the best
benefit of PALO ALTO. This project does more harm than good to PALO ALTO. If city officials are
interested, I would be happy to provide more details, facts and my first hand experience regarding
tennis and pickle ball activities in Michelle Park.


Runlong Zhou



From: jennie chan <jennietuchan@hotmail.com>
To: Jason L <jli999@gmail.com>; "Adam.howard@cityofpaloalto.org"
<Adam.howard@cityofpaloalto.org>; "city.council@cityofpaloalto.org"
<city.council@cityofpaloalto.org>
Cc: Sam Song Liang <samsliang@gmail.com>; Ricky <khune.rachna@gmail.com>;
"3xjiang@gmail.com" <3xjiang@gmail.com>; Adam Nelson <anelson@pausd.org>; Craig Brandle
<Craig.Brandle@wedbush.com>; "amitrao10@gmail.com" <amitrao10@gmail.com>;
"andytzhou@yahoo.com" <andytzhou@yahoo.com>; "d.gmach@gmail.com"
<d.gmach@gmail.com>; "danielzcb@gmail.com" <danielzcb@gmail.com>;
"dillon.b.yang@gmail.com" <dillon.b.yang@gmail.com>; "gerry.fan@gmail.com"
<gerry.fan@gmail.com>; "harrywang5300@gmail.com" <harrywang5300@gmail.com>;
"hgjbworks@yahoo.com" <hgjbworks@yahoo.com>; "hocken1@sbcglobal.net"
<hocken1@sbcglobal.net>; "jeff.curtiss@gmail.com" <jeff.curtiss@gmail.com>;
"julien.klein@gmail.com" <julien.klein@gmail.com>; "laurierng@gmail.com" <laurierng@gmail.com>;
lysosomes <lysosomes@yahoo.com>; "msmithphd@att.net" <msmithphd@att.net>;
"pmacadem@gmail.com" <pmacadem@gmail.com>; "qiangc@gmail.com" <qiangc@gmail.com>;
"runlongz@yahoo.com" <runlongz@yahoo.com>; "ryanpcaloca@gmail.com"
<ryanpcaloca@gmail.com>; "tkmori@gmail.com" <tkmori@gmail.com>; "yipgordon@yahoo.com"
<yipgordon@yahoo.com>; "yjing@yahooo.com" <yjing@yahooo.com>; "zhouemily6@gmail.com"
<zhouemily6@gmail.com>
Sent: Friday, January 5, 2018 10:45 PM

Subject: Re: Mitchell Park plans to designate permanent Pickle Ball courts

Dear Adam,

Before you feel this change does not impact tennis players at Mitchell Park since the data that was provided
to you suggests that those three courts are not used often by tennis players, please come to Mitchell Park on
a summer night and observe. I frequently play at summer nights at Mitchell Park and even with seven
lighted courts, I often had to wait. If this change takes place, we will be down to only four lighted courts,
wait, in fact, it will be only two lighted courts since the other two courts are used by city coaches for private

                                                       3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/8/2018 8:39 AM
lessons and clinics. Where else can we go for lit courts? Cubberly, no lights. Gunn, no lights. Paly, lights, but
also busy. Rinconada, lights, but also crowded. Thus, in south Palo Alto, we are down to only 2 lighted
courts, and courts on the north side (Paly and Rinconada) are also crowded. Where can we go?! It is going to
be very painful for tennis players to be waiting for a court (for a long time too) at Mitchell Park while
watching the courts over the bridge being available and yet can't play tennis on them. What a waste of
resource!

Since the pickleball community is growing, the best way to serve our community is for the city to either build
new pickleball courts without taking away tennis courts or put lights at Cubberly courts. Please think for our
youth. Where are the children going to play tennis at nights? My kids are older now, one is already out of
school, so this change won't impact them as much. However, as a parent of two tennis players, I feel sorry
for the school age children who play tennis because there will be only 2 lighted courts for them in South Palo
Alto.

Another possible solution would be for the city to convert two courts only, keeping one court as a tennis
court, then build one new tennis court and have lights on the one new court. This way, tennis players only
loose one lighted court and pickleball players gain 8 courts.



Thanks,

Jennie



From: Jason L <jli999@gmail.com>
Sent: Friday, January 5, 2018 9:48 PM
To: jennie chan; Adam.howard@cityofpaloalto.org; city.council@cityofpaloalto.org
Cc: Sam Song Liang; Ricky; 3xjiang@gmail.com; Adam Nelson; Craig Brandle; amitrao10@gmail.com;
andytzhou@yahoo.com; d.gmach@gmail.com; danielzcb@gmail.com; dillon.b.yang@gmail.com; gerry.fan@gmail.com;
harrywang5300@gmail.com; hgjbworks@yahoo.com; hocken1@sbcglobal.net; jeff.curtiss@gmail.com;
julien.klein@gmail.com; laurierng@gmail.com; lysosomes; msmithphd@att.net; pmacadem@gmail.com;
qiangc@gmail.com; runlongz@yahoo.com; ryanpcaloca@gmail.com; tkmori@gmail.com; yipgordon@yahoo.com;
yjing@yahooo.com; zhouemily6@gmail.com
Subject: Re: Mitchell Park plans to designate permanent Pickle Ball courts

Hi Palo Alto City Council,

I am writing to get your attention regarding the project of converting Mitchell Park's court 5‐7 to pickle ball
courts.

Just learned from Jennie that the decision has been made to proceed. Not sure if this can be confirmed but
the question is regarding the decision making process regarding the proposal and how much effort has been
mad to collect inputs from Palo Alto residents and the communities.

First of all, I am not sure if Palo Alto residents have been solicited for input in a way that is convincing. I
hesitate to say that most of Palo Alto residents will be surprised to learned the decision. But I am sure most
                                                       4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/8/2018 8:39 AM
tennis players who plays often at MP will be surprised to learn about this as I have just talked to about 10
players at MP in the holiday season and none of them knew the plan, less alone the decision.

Can I say that this is not the proper way how Palo Alto city makes this kind of decision ?

I am NOT convinced that having Pickle ball players share the courts with tennis players has permit issue.
What issues are we facing here? Can this be explained in some detail at all?

Also I am curious about the initial motivation to this. What are we trying to achieve by this? Are we trying to
get more people to sport activities and thus more healthy living in Palo Alto? Then tennis playing is not? If
both are, then are we saying that there are more pickle ball players waiting for courts than tennis players? If
that is the reason, can someone really present the evidence? So please let us know the motivation behind all
these.

If city budget to build new pickle courts is limited, then why are we trying to tear down the tennis/hand ball
walls and built one new tennis court over there? I guess it is non sense if someone hints that the city can save
a bit of money, let alone at the cost of tennis courts destructions.

So in short, I am confused by the wisdom of our city council regarding this project. Sorry this is my first time
publicly ...

Regards,
Jason Li




                                                       5
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/5/2018 7:53 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Keith Ferrell <ferrell.keith@gmail.com>
Sent:                              Thursday, January 04, 2018 2:43 PM
To:                                Kamhi, Philip
Cc:                                Hur, Mark; Council, City
Subject:                           Re: Question on permits
Attachments:                       PRR_W000960-101717_Active_Permit_Count_.pdf



Thanks

I forgot to attach the file, but I have attached it here.

Looking at 1691 El Camino Real: It shows them as having 10 EPR permits, 8 EPRH permits and 1 EPRS. So,
one business address has 18 resident permits in addition to a resident scratcher if I'm reading that correctly.

Yet, according to the resolution, residents are only able to purchase 5 permits in the Evergreen Park/Mayfield
district.
The same issue occurs with 1681 El Camino Real. That address shows 4 EPR permits, 2 EPRH permits and 10
EPRS.

That is 24 permits sold as residential, that are actually businesses. In addition, if the mistake is that they were
considered residences, then they were still sold too many permits. On top of that, due to this error,your show
rates, at least for Zone A are incorrect and misleading. According to the people at 1681 and 1691 that were at
our meeting in December, all of their employees are at work every day. So, your average show rate in Zone A
is now more like 66%. Your data would also show that between 12pm and 5pm, approximately half of all of
the cars in Zone A are non-residents. I would not consider that the goal of Comp Plan Policy T-47 "Protect
residential areas from the parking impacts of nearby business districts."

Given that your recommendations are based on this incorrect information. I do not see how this information
can be presented to council, when it is obviously and knowingly inaccurate.

Looking at the verbage of the EP/Mayfield RPP resolution, it states:
"It provides for implementation of the Evergreen Park-Mayfield RPP program as a one-year pilot by
enacting the following measures:
Establishes a cap of 250 annual employee parking permits for the first year of the Evergreen Park-Mayfield
RPP program. Permits will be allocated by employee parking zone."

It also states:
"Residents of Evergreen Park have requested that the number of employee permits be reduced each year,
such that they are zero after five years. Staff does not recommend implementation of an employee parking
permit reduction or phase out at this time, although that could be considered after the one-year pilot."

I also notice that one address, 1795 El Camino Real has 35 permits in Zone A out of a total of 75
issued.

Questions:

                                                            1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/5/2018 7:53 AM
Why is it that the business can request MORE permits prior to the end of the one-year pilot, but residents can
not request a reduction of permits until AFTER the one-year pilot?

Whats the difference between a daily permit and a scratcher? Is it that only residents can purchase scratchers?

Is there not a delineation between employees and residents for hangtags? There only seems to be one
designation for hangtags, EPRH. I have seen many employee hangtags.

How do we tell the difference between an employee hangtag and a resident hangtag? This report does not show
a difference. Given that there are over 250 of the EPRH permits, it is fairly important to be able to determine
how many are residents vs. employees.

There are several addresses that are not Palo Alto addresses and/or are not in the Evergreen Park/Mayfield
district. How can we tell what business those permits are attached to?

Can you also send me a copy of the slides you presented at the Evergreen Park/Mayfield community meeting
that occured after the Southgate meeting?

Thanks
Keith


On Thu, Jan 4, 2018 at 1:51 PM, Kamhi, Philip <Philip.Kamhi@cityofpaloalto.org> wrote:

 Hi Keith,




 Here is the code from our contractor:

 EPESA is a daily permit in zone A Evergreen Park

 EPESB Zone B daily Evergreen Park

 EPESC Zone C daily Evergreen Park

 EPRH Evergreen Park Hangtag

 EPRS Evergreen Park scratcher, only good for residents

 Best,

                Philip Kamhi
                Transportation Programs Manager

                PLANNING & COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT

                Transportation

                Philip.Kamhi@CityofPaloAlto.org


                                                          2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/5/2018 7:53 AM
               office: 650.329.2520 fax: 650.329.2154



Use PaloAlto311 to report items you’d like the City to fix. Download the app or click here to make a service request.




From: Keith Ferrell [mailto:ferrell.keith@gmail.com]
Sent: Thursday, January 04, 2018 12:09 PM
To: Kamhi, Philip
Subject: Question on permits




Hi Philip,

Looking at this file, can you clarify for me what the following acronyms mean?



EPEA: Looks like Evergreen Park Employee Zone A

EPEB: same in Zone B

EPEC: same in Zone C

EPR: Evergreen Park Resident



My question is in the following:



EPESA

EPESB

EPESC

EPRH

EPRS

                                                                 3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/5/2018 7:53 AM



What is the purpose of those last 5?



Thanks
Keith




                                                     4
Permit Prefix (Employee - Decals)                                Total
EPEA                                                               71
EPEB                                                               50
EPEC                                                              123
Total                                                             244
Permit Prefix (Employee - Daily
Scratchers)
EPESA                                                             131
EPESB                                                             135
EPESC                                                             141
Total                                                             407
Permit Prefix (Residents)
EPR                                                               566
EPRH                                                              266
EPRS                                                               97
Total                                                             929

             Customer UID                           SubClass             Prefix              Address                 Secondary        City   State      Zip   Permit
                                                                                                                                                              Count
                                     9205   Employee - Reduced           EPEA     2233 El Camino Real                            palo alto   CA      94306             1
                                    10015   EPM-Employee                 EPEA     1865 El Camino Real                            Palo Alto   CA      94306             1
                                    10251   EPM-Employee                 EPEA     450 Cambridge Avenue                           Palo Alto   CA      94306             1
                                    10148   EPM-Employee                 EPEA     1805 El Camino Real                            Palo alto   CA      94306             1
                                    11378   EPM-Employee                 EPEA     1895 El Camino Real                            PALO ALTO   CA      94306             1
                                    10012   EPM-Employee                 EPEA     1865 El Camino Real                            Palo Alto   CA      94306             1
                                     9885   EPM-Employee                 EPEA     2209 El Camino Real #200                       Palo Alto   CA      94306             1
                                    10014   EPM-Employee                 EPEA     1865 El Camino Real                            Palo Alto   CA      94306             1
                                     9699   EPM-Employee                 EPEA     450 Cambridge Ave.                             Palo Alto   CA      94306             1
                                    11049   EPM-Employee                 EPEA     2209 El Camino Real                            Palo Alto   CA      94306             1
                                     9704   EPM-Employee                 EPEA     450 Cambridge Ave                              Palo Alto   CA      94306             1
                                     9884   EPM-Employee                 EPEA     2209 El Camino Real #200                       Palo Alto   CA      94306             1
                                     9794   EPM-Employee                 EPEA     1805 El Camino Real                            Palo alto   CA      94306             1
                                    11556   EPM-Employee                 EPEA     2051 El Camino Real                            Palo Alto   CA      94306             1
                                     9798   EPM-Employee                 EPEA     1805 El Camino Real                            Palo Alto   CA      94306             1
                                     9748   EPM-Employee                 EPEA     1895 El Camino Real                            Palo Alto   CA      94306             1
                                    10013   EPM-Employee                 EPEA     1865 El Camino Real                            Palo Alto   CA      94306             1
                                    10018   EPM-Employee                 EPEA     1865 El Camino Real                            Palo Alto   CA      94306             1
                                     9553   EPM-Employee                 EPEA     480 S. California Ave, Suite 201               Palo Alto   CA      94306             1
                                    10166   EPM-Employee                 EPEA     1805 el camino real                            palo alto   CA      94306             1
                                    10712   EPM-Employee                 EPEA     2290 Birch St. Suite C                         Palo Alto   CA      94306             1
                                    10185   EPM-Employee                 EPEA     1805 El Camino Real                            Palo Alto   CA      94306-            1
                                                                                                                                                     1163
                                    10312   EPM-Employee                 EPEA     1895 El Camino Real                            Palo Alto   CA      94306             1
                                     9806   EPM-Employee                 EPEA     250 Cambridge Ave                              Palo Alto   CA      94306             1
                                    10016   EPM-Employee                 EPEA     1865 El Camino Real                            Palo Alto   CA      94306             1
                                     9582   EPM-Employee                 EPEA     1895 El Camino Real                            Palo Alto   CA      94306             1
                                     9882   EPM-Employee                 EPEA     2209 El Camino Real #200                       Palo Alto   CA      94306             1
                                    10084   EPM-Employee                 EPEA     1895 El Camino Real                            Palo Alto   CA      94306             1
                                    10308   EPM-Employee                 EPEA     1895 El Camino Real                            Palo Alto   CA      94306             1
                                     9655   EPM-Employee                 EPEA     2209 El Camino Real #200                       Palo Alto   CA      94306             1
                                    10259   EPM-Employee                 EPEA     1805 el camino real                            palo alto   CA      94306             1
9795    Evergreen Park Business   EPEA   1805 El Camino Real         Palo Alto   CA   94306   1
        Owner
9932    Evergreen Park Business   EPEA   2233 El Camino Real         Palo Alto   CA   94306   1
        Owner
9433    Evergreen Park Business   EPEA   908 cottrell way            Stanford    CA   94305   1
        Owner
10786   Evergreen Park Business   EPEA   318 Cambridge Ave.          Palo Alto   CA   94306   3
        Owner
10270   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEA   1921 El Camino Real         Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10054   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEA   1795 El Camino Real         Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10031   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEA   1805 El Camino Real         Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10088   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEA   1921 El Camino Real         Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9994   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEA   1795 El Camino Real Suite   Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10038   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEA   1921 El Camino Real         Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10085   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEA   1921 El Camino Real         Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10025   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEA   1805 El Camino Real         Palo Alto   CA   94036    1
10269   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEA   1921 El Camino Real         Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10332   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEA   1921 El Camino Real         Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
11969   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEA   1805 El Camino Real         Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10281   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEA   1921 El Camino Real         Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10023   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEA   1805 El Camino real         Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10302   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEA   450 Cambridge Avenue        Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9991   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEA   1795 El Camino Real Suite   Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10032   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEA   1805 El Camino Real         Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10176   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEA   1795 El Camino Real         Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9989   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEA   1795 El Camino Real Suite   Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10271   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEA   1921 El Camino Real         Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10780   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEA   1805 El Camino Real         Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9984   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEA   1795 El Camino Real         Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10056   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEA   1795 El Camino Real         Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
11972   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEA   1805 El Camino Real         Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
11970   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEA   1805 El Camino Real         Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10039   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEA   1921 El Camino Real         Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9987   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEA   1921 El Camino Real         Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10272   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEA   1921 El Camino Real         Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9990   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEA   1795 El Camino Real Suite   Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9993   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEA   1795 El Camino Real Suite   Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9996   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEA   1795 el camino real         palo alto   CA   94306    1
 9992   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEA   1795 El Camino Real Suite   Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10081   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEA   1805 El Camino Real         Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10086   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEA   1921 El Camino Real         Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10040   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEA   1921 El Camino Real         Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
                                                                                      EPEA    71

 9953   EPM-Employee              EPEB   2443 Ash St                 Palo Alto   CA   94306   1
10608   EPM-Employee              EPEB   2051 El Camino Real         Palo Alto   CA   94306   1
11809   EPM-Employee              EPEB   2051 El Camino Real         PALO ALTO   CA   94306   1
10286   EPM-Employee              EPEB   448 College Ave             Palo Alto   CA   94306   1
 9917   EPM-Employee              EPEB   2443 Ash Street             Palo Alto   CA   94306   1
 9688   EPM-Employee              EPEB   20800 Homestead Road        Cupertino   CA   95014   1
11777   EPM-Employee              EPEB   2443 Ash Str                Palo Alto   CA   94306   1
10174   EPM-Employee              EPEB   456 College Ave.           Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
10171   EPM-Employee              EPEB   456 College Ave.           Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
11762   EPM-Employee              EPEB   490 California Ave         Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
11806   EPM-Employee              EPEB   2051 El Camino Real        Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
11811   EPM-Employee              EPEB   2051 El Camino Real        Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
10716   EPM-Employee              EPEB   2290 Birch St. Suite C     Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
11031   EPM-Employee              EPEB   2443 Ash St                Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
10708   EPM-Employee              EPEB   2290 Birch St. Suite C     Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
 9549   EPM-Employee              EPEB   387 Anna Avenue            Mountain View   CA   94043    1
10712   EPM-Employee              EPEB   2290 Birch St. Suite C     Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
11755   EPM-Employee              EPEB   490 California Ave         Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
10711   EPM-Employee              EPEB   2290 Birch St. Suite C     Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
10713   EPM-Employee              EPEB   2290 Birch St. Suite C     Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
10715   EPM-Employee              EPEB   2290 Birch St, Ste C       Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
10143   EPM-Employee              EPEB   1285 Chapel Drive          Santa Clara     CA   95050    1
11752   EPM-Employee              EPEB   2443 Ash St                Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
 9626   EPM-Employee              EPEB   450 Cambridge Avenue       Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
11764   EPM-Employee              EPEB   2443 Ash St.               Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
11886   EPM-Employee              EPEB   1519 Willowgate Drive      San Jose        CA   95118    1
11171   EPM-Employee              EPEB   410 Cambridge Ave          Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
10710   EPM-Employee              EPEB   2290 Birch St, Ste C       Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
 9893   EPM-Employee              EPEB   2318 Buena Vista Ave       Belmont         CA   94002    1
10786   Evergreen Park Business   EPEB   318 Cambridge Ave.         Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
        Owner
10028   Evergreen Park Business   EPEB   480 California Ave         Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
        Owner
 9753   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEB   457 College Avenue         Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
 9721   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEB   450 CAMBRIDGE AVE          PALO ALTO       CA   94306    1
11731   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEB   440 S California Ave       Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
10811   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEB   P.O. Box 633               Saratoga        CA   95071    1
 9768   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEB   457 College Ave            Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
10169   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEB   456 College Avenue         PALO ALTO       CA   94306    1
 9854   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEB   457 College Avenue         Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
 9650   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEB   450 Cambridge Avenue       Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
10184   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEB   440 S California Ave       Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
 9729   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEB   463 California Avenue      Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
 9752   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEB   450 Cambridge Ave.         Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
 9867   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEB   457 College Ave            Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
 9700   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEB   450 Cambridge Avenue       Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
 9646   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEB   440 S CALIFORNIA AVE       PALO ALTO       CA   94306-   1
                                                                                         1605
10096   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEB   440 S California Ave       Palo Alto       CA   94306     1
11563   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEB   4307 Renaissance Dr        San Jose        CA   95134     1
 9774   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEB   310 California Ave         Palo Alto       CA   94306     1
 9713   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEB   250 Cambridge Ave          Palo Alto       CA   94306     1
 9755   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEB   457 College ave            Palo Alto       CA   94306     1
                                                                                         EPEB     50

9205    Employee - Reduced        EPEC   2111 El Camino             palo alto       CA   94306    1
9773    EPM-Employee              EPEC   261 south california ave   palo alto       CA   94306    1
9679    EPM-Employee              EPEC   955 Esalon Ave             Sunnyvale       CA   94085    1
 9760   EPM-Employee   EPEC   440 S California Ave           Palo Alto       CA   94306   1
11966   EPM-Employee   EPEC   260 Sheridan Ave               Palo Alto       CA   94306   1
 4167   EPM-Employee   EPEC   33933 Whitehead lane           Fremont         CA   94555   1
11948   EPM-Employee   EPEC   2290 Birch St. Suite C         Palo Alto       CA   94306   1
10806   EPM-Employee   EPEC   206 S. California Ave          Palo Alto       CA   94086   1
 9941   EPM-Employee   EPEC   451 Sherman Ave                Palo Alto       CA   94306   1
11910   EPM-Employee   EPEC   260 Sheridan Ave               Palo Alto       CA   94306   1
11889   EPM-Employee   EPEC   2443 Ash Street                Palo Alto       CA   94306   1
10380   EPM-Employee   EPEC   4610 Winding Way               San Jose        CA   95129   1
 9580   EPM-Employee   EPEC   1106 Laguna Avenue Apt 5       Burlingame      CA   94010   1
 9900   EPM-Employee   EPEC   1795 El Camino Real            Palo Alto       CA   94306   1
11950   EPM-Employee   EPEC   260 Sheridan Ave               Palo Alto       CA   94306   1
10240   EPM-Employee   EPEC   Stanford Medicine Imaging      Palo Alto       CA   94306   1
                              Center
 9951   EPM-Employee   EPEC   2443 Ash St                    palo alto       CA   94306   1
10021   EPM-Employee   EPEC   2443 Ash Street                Palo Alto       CA   94306   1
 9948   EPM-Employee   EPEC   2443 Ash St                    Palo Alto       CA   94306   1
11955   EPM-Employee   EPEC   1104 SOCORRO AVE               SUNNYVALE       CA   94089   1
11915   EPM-Employee   EPEC   21230 Homestead Rd             Cupertino       CA   95014   1
10799   EPM-Employee   EPEC   2443 Ash St                    Palo Alto       CA   94306   1
11759   EPM-Employee   EPEC   2443 Ash Street                Palo Alto       CA   94306   1
11827   EPM-Employee   EPEC   490 California Ave             Palo Alto       CA   94306   1
11765   EPM-Employee   EPEC   490 California Ave             Palo Alto       CA   94306   1
11964   EPM-Employee   EPEC   260 Sheridan Ave               Palo Alto       CA   94306   1
12040   EPM-Employee   EPEC   260 Sheridan Ave               Palo Alto       CA   94306   1
10051   EPM-Employee   EPEC   2443 Ash St                    Palo Alto       CA   94306   1
11770   EPM-Employee   EPEC   490 California Ave             Palo Alto       CA   94306   1
10772   EPM-Employee   EPEC   445 Sherman Ave                Palo Alto       CA   94306   1
10299   EPM-Employee   EPEC   430 Sherman Ave                Palo Alto       CA   94306   1
 9999   EPM-Employee   EPEC   1795 El Camino Real            Palo Alto       CA   94306   1
10768   EPM-Employee   EPEC   445 Sherman Aven               Palo Alto       CA   94306   1
11987   EPM-Employee   EPEC   260 Sheridan Ave               Palo Alto       CA   94306   1
 9661   EPM-Employee   EPEC   405 California Ave             Palo Alto       CA   94306   1
10796   EPM-Employee   EPEC   1080 69th Ave                  Oakland         CA   94621   1
11954   EPM-Employee   EPEC   260 Sheridan Avenue            Palo Alto       CA   94306   1
11931   EPM-Employee   EPEC   260 Sheridan Ave               Palo Alto       CA   94306   1
 9954   EPM-Employee   EPEC   2443 Ash St                    Palo Alto       CA   94306   1
 9579   EPM-Employee   EPEC   2254 ALEXIAN DRIVE             SAN JOSE        CA   95116   1
 9938   EPM-Employee   EPEC   451 Sherman Ave.               Palo Alto       CA   94306   1
10306   EPM-Employee   EPEC   445 Sherman Ave                Palo Alto       CA   94306   1
10001   EPM-Employee   EPEC   1795 El Camino Real            Palo Alto       CA   94306   1
11963   EPM-Employee   EPEC   260 Sheridan Ave               Palo Alto       CA   94306   1
10855   EPM-Employee   EPEC   206 S. California Ave          Palo Alto       CA   94306   1
11771   EPM-Employee   EPEC   575 S. Rengstorff Ave          Mountain View   CA   94040   1
10242   EPM-Employee   EPEC   4750 El Camino Real, Apt 410   Los Altos       CA   94022   1
 9254   EPM-Employee   EPEC   260 Sheridan Ave               Palo Alto       CA   94306   1
10000   EPM-Employee   EPEC   1795 El Camino Real            Palo Alto       CA   94306   1
11750   EPM-Employee   EPEC   490 California Ave             Palo Alto       CA   94306   1
10241   EPM-Employee   EPEC   Stanford Medicine Imaging      Palo Alto       CA   94306   1
                              Center
10155   EPM-Employee   EPEC   590 San Juan St                Stanford        CA   94305   1
10067   EPM-Employee              EPEC   2443 Ash Street                 Palo Alto      CA   94306       1
 9840   EPM-Employee              EPEC   490 California Ave              Palo Alto      CA   94306       1
11763   EPM-Employee              EPEC   490 California Ave              Palo Alto      CA   94306       1
10521   EPM-Employee              EPEC   2443 Ash St                     Palo Alto      CA   94306       1
12060   EPM-Employee              EPEC   260 Sheridan Ave                Palo Alto      CA   94306       1
10767   EPM-Employee              EPEC   445 Sherman Ave STE 130         Palo Alto      CA   94306       1
11971   EPM-Employee              EPEC   260 Sheridan Ave                Palo Alto      CA   94306       1
11912   EPM-Employee              EPEC   260 Sheridan Ave                Palo Alto      CA   94306       1
 9877   EPM-Employee              EPEC   250 Cambridge Avenue, Suite     Palo Alto      CA   94306       1
                                         204
10795   EPM-Employee              EPEC   38802 EMROL AVE                 FREMONT        CA   94536       1
11968   EPM-Employee              EPEC   490 California Ave              Palo Alto      CA   94306       1
 9589   EPM-Employee              EPEC   290 S California Ave            Palo Alto      CA   94306       1
10809   EPM-Employee              EPEC   368 N Murphy Ave                Sunnyvale      CA   94085       1
 9852   EPM-Employee              EPEC   667 Upton Street                Redwood City   CA   94061       1
 9956   EPM-Employee              EPEC   2443 Ash St                     Palo Alto      CA   94306       1
10763   EPM-Employee              EPEC   445 Sherman Ave, Suite 130      Palo Alto      CA   94306       1
 9537   EPM-Employee              EPEC   451 Sherman Ave                 Palo Alto      CA   94306       1
11605   EPM-Employee              EPEC   445 Sherman Ave                 Palo Alto      CA   94306       1
11953   EPM-Employee              EPEC   2443 Ash Street                 Palo Alto      CA   94306       1
11914   EPM-Employee              EPEC   260 Sheridan Ave                Palo Alto      CA   94306       1
11708   EPM-Employee              EPEC   445 Sherman Avenue              palo alto      CA   94306       1
11700   EPM-Employee              EPEC   445 Sherman Avenue              Palo Alto      CA   94306       1
10354   EPM-Employee              EPEC   1795 El Camino Real             Palo Alto      CA   94306       1
10770   EPM-Employee              EPEC   5846 Zileman Court              San Jose       CA   95123       1
11909   EPM-Employee              EPEC   260 Sheridan Ave                Palo Alto      CA   94306       1
11751   EPM-Employee              EPEC   490 CALIFORNIA AVE              PALO ALTO      CA   94306       1
12047   EPM-Employee              EPEC   2569 Park Blvd                  Palo Alto      CA   94306       1
10463   EPM-Employee              EPEC   1895 El Camino Real             Palo Alto      CA   94306       1
12065   EPM-Employee              EPEC   1380 Oak Creek Dr               Palo Alto      CA   94304       1
 9998   EPM-Employee              EPEC   1795 El Camino Real             Palo Alto      CA   94306       1
12003   EPM-Employee              EPEC   2175 Decoto Road Apt. 120       Union City     CA   94587       1
10243   EPM-Employee              EPEC   Stanford Medicine Imaging       Palo Alto      CA   94306       1
                                         Center
10003   EPM-Employee              EPEC   1795 El Camino Real Suite 100   Palo Alto      CA   94306       1
 9818   EPM-Employee              EPEC   2443 Ash St                     Palo Alto      CA   943064306   1
11761   EPM-Employee              EPEC   490 California Ave              Palo Alto      CA   94306       1
11921   EPM-Employee              EPEC   260 Sheridan Ave                Palo Alto      CA   94306       1
11754   EPM-Employee              EPEC   2443 Ash St                     Palo Alto      CA   94036       1
10300   EPM-Employee              EPEC   430 Sherman Ave.                Palo Alto      CA   94306       1
10194   EPM-Employee              EPEC   430 Sherman Ave                 Palo Alto      CA   94306       1
11917   EPM-Employee              EPEC   260 Sheridan Ave                Palo Alto      CA   94306       1
10193   EPM-Employee              EPEC   430 Sherman Ave                 Palo Alto      CA   94306       1
 9878   Evergreen Park Business   EPEC   430 Sherman Ave.                Palo Alto      CA   94306       1
        Owner
9779    Evergreen Park Business   EPEC   310 S California Avenue         Palo Alto      CA   94306       1
        Owner
10919   Evergreen Park Business   EPEC   260 sheridan                    palo alto      CA   94301       1
        Owner
10582   Evergreen Park Business   EPEC   2625 park blvd.                 palo alto      CA   94306       1
        Owner
10431   Evergreen Park Business   EPEC   260 Sheridan Ave                Palo Alto      CA   94306       6
        Owner
11730   Evergreen Park Business   EPEC    1104 SOCORRO AVE                SUNNYVALE       CA   94089    1
        Owner
10786   Evergreen Park Business   EPEC    318 Cambridge Ave.              Palo Alto       CA   94306    8
        Owner
11888   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEC    2443 Ash St                     Palo Alto       CA   94306     1
 9627   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEC    463 s california avenue         palo alto       CA   94306     1
10900   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEC    415 s California av.            Palo alto       CA   94306     1
 9521   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEC    928 Los Robles Ave              Palo Alto       CA   94306     1
 9943   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEC    451 Sherman Avenue              Palo Alto       CA   94306     1
10064   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEC    407 Sherman Avenue              Palo Alto       CA   94306     1
11599   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEC    407 California Avenue           Palo Alto       CA   94306     1
 9659   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEC    463 California Ave.             Palo Alto       CA   94306     1
11844   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEC    5484 Blossom Terrace Ct         San Jose        CA   95124     1
10412   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEC    405 California Ave              Palo Alto       CA   94306     1
10883   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPEC    777 San Antonio rd              Palo alto       CA   94303     1
                                                                                               EPEC    123

11378   EPM-Employee              EPESA   1895 El Camino Real             PALO ALTO       CA   94306    5
10316   EPM-Employee              EPESA   2185 Park Blvd                  Palo Alto       CA   94306   10
 9900   EPM-Employee              EPESA   1795 El Camino Real             Palo Alto       CA   94306   10
10409   EPM-Employee              EPESA   2185 Park Blvd                  Palo Alto       CA   94306   10
 9621   EPM-Employee              EPESA   1691 El Camino Real             Palo alto       CA   94306    1
 9999   EPM-Employee              EPESA   1795 El Camino Real             Palo Alto       CA   94306    4
10001   EPM-Employee              EPESA   1795 El Camino Real             Palo Alto       CA   94306   10
10000   EPM-Employee              EPESA   1795 El Camino Real             Palo Alto       CA   94306   10
10354   EPM-Employee              EPESA   1795 El Camino Real             Palo Alto       CA   94306    5
 9998   EPM-Employee              EPESA   1795 El Camino Real             Palo Alto       CA   94306   10
10003   EPM-Employee              EPESA   1795 El Camino Real Suite 100   Palo Alto       CA   94306   10
 9796   Evergreen Park Business   EPESA   1921 El Camino Real             Palo Alto       CA   94306   10
        Owner
10786   Evergreen Park Business   EPESA   318 Cambridge Ave.              Palo Alto       CA   94306   10
        Owner
10396   Evergreen Park Business   EPESA   1795 El Camino Real             Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
        Owner
10054   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPESA   1795 El Camino Real             Palo Alto       CA   94306    10
10031   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPESA   1805 El Camino Real             Palo Alto       CA   94306     1
10542   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPESA   507 Central Ave                 Mountain View   CA   94043     1
10125   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPESA   2011 El Camino Real             Palo Alto       CA   94306     1
10343   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPESA   1921 El Camino Real             Palo Alto       CA   94306     1
 9992   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPESA   1795 El Camino Real Suite       Palo Alto       CA   94306    10
 3902   Resident Verified         EPESA   1200 Bryant St                  Palo Alto       CA   94301     1
                                                                                               EPESA   131

9540    EPM-Employee              EPESB   176 W. Bonner Drive             Mountain        CA   95391   10
                                                                          House
10316   EPM-Employee              EPESB   2185 Park Blvd                  Palo Alto       CA   94306   10
10409   EPM-Employee              EPESB   2185 Park Blvd                  Palo Alto       CA   94306   10
 9952   EPM-Employee              EPESB   940 Colonial Lane               Palo Alto       CA   94303   10
12158   EPM-Employee              EPESB   2151 Deodara Drive              Los Altos       CA   94024   10
11762   EPM-Employee              EPESB   490 California Ave              Palo Alto       CA   94306   10
10708   EPM-Employee              EPESB   2290 Birch St. Suite C          Palo Alto       CA   94306   10
11755   EPM-Employee              EPESB   490 California Ave         Palo Alto       CA   94306   10
11750   EPM-Employee              EPESB   490 California Ave         Palo Alto       CA   94306   10
 9934   EPM-Employee              EPESB   2233 El Camino Real        Palo Alto       CA   94306   10
10604   EPM-Employee              EPESB   260 S California Ave       Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
 9582   EPM-Employee              EPESB   1895 El Camino Real        Palo Alto       CA   94306    2
 9956   EPM-Employee              EPESB   2443 Ash St                Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
11751   EPM-Employee              EPESB   490 CALIFORNIA AVE         PALO ALTO       CA   94306    7
11761   EPM-Employee              EPESB   490 California Ave         Palo Alto       CA   94306   10
 9932   Evergreen Park Business   EPESB   2233 El Camino Real        Palo Alto       CA   94306    2
        Owner
10786   Evergreen Park Business   EPESB   318 Cambridge Ave.         Palo Alto       CA   94306   10
        Owner
12153   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPESB   310 S Cal Ave              Palo Alto       CA   94306     1
 9774   Evergreen Park Reduced    EPESB   310 California Ave         Palo Alto       CA   94306     1
                                                                                          EPESB   135

10687   EPM-Employee              EPESC   2443 Ash Street            Palo Alto       CA   94306   10
12361   EPM-Employee              EPESC   430 Sherman Avenue         Palo Alto       CA   94306   10
10736   EPM-Employee              EPESC   421 california ave         palo alto       CA   94306    1
11316   EPM-Employee              EPESC   430 Sherman Av             Palo Alto       CA   94306   10
12347   EPM-Employee              EPESC   407 Sherman Ave            Palo Alto       CA   94306   10
12158   EPM-Employee              EPESC   2151 Deodara Drive         Los Altos       CA   94024   10
11762   EPM-Employee              EPESC   490 California Ave         Palo Alto       CA   94306   10
10051   EPM-Employee              EPESC   2443 Ash St                Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
11111   EPM-Employee              EPESC   430 Sherman Avenue         Palo Alto       CA   94306   10
11755   EPM-Employee              EPESC   490 California Ave         Palo Alto       CA   94306   10
10306   EPM-Employee              EPESC   445 Sherman Ave            Palo Alto       CA   94306   10
11771   EPM-Employee              EPESC   575 S. Rengstorff Ave      Mountain View   CA   94040    1
11750   EPM-Employee              EPESC   490 California Ave         Palo Alto       CA   94306   10
10653   EPM-Employee              EPESC   2275 el Camino real        Palo alto       CA   94306    1
10521   EPM-Employee              EPESC   2443 Ash St                Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
10795   EPM-Employee              EPESC   38802 EMROL AVE            FREMONT         CA   94536    8
11764   EPM-Employee              EPESC   2443 Ash St.               Palo Alto       CA   94306    2
11751   EPM-Employee              EPESC   490 CALIFORNIA AVE         PALO ALTO       CA   94306    5
11761   EPM-Employee              EPESC   490 California Ave         Palo Alto       CA   94306   10
10786   Evergreen Park Business   EPESC   318 Cambridge Ave.         Palo Alto       CA   94306   10
        Owner
9730    Evergreen Park Reduced    EPESC   463 s. california avenue   Palo Alto       CA   94306     1
                                                                                          EPESC   141

 9205   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR     376 College #5             palo alto       CA   94306    3
 9205   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR     360 Sheridan #113          Palo Alto       CA   94306    2
 9205   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR     360 Sheridan #318          Palo Alto       CA   94306    2
 9205   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR     445 Grant Ave #2           Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
 9205   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR     1866 Park Blvd.            Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
 9764   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR     1805 El Camino Real        Palo Alto       CA   94306    2
10208   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR     1805 El Camino Real        Palo Alto       CA   94306    2
 9685   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR     163 Park Avenue            palo alto       CA   94306    1
11639   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR     303 Sheridan Ave           Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
10725   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR     354 College Avenue         Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
11180   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR     340 Stanford Ave.          Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
10764   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   410 Sheridan ave                palo alto   CA   94306    1
 9305   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   277 College Ave.                Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
11058   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2585 park blvd.                 palo alto   CA   94306    1
11740   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   484 Oxford Ave                  Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10851   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   410 leland                      palo alto   CA   94306    1
 9645   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   396 Stanford Ave                Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
11149   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2091A El Camino Real            Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10844   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2166 Ash Street                 Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10145   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   360 Sheridan Ave.               Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9963   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   123 Sherman Avenue              Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10498   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   454 Grant Avenue                Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
11721   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   267 College Ave                 Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
11156   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   425 Grant Ave                   Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10288   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   430 Stanford Avenue             Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
11515   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   346 College Ave APT A           Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
11500   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   260 College Ave                 Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9732   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   334 College Ave                 Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10500   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   446 Grant Ave                   Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10797   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   425 Grant Avenue #19            Palo Alto   CA   94306-   1
                                                                                         1814
12192   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   346 College Ave                 Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10594   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   484 Oxford Avenue               Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
 9590   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   117 S California Ave Apt D400   Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10805   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   348 grant avenue                Palo alto   CA   94306    1
10662   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   1720 Park Blvd                  Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10664   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   1720 Park Blvd                  Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
12233   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   391 College Ave                 Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10591   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   428 Oxford Ave.                 Palo Alto   CA   94306    3
 9744   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   1810 Birch St.                  Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10338   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   290 Stanford Ave                Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
11069   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   155 S. California Ave.          Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
11734   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   420 Cambridge Avenue            Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9922   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   322 College Ave Apt. F          Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10506   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   425 college ave                 palo alto   CA   94306    1
11216   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2585 Park Boulevard             Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10789   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   376 College Avenue              Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10738   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   360 Sheridan Ave                Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
12121   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   360 sheridan avenue             Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10701   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   149 S. California Ave.          Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10760   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   416 Leland Avenue               Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10218   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   376 College Avenue              palo alto   CA   94306    1
10749   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2065 Park Blvd.                 Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9629   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   178 park ave                    palo alto   CA   94306    1
11331   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   360 sheridan ave                Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9503   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   1880 Park Blvd                  Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
11394   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   316 Grant Avenue                Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10007   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   446 College Ave                 Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10948   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   447 Leland Ave.                 Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9791   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   1933 Birch STreet               Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10831   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2585 park blvd Z206             palo alto   CA   94306    1
 9457   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   435 Sheridan Ave Apt 302        Palo Alto   CA   94306-   1
                                                                                              2052
10233   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   334 grant ave.                   palo alto       CA   94306    1
10798   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   301 Stanford Ave                 Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
10252   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   390 College Avenue               Palo Alto       CA   94306    3
10895   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2583 Park Blvd.                  Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
 9776   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   444 Oxford Ave                   Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
11139   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   345 Sheridan Ave                 Palo Alto       CA   94306-   1
                                                                                              2000
12146   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   314 College Avenue               Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
 9175   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2431 Ash Street #102             Palo Alto       CA   94304    1
10913   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   270 Leland Avenue                Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
10403   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   345 Leland Avenue                Palo Alto       CA   94306    3
 9821   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   1743 Park Blvd                   Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
10334   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   425 grant ave                    palo alto       CA   94306    1
11412   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   376 College Avenue               Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
 9602   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   1691 El Camino Real, Suite 100   Palo Alto       CA   94306    3
 9890   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   435 Sheridan Ave                 Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
10046   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   175 Campbell Dr                  Mountain View   CA   94043    1
10865   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   360 Sheridan Ave                 Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
11348   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   395 Leland Avenue                Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
 9712   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   427 College Avenue               Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
10048   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   416 Oxford Ave                   Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
12022   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   210 College Ave                  Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
10230   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   1834 Park Blvd.                  Palo Alto       CA   94306    2
 9865   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   435 Sheridan Ave. #102           Palo Alto       CA   94306-   2
                                                                                              2044
12059   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   334 College Ave                  Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
10695   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   1815 Park Blvd                   Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
10596   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   332 Oxford Ave                   Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
10562   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   443 1/2 Leland Avenue            Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
10729   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   360 College Avenue               Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
10947   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   418 College Avenue               Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
12226   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2431 Ash St                      Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
11807   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   269 College Ave                  Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
10563   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2583 Park Blvd Apt W200          Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
 9740   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   423 Oxford Ave                   Palo Alto       CA   94306    2
11351   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   314 College Ave. #2              Palo Alto       CA   94306    2
10020   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   374 Stanford Ave                 Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
10425   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   326 Leland Ave.                  Palo Alto       CA   94306-   1
                                                                                              1127
10422   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   390 Oxford Avenue                PALO ALTO       CA   94306    1
10702   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   260 College Ave                  Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
 9681   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   200 Sheridan Ave                 Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
 9972   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   469 Grant Avenue                 Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
10688   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   373 Oxford Avenue                Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
10535   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   137 Park Avenue                  Palo Alto       CA   94306    2
10545   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   129 Park Ave.                    Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
 9745   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   1691 El Camino Real              Palo Alto       CA   94306    4
10588   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   410 STANFORD AVENUE              PALO ALTO       CA   94306    3
                                                                         CA
10584   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2585 Park Blvd                   Palo Alto       CA   94306    1
 9829   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   280 Oxford Avenue              Palo Alto   CA   94306   2
10298   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   222 Oxford Avenue              Palo Alto   CA   94306   2
10903   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   360 sheridan ave               palo alto   CA   94306   2
10841   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   455 Grant Ave                  Palo Alto   CA   94306   1
10488   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2431 Ash Street                Palo Alto   CA   94306   1
10880   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   455 Grant Avenue               Palo Alto   CA   94306   1
 9856   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2130 Birch St.                 Palo Alto   CA   94306   2
10324   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2160 Ash Street                Palo Alto   CA   94306   1
11473   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   285 College Ave                Palo Alto   CA   94306   1
10635   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   301 Oxford Ave                 Palo Alto   CA   94306   2
10938   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2431 Ash Street                Palo Alto   CA   94306   1
12080   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2510 Birch St.                 Palo Alto   CA   94306   1
10523   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2431 Ash Street                Palo Alto   CA   94306   1
10564   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   344 Leland Ave                 Palo Alto   CA   94306   1
 9662   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   1901 Birch St                  Palo Alto   CA   94306   1
 9835   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2150 Birch St                  Palo Alto   CA   94306   2
10670   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2155 BIRCH STREET              PALO ALTO   CA   94306   3
10536   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   281 Stanford Ave.              Palo Alto   CA   94306   1
 9611   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   420 Cambridge Avenue, Unit 1   Palo Alto   CA   94306   3
10984   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   360 Sheridan Ave               Palo Alto   CA   94306   1
10675   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   231 College Ave.               Palo Alto   CA   94306   1
10667   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   322 College Avenue             Palo Alto   CA   94306   1
10791   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   416 College Ave                Palo Alto   CA   94306   1
 9586   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   322 College Ave                Palo Alto   CA   94306   1
11114   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   441 Leland Ave                 Palo Alto   CA   94306   1
 9724   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   1681 El Camino Real            Palo Alto   CA   94306   4
11670   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   414 College Avenue             Palo Alto   CA   94306   1
10200   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   440 College Ave                Palo Alto   CA   94306   1
 9970   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2581 Park Blvd Apt Y207        Palo Alto   CA   94306   1
10441   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2263 Yale Ave                  palo alto   CA   94306   1
 9784   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   1920 Park Blvd                 Palo Alto   CA   94306   4
11150   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2573 Park Blvd                 Palo Alto   CA   94306   1
10515   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   1900 Birch Street              Palo Alto   CA   94306   2
11024   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   432 College Ave                Palo Alto   CA   94305   1
10836   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   466 Grant Avenue               Palo Alto   CA   94306   3
10587   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   PO Box 60447                   Palo Alto   CA   94306   2
10330   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2581 Park Blvd.                Palo Alto   CA   94306   1
11549   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   360 sheridan ave               palo alto   CA   94306   1
 9723   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   149 California Ave             Palo Alto   CA   94306   1
10574   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   381 Oxford Avenue              Palo Alto   CA   94306   2
10113   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   431 College Ave                Palo Alto   CA   94306   1
 9765   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   214 Oxford Ave                 Palo Alto   CA   94306   2
 9838   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2101 Park Blvd                 Palo Alto   CA   94306   1
 9903   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2579 Park Boulevard            Palo Alto   CA   94306   1
 9622   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   416 Oxford Ave                 Palo Alto   CA   94306   2
10801   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   254 College Ave                Palo Alto   CA   94306   3
 9810   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   408 GRANT AVE                  PALO ALTO   CA   94306   1
 9668   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   220 College Ave Apt A          Palo Alto   CA   94306   1
 9824   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   360 Stanford Ave               Palo Alto   CA   94306   1
11083   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   311 Bryant St                  palo alto   CA   94301   1
10627   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   381 Stanford Ave      Palo Alto      CA   94306    2
11831   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2077 El camino real   palo alto      CA   94306    1
10745   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   360 Sheridan Ave      Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
12064   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   375 Whitman Ct        Palo Alto      CA   94301-   1
                                                                                  2753
 9899   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   1795 Park Blvd        Palo Alto      CA   94306    3
10041   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   1789 Park Blvd        Palo Alto      CA   94306    2
10123   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   1805 Park Blvd        Palo Alto      CA   94306    2
 9161   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   314 Poe Street        Palo Alto      CA   94301    1
 9946   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   280 College Avenue    Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
10534   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   274 College Ave       Palo Alto      CA   94306-   2
                                                                                  1513
10673   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   391 Oxford Avenue     Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
10894   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   1795 El Camino Real   Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
11511   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   433 College Ave       Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
10061   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   31712 Florence Ave    Laguna Beach   CA   92651    1
 9847   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   333 Leland Avenue     Palo Alto      CA   94306    3
10437   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   431 Stanford Ave      Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
10159   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   186 Park Avenue       Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
10457   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   411 College Ave       Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
10581   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   360 Leland Ave        Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
10206   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   186 Park Ave          Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
 9761   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2110 Ash Street       Palo Alto      CA   94306    3
11125   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   345 Sheridan Avenue   Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
12261   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   346 College Avenue    Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
10019   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   260 College Avenue    Palo Alto      CA   94306    2
10953   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2083 El Camino Real   Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
10909   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   1856 Ash St           Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
 9716   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   345 Sheridan Ave.     Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
 9710   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   1883 Park Blvd.       Palo Alto      CA   94306    2
 9923   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   290 Oxford Avenue     Palo Alto      CA   94306    2
11128   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2110 Park Blvd        Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
11839   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   425 Grant Ave         Palo Alto      CA   94306    2
 9707   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   425 Grant Ave         Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
 9832   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   345 SHERIDAN AVE      PALO ALTO      CA   94306    1
12238   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   220 COLLEGE AVE       PALO ALTO      CA   94306    1
10700   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   449 College Ave       Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
 9980   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   317 Leland Ave        Palo Alto      CA   94306    2
10189   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   360 Sheridan          Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
 9833   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   172 Park Ave          Palo Alto      CA   94306-   1
                                                                                  1107
 9766   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   328 Oxford Avenue     Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
10807   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   306 Grant Ave         Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
11397   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   411 Stanford Ave      Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
10790   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   315 Sheridan Ave      Palo Alto      CA   94306    2
10681   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   395 leland avenue     Palo alto      CA   94306    1
10835   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   291 Stanford Ave.     Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
10532   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   1837 Park Blvd.       Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
10432   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   469 Grant Avenue      Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
10234   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2160 Yale St          Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
11735   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   425 Sherman Ave.      Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
11469   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   415 Oxford Avenue        Palo Alto        CA   94306    1
10737   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2060 Park Blvd           palo alto        CA   94306    1
10748   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   159 California Avenue    Palo Alto        CA   94306    1
10533   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   359 leland ave.          palo alto        CA   94306    1
10177   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   245 College Ave.         Palo Alto        CA   94306    1
10744   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   411 COLLEGE AVE          PALO ALTO        CA   94306    1
 9942   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   365 College Ave          Palo Alto        CA   94306    2
10657   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   429 College Avenue       Palo Alto        CA   94306    1
 9486   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   380 Conil Way            Portola Valley   CA   94028    1
11072   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   245 Leland Ave           Palo Alto        CA   94306    1
 9869   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2508 Birch St            Palo Alto        CA   94306    1
11994   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   311 Sheridan Ave.        Palo Alto        CA   94306    1
 9789   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   1763 Park Blvd           Palo Alto        CA   94306    1
10973   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   375 LELAND AVE           PALO ALTO        CA   94306    3
10520   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   408 Grant Avenue         Palo Alto        CA   94306    1
10600   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2011 Park Blvd           Palo Alto        CA   94306    1
10660   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2005 Park blvd           palo alto        CA   94306    2
 9827   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   335 College Av           Palo Alto        CA   94306    1
11475   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   411 College Avenue       PALO ALTO        CA   94306    1
 9964   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   261 Stanford Avenue      Palo Alto        CA   94306    2
 9616   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2557 Park Blvd           Palo Alto        CA   94306    1
10642   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   231 Stanford Avenue      Palo Alto        CA   94306    2
 9758   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   334 College Ave          Palo Alto        CA   94306    1
10696   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   164 Park Ave             Palo Alto        CA   94306-   1
                                                                                       1107
11840   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   305 College Ave          Palo Alto        CA   94306    1
10740   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   397 College Ave          Palo Alto        CA   94306    1
11282   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   360 sheridan ave         palo alto        CA   94306    1
11541   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   309 Grant Ave            Palo Alto        CA   94306    1
 9889   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2431 Ash St.             Palo Alto        CA   94306    1
10847   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   334 College Ave          Palo Alto        CA   94306    1
 9657   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   1691 El Camino Real      Palo Alto        CA   94306    2
12340   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   360 Sheridan Ave         Palo Alto        CA   94306    1
10852   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   390 leland ave. Apt A    Palo alto        CA   94306    1
 9985   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   354 Leland Ave           Palo Alto        CA   94306    1
 9720   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   469 Grant Avenue         Palo Alto        CA   94306    1
 9767   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   351 Stanford Avenue      Palo Alto        CA   94306    1
11685   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   435 SHERIDAN AVE         PALO ALTO        CA   94306-   1
                                                                                       2044
10325   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   434 Stanford Avenue      Palo Alto        CA   94306    1
 9859   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   201 Stanford             Palo Alto        CA   94306    4
10002   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2431 Ash Street          Palo Alto        CA   94306    1
10860   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   360 sheridan ave. #102   palo alto        CA   94306    1
10108   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   447 College Avenue       Palo Alto        CA   94306    1
10097   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   330 Stanford Ave.        Palo Alto        CA   94306    1
 9692   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   1895 Park Blvd           PALO ALTO        CA   94306    2
10471   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   456 Grant Avenue         Palo Alto        CA   94306    1
10759   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   315 College Avenue       Palo Alto        CA   94306    1
10522   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   1874 Park Blvd           Palo Alto        CA   94306-   1
                                                                                       1111
10850   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   412 leland               palo alto        CA   94306    1
10567   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2105 Birch St            Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
10511   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   1820 Ash St              Palo Alto      CA   94306    2
11145   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2120 Ash Street          Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
12058   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   443 1/2 Leland Ave       Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
10283   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   260 Stanford Avenue      Palo Alto      CA   94306    2
11843   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2565 Park Blvd.          Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
12018   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   432 COLLEGE AVE          Palo Alto CA   CA   94306    1
11004   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   360 Sheridan Avenue      Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
11017   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   1737 Park Blvd           Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
11161   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2581 Park Blvd           Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
11828   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   404 OXFORD AVE           PALO ALTO      CA   94306    1
10192   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   153 Park Ave             Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
10837   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   482 Oxford Ave           Palo Alto      CA   94306    2
10364   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   437 College Ave          Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
10699   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   410 Sheridan Ave.        Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
11624   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   455 Grant Ave            Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
10037   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2145 Birch Street        Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
10936   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   310 leland               palo alto      CA   94306    1
10866   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   360 Sheridan Ave.        Palo Alto      CA   94306    2
10929   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   455 Grant Ave Apt 12     Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
10352   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   1850 Ash St              Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
11299   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2579 Park Blvd           Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
10826   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   425 Grant Avenue         Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
11943   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   408 Grant Ave            Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
11136   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2143 Park Blvd           Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
11023   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   376 College Ave Apt 7    Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
10503   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   121 Park Ave             Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
10454   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   271 Stanford Avenue      Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
 9813   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   245 College Ave          Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
10694   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   435 SHERIDAN AVE         PALO ALTO      CA   94306    1
10580   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   334 Leland Avenue        Palo Alto      CA   94306    2
 9888   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2561 Park Bl             Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
10195   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   412 College Ave          Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
10742   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   425 Grant Ave.           Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
10008   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   425 Grant Avenue         Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
10655   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   263 Oxford Ave           Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
10616   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   443 Oxford Avenue        Palo Alto      CA   94306    2
 9630   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   1769 Park Blvd           Palo Alto      CA   94306    2
11084   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2053 Park Blvd           Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
 9797   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   784 Ponderosa ave        Sunnyvale      CA   94086    1
10724   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   469 Grant Avenue Apt L   Palo Alto      CA   94306-   1
                                                                                     1821
11329   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   322 College Ave          Palo Alto      CA   94306-   1
                                                                                     1517
 9891   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   322 Stanford Ave.        Palo Alto      CA   94306    2
10622   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2140 Ash st              PALO ALTO      CA   94306    2
11020   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   376 College Ave          Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
11177   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   245 College Ave          Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
10781   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   285 Oxford avenue        Palo alto      CA   94306    1
10044   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   360 Sheridan Ave         Palo Alto      CA   943066   1
11418   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   410 Sheridan Ave.        Palo Alto      CA   94306    1
11153   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   P.O. Box 361243         Milpitas    CA   95036-   1
                                                                                 1243
10692   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   360 College Ave         Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
11075   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2512 Birch St.          Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9814   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   285 College Ave Apt A   Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10144   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   424 College Ave.        Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10623   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2079 park Blvd          Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
 9905   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   143 Park Ave            Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10590   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   343 Oxford Ave.         Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9702   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   363 Stanford Ave.       Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
 9871   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   351 Leland Ave          Palo Alto   CA   94306-   1
                                                                                 1128
10857   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   360 Sheridan Ave        Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
11080   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2575 Park Blvd.         Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9863   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2577 Park Blvd          Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10598   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   1970 Birch St           Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10497   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   421 Oxford Avenue       Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10877   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   1851 Park Blvd.         Palo Alto   CA   94306    3
10273   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   410 Sheridan Ave        Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10569   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   360 Sheridan Ave        Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10474   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   1863 Park Blvd          Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10207   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   315 Stanford Ave        Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9606   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   254 College Ave Apt E   Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10632   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   343 Stanford Avenue     Palo Alto   CA   94306-   2
                                                                                 1147
 9769   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   1830 Birch Street       Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9625   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   307 Sheridan Avenue     Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9780   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   1850 Park Blvd          Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10047   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2171 El Camino Real     Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10210   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   342 Oxford Ave          Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
 9912   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   432 Stanford Ave.       Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10524   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   330 Grant Ave           Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9974   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   302 College Avenue      Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10529   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   1825 Park Blvd          Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10538   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2150 Park Blvd          Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10473   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   383 College Ave         Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10617   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2040 Ash Street         Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10217   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   455 Grant Avenue        Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
 9825   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   425 Grant Ave.          Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10552   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   1980 ASH STREET         PALO ALTO   CA   94306-   1
                                                                                 1114
11579   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   360 Sheridan Ave        Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9706   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   234 Oxford Avenue       Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
11874   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2585 Park blvd          Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
11542   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   432 College Ave.        Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
11028   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   360 College Avenue      Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10361   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   1862 Ash Street         Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10668   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   417 college avenue      palo alto   CA   94306    2
 9911   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   1901 Birch Street       Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
11039   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   120 Park Ave            Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10756   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2454 Ash St.            Palo Alto   CA   94306    3
11009   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   345 Sheridan Ave                  PALO ALTO   CA   94306    1
11211   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2431 Ash Street, Apt 122          Palo Al     CA   94306    1
10510   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   1731 Park Blvd                    Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9678   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   325 College Ave                   Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9641   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   419 Leland Avenue                 Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
11212   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   435 Sheridan Ave                  Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
11155   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   376 College Ave                   Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10788   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   455 grant ave                     Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10068   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   280 Stanford Avenue               Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10487   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2091 Park Boulevard               Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10508   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   360 sheridan ave                  palo alto   CA   94306    1
10010   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   425 Grant Ave Apt 23              Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10140   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   245 College Ave Apt B             Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10516   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2431 Ash St #114                  Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
11571   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   425 grant avenue                  palo alto   CA   94306    1
11074   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   443 college avenue                palo alto   CA   94306-   1
                                                                                           1525
 9831   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   309 College Ave                   Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9862   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   323 Stanford Ave.                 Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9816   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   230 Leland Ave                    Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9628   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   243 Oxford Ave.                   Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10751   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   333 STANFORD AVE                  PALO ALTO   CA   94306    3
10130   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   334 College Avenue                Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10640   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   251 Stanford Ave                  Palo Alto   CA   94306    3
10035   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   456 College Ave.                  Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
11096   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   250 LELAND AVENUE                 PALO ALTO   CA   94306    1
10362   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   380 Oxford Ave                    Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10698   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   142 Park Ave                      Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10124   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   410 Sheridan Ave                  Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10930   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2115 Park Blvd                    Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
11119   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   410 sheridan ave                  Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9897   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   428 Stanford Ave                  Palo Alto   CA   94306-   2
                                                                                           1148
 9738   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   252 Stanford Ave.                 Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10315   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   1960 Park Blvd                    palo alto   CA   94306    1
10631   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   408 Leland Avenue                 Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9792   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   PO BOX                     1035   Palo Alto   CA   94302    1
11481   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   1757 Park Blvd.                   Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10911   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   141 S California Ave              Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
11126   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   345 Sheridan Ave                  Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10602   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   314 Stanford Ave                  Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10817   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   253 Oxford Ave                    Palo Alto   CA   94306-   1
                                                                                           1133
10219   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   223 Oxford                        Palo Alto   CA   94306    4
 9820   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   425 Grant Avenue                  Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
11038   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   2277 Park Blvd                    Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9772   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   355 College Ave.                  Palo Alto   CA   94306    3
10080   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   1824 Park Blvd.                   Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10571   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   370 Oxford Avenue                 Palo Alto   CA   94306-   1
                                                                                           1134
10957   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR   455 Grant Ave                     Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10717   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR    447 college ave           Palo Alto   CA   94306     1
10485   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR    464 Grant Ave.            Palo Alto   CA   94306     1
11561   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR    345 Sheridan Avenue       Palo Alto   CA   94306     1
10705   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR    390 leland ave            palo alto   CA   94306     1
10005   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR    359 Stanford Avenue       Palo Alto   CA   94306     1
11686   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR    2557 Park Boulevard       Palo Alto   CA   94306     1
11077   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR    325 Leland Avenue         Palo Alto   CA   94306     1
10117   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR    240 Leland Ave            Palo Alto   CA   94306     2
10077   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR    322 COLLEGE AVE           PALO ALTO   CA   94306     2
10111   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR    432 College Avenue        Palo Alto   CA   94306-    1
                                                                                    1530
 9906   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR    270 Stanford Ave          Palo Alto   CA   94306      1
10235   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR    360 Sheridan Avenue       Palo Alto   CA   94306      1
11653   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR    307 College Avenue        Palo Alto   CA   94306      2
12075   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR    435 Sheridan Avenue 108   Palo Alto   CA   94306      1
10004   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR    150 Park Ave              Palo Alto   CA   94306      1
10859   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR    360 Sheridan Ave.         Palo Alto   CA   94306      1
11116   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR    455 Grant Ave. Apt. 11    Palo Alto   CA   94306      1
10043   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR    2443 Ash St               Palo Alto   CA   94306      2
10674   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR    393 Stanford Ave.         Palo Alto   CA   94306      2
11793   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR    345 Sheridan Ave #207     Palo Alto   CA   94306      1
10260   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR    384 Stanford Ave          Palo Alto   CA   94306      1
10833   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR    455 grant ave, APT 8      Palo Alto   CA   94306      1
10680   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR    323 Oxford Ave            Palo Alto   CA   94306      1
11920   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR    200 Sheridan ave          Palo Alto   CA   94306      1
 9680   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR    254 College Ave Apt C     Palo Alto   CA   94306      1
11085   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR    360 Sheridan Avenue       Palo Alto   CA   94306      1
11929   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR    138 Park ave              Palo Alto   CA   94306      2
10628   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR    290 LELAND AVE            PALO ALTO   CA   94306      2
10839   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR    2458 Ash St               Palo Alto   CA   94306      1
10875   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR    2060 Birch Street         Palo Alto   CA   94306      1
10225   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR    2431 Ash St               Palo Alto   CA   94306      1
10714   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR    230 college Ave           Palo Alto   CA   94306      1
11526   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR    2031 Park Blvd            Palo Alto   CA   94306      1
10677   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR    305 College Ave           Palo Alto   CA   94306      2
 9913   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR    285 College Ave           Palo Alto   CA   94306      2
10489   Evergreen Park Resident   EPR    161 california            palo alto   CA   94306      1
                                                                                    EPR      566

10388   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   2585 Park Blvd.           Palo Alto   CA   94301     2
 9764   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   1805 El Camino Real       Palo Alto   CA   94306     2
10208   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   1805 El Camino Real       Palo Alto   CA   94306     2
 9685   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   163 Park Avenue           palo alto   CA   94306     2
10725   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   354 College Avenue        Palo Alto   CA   94306     2
 9305   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   277 College Ave.          Palo Alto   CA   94306     1
10851   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   410 leland                palo alto   CA   94306     2
 9645   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   396 Stanford Ave          Palo Alto   CA   94306     2
10551   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   359 Leland Ave.           Palo Alto   CA   94306     1
 9963   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   123 Sherman Avenue        Palo Alto   CA   94306     1
11156   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   425 Grant Ave             Palo Alto   CA   94306     1
11500   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   260 College Ave           Palo Alto   CA   94306     1
10500   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   446 Grant Ave                    Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10805   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   348 grant avenue                 Palo alto   CA   94306    1
 9744   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   1810 Birch St.                   Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10338   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   290 Stanford Ave                 Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
12121   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   360 sheridan avenue              Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10701   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   149 S. California Ave.           Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9629   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   178 park ave                     palo alto   CA   94306    1
11331   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   360 sheridan ave                 Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10007   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   446 College Ave                  Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9791   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   1933 Birch STreet                Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9457   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   435 Sheridan Ave Apt 302         Palo Alto   CA   94306-   1
                                                                                           2052
10252   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   390 College Avenue               Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10913   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   270 Leland Avenue                Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9602   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   1691 El Camino Real, Suite 100   Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
11348   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   395 Leland Avenue                Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
12022   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   210 College Ave                  Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9865   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   435 Sheridan Ave. #102           Palo Alto   CA   94306-   2
                                                                                           2044
10695   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   1815 Park Blvd                   Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10596   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   332 Oxford Ave                   Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10729   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   360 College Avenue               Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9740   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   423 Oxford Ave                   Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10020   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   374 Stanford Ave                 Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10425   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   326 Leland Ave.                  Palo Alto   CA   94306-   1
                                                                                           1127
10422   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   390 Oxford Avenue                PALO ALTO   CA   94306    2
 9972   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   469 Grant Avenue                 Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10688   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   373 Oxford Avenue                Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10535   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   137 Park Avenue                  Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10545   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   129 Park Ave.                    Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
 9745   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   1691 El Camino Real              Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10588   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   410 STANFORD AVENUE              PALO ALTO   CA   94306    2
                                                                          CA
 9829   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   280 Oxford Avenue                Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10298   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   222 Oxford Avenue                Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10841   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   455 Grant Ave                    Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10880   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   455 Grant Avenue                 Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9856   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   2130 Birch St.                   Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
 9870   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   1691 El Camino Real              Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10103   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   397 College Ave                  Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10564   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   344 Leland Ave                   Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
 9835   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   2150 Birch St                    Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10610   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   1866 Park Blvd                   Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9611   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   420 Cambridge Avenue, Unit 1     Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10984   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   360 Sheridan Ave                 Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10675   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   231 College Ave.                 Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9586   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   322 College Ave                  Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9724   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   1681 El Camino Real              Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10836   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   466 Grant Avenue                 Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10330   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   2581 Park Blvd.                  Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10574   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   381 Oxford Avenue       Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
 9765   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   214 Oxford Ave          Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9668   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   220 College Ave Apt A   Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9824   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   360 Stanford Ave        Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
11083   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   311 Bryant St           palo alto   CA   94301    1
10627   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   381 Stanford Ave        Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
11382   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   250 Hamilton ave        palo alto   CA   94301    2
 9899   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   1795 Park Blvd          Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10041   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   1789 Park Blvd          Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10123   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   1805 Park Blvd          Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
 9946   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   280 College Avenue      Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10534   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   274 College Ave         Palo Alto   CA   94306-   1
                                                                                  1513
10673   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   391 Oxford Avenue       Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10894   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   1795 El Camino Real     Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9847   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   333 Leland Avenue       Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10437   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   431 Stanford Ave        Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10159   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   186 Park Avenue         Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10581   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   360 Leland Ave          Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
11846   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   391 College Avenue      Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
11125   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   345 Sheridan Avenue     Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9923   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   290 Oxford Avenue       Palo Alto   CA   94306    3
11015   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   360 sheridan ave        palo alto   CA   94306    1
 9980   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   317 Leland Ave          Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9833   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   172 Park Ave            Palo Alto   CA   94306-   1
                                                                                  1107
10681   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   395 leland avenue       Palo alto   CA   94306    1
10835   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   291 Stanford Ave.       Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10748   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   159 California Avenue   Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10533   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   359 leland ave.         palo alto   CA   94306    1
 9942   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   365 College Ave         Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
 9789   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   1763 Park Blvd          Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10973   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   375 LELAND AVE          PALO ALTO   CA   94306    2
10660   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   2005 Park blvd          palo alto   CA   94306    2
 9828   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   345 Sheridan            Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9967   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   2569 Park Blvd. T105    Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
 9964   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   261 Stanford Avenue     Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10696   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   164 Park Ave            Palo Alto   CA   94306-   1
                                                                                  1107
10740   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   397 College Ave         Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
11282   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   360 sheridan ave        palo alto   CA   94306    1
 9657   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   1691 El Camino Real     Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10852   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   390 leland ave. Apt A   Palo alto   CA   94306    3
 9767   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   351 Stanford Avenue     Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9859   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   201 Stanford            Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10097   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   330 Stanford Ave.       Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10759   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   315 College Avenue      Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10522   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   1874 Park Blvd          Palo Alto   CA   94306-   1
                                                                                  1111
10850   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   412 leland              palo alto   CA   94306    4
10567   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   2105 Birch St           Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
11004   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   360 Sheridan Avenue   Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
11017   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   1737 Park Blvd        Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10364   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   437 College Ave       Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
11624   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   455 Grant Ave         Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
11299   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   2579 Park Blvd        Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
11202   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   2151 park blvd        palo alto   CA   94306    1
11136   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   2143 Park Blvd        Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10503   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   121 Park Ave          Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10580   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   334 Leland Avenue     Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
 9630   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   1769 Park Blvd        Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
11498   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   420 Stanford Ave      Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
11592   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   245 College Ave       Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9891   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   322 Stanford Ave.     Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
11020   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   376 College Ave       Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10781   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   285 Oxford avenue     Palo alto   CA   94306    1
10623   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   2079 park Blvd        Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9905   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   143 Park Ave          Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10590   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   343 Oxford Ave.       Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
 9702   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   363 Stanford Ave.     Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
11445   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   360 College Avenue    Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10598   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   1970 Birch St         Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10877   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   1851 Park Blvd.       Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10474   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   1863 Park Blvd        Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10632   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   343 Stanford Avenue   Palo Alto   CA   94306-   2
                                                                                1147
 9769   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   1830 Birch Street     Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9912   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   432 Stanford Ave.     Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9974   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   302 College Avenue    Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10538   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   2150 Park Blvd        Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10473   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   383 College Ave       Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10617   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   2040 Ash Street       Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10217   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   455 Grant Avenue      Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
 9825   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   425 Grant Ave.        Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10668   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   417 college avenue    palo alto   CA   94306    2
11039   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   120 Park Ave          Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10638   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   225 Leland            Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10510   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   1731 Park Blvd        Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
 9641   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   419 Leland Avenue     Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10788   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   455 grant ave         Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10487   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   2091 Park Boulevard   Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10508   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   360 sheridan ave      palo alto   CA   94306    1
10516   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   2431 Ash St #114      Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9831   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   309 College Ave       Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9816   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   230 Leland Ave        Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
10130   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   334 College Avenue    Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10640   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   251 Stanford Ave      Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
11096   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   250 LELAND AVENUE     PALO ALTO   CA   94306    1
10362   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   380 Oxford Ave        Palo Alto   CA   94306    2
11283   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   2585 Park Blvd        Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
10124   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   410 Sheridan Ave      Palo Alto   CA   94306    1
 9897   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   428 Stanford Ave      Palo Alto   CA   94306-   2
                                                                                                1148
 9738   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   252 Stanford Ave.                     Palo Alto   CA   94306     2
 9792   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   PO BOX                         1035   Palo Alto   CA   94302     1
11481   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   1757 Park Blvd.                       Palo Alto   CA   94306     2
10911   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   141 S California Ave                  Palo Alto   CA   94306     1
10602   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   314 Stanford Ave                      Palo Alto   CA   94306     1
10817   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   253 Oxford Ave                        Palo Alto   CA   94306-    1
                                                                                                1133
11038   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   2277 Park Blvd                        Palo Alto   CA   94306     2
10295   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   2581Park Blvd.                        Palo Alto   CA   94306     2
10080   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   1824 Park Blvd.                       Palo Alto   CA   94306     1
10571   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   370 Oxford Avenue                     Palo Alto   CA   94306-    2
                                                                                                1134
10717   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   447 college ave                       Palo Alto   CA   94306     1
10705   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   390 leland ave                        palo alto   CA   94306     2
10005   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   359 Stanford Avenue                   Palo Alto   CA   94306     1
11077   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   325 Leland Avenue                     Palo Alto   CA   94306     1
10117   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   240 Leland Ave                        Palo Alto   CA   94306     2
10111   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   432 College Avenue                    Palo Alto   CA   94306-    2
                                                                                                1530
10674   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   393 Stanford Ave.                     Palo Alto   CA   94306      2
10833   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   455 grant ave, APT 8                  Palo Alto   CA   94306      1
10628   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   290 LELAND AVE                        PALO ALTO   CA   94306      2
10714   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   230 college Ave                       Palo Alto   CA   94306      1
10489   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRH   161 california                        palo alto   CA   94306      1
                                                                                                EPRH     266

12121   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRS   360 sheridan avenue                   Palo Alto   CA   94306     2
 9681   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRS   200 Sheridan Ave                      Palo Alto   CA   94306     7
 9745   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRS   1691 El Camino Real                   Palo Alto   CA   94306     1
10324   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRS   2160 Ash Street                       Palo Alto   CA   94306     1
 9611   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRS   420 Cambridge Avenue, Unit 1          Palo Alto   CA   94306     5
 9724   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRS   1681 El Camino Real                   Palo Alto   CA   94306    10
10574   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRS   381 Oxford Avenue                     Palo Alto   CA   94306     5
10627   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRS   381 Stanford Ave                      Palo Alto   CA   94306     6
11446   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRS   158 Park Ave                          Palo Alto   CA   94306     1
 9828   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRS   345 Sheridan                          Palo Alto   CA   94306     3
 9616   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRS   2557 Park Blvd                        Palo Alto   CA   94306    10
10522   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRS   1874 Park Blvd                        Palo Alto   CA   94306-    3
                                                                                                1111
11418   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRS   410 Sheridan Ave.                     Palo Alto   CA   94306     2
10207   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRS   315 Stanford Ave                      Palo Alto   CA   94306     1
 9606   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRS   254 College Ave Apt E                 Palo Alto   CA   94306     3
10632   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRS   343 Stanford Avenue                   Palo Alto   CA   94306-   11
                                                                                                1147
 9641   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRS   419 Leland Avenue                     Palo Alto   CA   94306     4
 9816   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRS   230 Leland Ave                        Palo Alto   CA   94306     2
 9738   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRS   252 Stanford Ave.                     Palo Alto   CA   94306    10
10117   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRS   240 Leland Ave                        Palo Alto   CA   94306     5
10674   Evergreen Park Resident   EPRS   393 Stanford Ave.                     Palo Alto   CA   94306     5
                                                                                                EPRS     97
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 10:06 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Howard, Adam
Sent:                              Tuesday, January 09, 2018 3:39 PM
To:                                Debby Ruskin; Council, City
Cc:                                O'Kane, Kristen
Subject:                           RE: Tennis and Pickleball in Palo Alto


Good Afternoon Ms. Ruskin
Thank you for your email and for passing along your comments regarding the use of tennis courts at Mitchell Park for
Pickleball.

Staff, along with the Parks and Recreation Commission are still evaluating the possibility of converting Mitchell courts 5,
6 and 7 into designated Pickleball courts. At this time, no decision has been made. We still need to have more
conversations with all who would be affected by converting the tennis courts into pickleball courts. Staff will make a
recommendation after considering all of the information. If staff recommends pursuing the project, staff would return
to the Parks and Rec Commission and ultimately City Council for approval.

I will ensure that you are notified of future public meetings related to this topic, and you are always welcome to come
and share your comments publicly with the Parks and Rec Commission. The next meeting is January 23rd at 7pm in
Council Chambers.

If you would like to discuss further, please feel free to contact me at the number below.

Kindest regards,


              Adam Howard | Community Services Manager | Mitchell Park Community Center
              Community Services Department
              3700 Middlefield Road| Palo Alto, CA 94303
              O: 650.329.2192 F: 650.251.9109
              E-mail: Adam.howard@cityofpaloalto.org
            Please think of the environment before printing this email – Thank you!



From: Debby Ruskin [mailto:debby@ruskingardens.com]
Sent: Tuesday, January 09, 2018 2:36 PM
To: Howard, Adam; Council, City
Subject: Tennis and Pickleball in Palo Alto

As a Palo Alto resident and enthusiastic athlete who has played tennis all my life, I have enjoyed hearing about
and seeing the rise in popularity of Pickleball. I am certainly not against building new Pickleball courts in Palo
Alto, but was MOST saddened to learn of the city’s intent to eliminate lighted tennis courts in favor of
Pickleball courts at Mitchell Park.
About 6 months ago, I was shocked to find some of the tennis courts at Mitchell “re-lined” by Pickleball players
without authorization. Tennis was still possible on the courts, but the lines were confusing. So I know first hand
how exuberant and enthusiastic the Pickleball community can be, but it doesn’t seem appropriate that their loud
and excited voices are given more consideration than those of the tennis community which hasn’t necessarily
been aware of our need to protect PA tennis courts that we didn’t know were threatened.
                                                              1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 10:06 AM

However, tennis has been accommodated at Mitchell for a very long time, and the courts are well used. Late
afternoon almost always has a queue on the lighted courts especially!
The Pickleball decision seems extreme and abrupt, and I would like the city to pause and back-up so the tennis
community has more opportunity to be included in conversations that affect access to tennis courts in Palo
Alto.
Has the city considered other sights that might accommodate PA’s Pickleball needs? How about adding lighting
to existing tennis courts or building Pickleball courts around town: Gunn, Paly, Hopkins, Rinconada, Greer,
Eleanor, Heritage, Bay lands, evening rental of commercial parking lots, etc.
Are we working with private individuals or neighboring cities to meet the needs and popularity of Pickleball?

Please give more consideration to this topic before making the decision to permanently eliminate tennis courts,
especially lighted tennis courts.
Thank you.


Debby Ruskin
174 Walter Hays Drive
Palo Alto, CA 94303
c-380-1598




                                                       2
                                                                                  Please Contact the Clerk’s Office
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 9:59 AM                           to View Additional Pages,
                                                                                  Attachments, or Images Related
                                                                                          to this Document
Carnahan, David

From:                              Keith Ferrell <ferrell.keith@gmail.com>
Sent:                              Tuesday, January 09, 2018 8:29 PM
To:                                Keene, James
Cc:                                Shepherd, Nancy; Kamhi, Philip; Christine Shambora; Jim McFall; Council, City; Tom
                                   Vlasic
Subject:                           Re: Why a consent item?



Feels like the outreach is so staff can check off an item and add it to the consent calendar. That's not the intent
of "outreach". Don't waste our time by doing ancillary outreach. The staff report was full of inaccuracies. If
this is the type of work that council depends on to make decisions than the city is being sorely mismanaged.

The whole thing needs a good scrubbing. There is NO reason why this should be returned to council prior to
the conclusion of the one-year pilot program. Any efforts to fast track this is a slap in the face to residents and
council.

On Tue, Jan 9, 2018 at 8:20 PM, Keene, James <James.Keene@cityofpaloalto.org> wrote:
 My understand, there is another outreach scheduled for tomorrow, Jan 10. Well in advance if Council meeting.

 Jim

 Get Outlook for iOS

 From: Nancy Shepherd <nlshep@pacbell.net>
 Sent: Tuesday, January 9, 2018 8:16:53 PM
 To: Keith Ferrell
 Cc: Kamhi, Philip; Christine Shambora; Jim McFall; Council, City; Tom Vlasic
 Subject: Re: Why a consent item?

 I agree with all your points here, and why I tried to flag it early to have staff pull the item. Thankfully it was,
 sadly it was hard to do...

 Sent from my iPad

 On Jan 9, 2018, at 8:14 PM, Keith Ferrell <ferrell.keith@gmail.com> wrote:

           It's not a return to council. It's a major change to a resolution that has never had a
           chance to take effect. This is not a "follow-up" item.

           Why go through the process of getting a public council vote only to make major
           changes and try to sneak them through council without those being affected getting
           notified. It's a bait and switch.
           According to Merriam-Webster:

           2: the ploy of offering a person something desirable to gain favor (such as
           political support) then thwarting expectations with something less
           desirable

                                                            1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 9:59 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                            Tom Vlasic <tom@tomvlasic.com>
Sent:                            Wednesday, January 10, 2018 8:25 AM
To:                              Keene, James
Cc:                              Shepherd, Nancy; Keith Ferrell; Kamhi, Philip; Christine Shambora; Jim McFall; Council,
                                 City; Gitelman, Hillary
Subject:                         Re: Why a consent item?



Good morning Mr. Keene,

Relative to the meeting tonight, can you please ensure that planning and transportation staff have all the details
for zoning parking requirements for the businesses pushing for added parking in our Southgate
neighborhood. This should include clarity on any non conforming uses, parking requirements set with any
conditional use permits approved, and any pre existing uses that are not consistent with current zoning
standards.

 In most cases business uses that have gone on to sites not specifically designed or developed for the use have
had to have special zoning approval, e.g., CUP, to ensure site and neighborhood compatibility. If they want to
use off site areas for parking, this typically requires a special zoning approval by the planning commission with
full surrounding neighborhood opportunity to provide input, like Castillija School. And zoning ordinances need
to provide specific opportunity for the staff and commission to consider use of off site areas if the use can’t
satisfy parking needs/requirements on site. Has all of this been documented for the businesses wanting to use
our neighborhood to satisfy their parking deficiencies that typically must be met on their own site?

Keith Farrell has spent considerable time raising important questions, and doing research that should be the
burden of city staff. His efforts and questions as well as those above need proper attention by staff. This is not,
and should not be a competition between residents and businesses. Southgate is a residential neighborhood. We
did our homework on the RPP process. This should not be undermined because of problems a business is
having due to an inadequate site. That is their problem to work out with staff consistent with zoning standards,
CUP requirements, etc.

As others have stressed, please allow the RPP program to mature over the first full year before any changes are
considered. This was, in any case, the council commitment to the neighborhood when the program was
approved.

Best regards,
Tom Vlasic
Mariposa Avenue


Sent from my iPhone

On Jan 9, 2018, at 8:20 PM, Keene, James <James.Keene@CityofPaloAlto.org> wrote:

        My understand, there is another outreach scheduled for tomorrow, Jan 10. Well in advance if
        Council meeting.


                                                           4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 9:59 AM
       Jim

       Get Outlook for iOS

       From: Nancy Shepherd <nlshep@pacbell.net>
       Sent: Tuesday, January 9, 2018 8:16:53 PM
       To: Keith Ferrell
       Cc: Kamhi, Philip; Christine Shambora; Jim McFall; Council, City; Tom Vlasic
       Subject: Re: Why a consent item?

       I agree with all your points here, and why I tried to flag it early to have staff pull the
       item. Thankfully it was, sadly it was hard to do...

       Sent from my iPad

       On Jan 9, 2018, at 8:14 PM, Keith Ferrell <ferrell.keith@gmail.com> wrote:

               It's not a return to council. It's a major change to a resolution that has
               never had a chance to take effect. This is not a "follow-up" item.

               Why go through the process of getting a public council vote only to make
               major changes and try to sneak them through council without those being
               affected getting notified. It's a bait and switch.
               According to Merriam-Webster:

               2: the ploy of offering a person something desirable to gain
               favor (such as political support) then thwarting expectations
               with something less desirable

               That is EXACTLY what staff is trying to do. What exactly did Hilary
               believe the timing issues to be? How could there possibly be any
               timing issues? That's a ridiculous excuse.

               All staff is doing now is setting up a couple fluff one-hour meetings
               so they can tell council that they met with residents and businesses
               and try to get it on the Consent Calendar again. That is wholly
               unacceptable. Even to have the Evergreen Park/Mayfield RPP
               discussed at the same time as the Southgate RPP is improper. To
               equate the two and have them both put in the same report is
               misleading.

               I understand that council does not have time to hold hearings on
               everything. That is exactly why these should both be moved until
               after the one-year pilot programs have completed. Why is staff
               wasting the council's time? In effect, they are telling council that
               what they approved is unacceptable to staff and staff wants to
               change what council approved. Maybe we should be voting for staff
               members instead of council members if they are the ones
               determining what is best for the city.


                                                           5
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 9:59 AM
              Which committee(s) would have seen this and who from the council
              is on that committee? What misinformation were they given by staff
              that would lead them to think this was well thought out and
              researched by staff?



              On Jan 9, 2018 7:33 PM, "Nancy Shepherd" <nlshep@pacbell.net> wrote:
               Since the item itself was a return to council, consent calendar is appropriate. The
               topic was decided already, and this was a follow up item. However, since staff
               never reached out to the stakeholders (us + businesses) I told staff I was shocked
               to see it before council, and shocked further that it was on consent.

               Had staff held a stakeholder meeting and negotiations were agreed between
               parties, then consent calendar would be appropriate. The idea is to have some
               rigor via subcommittee, or committee etc so council can vote without a
               resolution that is bettered.

               I reached out to Hillary (I didn’t copy everyone on some of my communication
               with staff, and did not copy council either because I wanted staff to pull the item
               themselves. Eventually the CM pulled it) directly and basically begged her to
               pull the item. She felt there was a timing issues, and needed to hustle it through.
               I tried again, explaining that if they didn’t pull the item Southgate would go
               crazy. I remember saying something about how I was trying to save them from
               themselves by pulling it and holding the stakeholder meeting, getting an
               agreement and the have council vote. She was dug in.

               Getting back to consent calendar, items are usually scrubbed in Committee or
               ongoing items that are routine ( think contracts for sampling bayland water next
               to waste treatment plan). Council simply does not have the time to hold hearings
               on everything staff works on.

               Sent from my iPad

               On Jan 9, 2018, at 6:52 PM, Keith Ferrell <ferrell.keith@gmail.com> wrote:

                      Philip,
                      I was looking through the city's Public Meeting Protocol and
                      came across the topic "Consent Calendar Categories". I don't see
                      where any changes to the RPP program would fit under a Consent
                      Calendar item. I have copied the one that is most likely to be
                      relevant.

                      It reads:

                      J. Consent Calendar Categories:

                      The consent calendar shall be presented in 5 categories in the
                      following order:

                                                        6
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 9:59 AM
                      1) Ordinances and Resolutions The following ordinances and
                      resolutions may appear on a consent calendar:
                       Second Reading (passage and adoption) of Ordinances.  a
                      resolution which are ceremonial in nature.
                       Ordinances or resolutions that implement a prior Council policy
                      direction in the manner contemplated by the Council's previous
                      actions, in the Adopted Budget (including the Capital
                      Improvement Program and especially in the department key
                      plans); and the Council Top Priority Workplan, among other
                      sources..
                       Budget amendment ordinances that accept funding such as
                      grants or gifts, provided Council has previously approved the
                      activity or program.
                       Resolutions approving funding applications, such as grants or
                      loans, provided that the program or activity has been previously
                      approved by Council.

                      Can you please point me to the verbage which allows this to even
                      be placed on a Consent Calendar?

                      Nancy and Tom, you two are far more aware of the ins and outs
                      of council meetings. Maybe you can help, as well.

                      I have copied a link to the document. The relevant section starts
                      on page 9 of the document, 2.4 subsection J

                      https://www.cityofpaloalto.org/civicax/filebank/documents/34330

                      Thanks
                      Keith




                                                      7
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/8/2018 9:51 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Maryjane Marcus <maryjane.marcus@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Monday, January 08, 2018 9:40 AM
To:                             Council, City
Cc:                             Gitelman, Hillary
Subject:                        request to add 2100 El Camino to Jan 22nd agenda
Attachments:                    2180_How do we ensure public benefit in grocery space_1215 draft.pdf



Dear City Council,

As you know, the College Terrace Market is closing this week or has closed. This was a situation many of us in
the neighborhood foresaw, and we want to revisit the contingency plans now that is has occurred.

I request you add the College Terrace Market to the City Council agenda as soon as possible, such as
January 22nd. I hope the City Council will recognize the Owner is not committed to keeping a grocer, and
that the City Council consider amending the PC so that the grocer's space be given to the City or a community
non-profit for public benefit uses for the greater College Terrace communities.

OWNER QUESTIONABLE COMMITMENT TO GROCER:

   1. Miki Werness was never an owner, just a manager and he was let go a few months into the project when
      the Owner/Investors had no grocery experience and may have been friends of George Smailey;
   2. Rent is $22,500 currently and they were unwilling to waive it from what I understand.
   3. The layout was mainly to benefit the office tenant. The location of the grocer reduces its likelihood of
      succeeding and limits its access to College Terrace. You can't turn left off El Camino to get there and
      the entrance is not where anyone in College Terrace ever walks. The public outdoor space was never
      used because of how unpleasant it is to sit so close to El Camino.
   4. The signage was small.
   5. The Tenant above was allowed to have a cafeteria when the owner had said they would not have a
      cafeteria and would use the space.
   6. They required them to open before Summer when Fall was a much better time to start a grocery store
      according to the Manager.

PUBLIC BENEFIT: The reason a public benefit is required is because the City gave the owner millions of
dollars in benefit (it can be calculated) by rezoning, and that benefit to the owner needed to be balanced with a
benefit to the community. What we need is a place to gather, to see each other, and to do community-benefit
activities.

I urge you to revisit the question of a public benefit unless the Owner can demonstrate they have a ready tenant
who can help that place thrive under the conditions they set. And what if it is hard for a grocer to succeed in
that location, how do we determine an alternative public benefit at this stage? The financial benefit to the
owner for the PC must be calculated and considered in this evaluation.

Please read my 2 emails sent to you in December prior to approving the PC 2 weeks before it was expiring, and
I've attached what I could identify from those meetings regarding public benefit besides a grocer.

Sincerely,
                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/8/2018 9:51 AM
Mary Jane Marcus


---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Maryjane Marcus <maryjane.marcus@gmail.com>
Date: Mon, Dec 8, 2014 at 1:14 PM
Subject: 2180 El Camino, Palo Alto -- limit Motion to extension of deadline OR let REZONING lapse.
To: city.council@cityofpaloalto.org


Dear Palo Alto City Council,

I was the first person to testify last week about 2180 El Camino, sharing with you my urging that you insert
language to ensure the PUBLIC BENEFIT lasts in perpetuity. I remember sitting there afterwards and thinking,
1) wow, the City has much bigger issues than whether a grocery store is a public benefit (so maybe your staff
can do more on this) and 2) this is turning out to take lots of time and be a bad deal for many.

Think about it....whatever you decide on the public benefit for 2180 El Camino will be in place for 50-100
years. Let's FIX IT NOW, even though this is a pain!

Please consider this:
How can you insert language to ensure a public benefit in this project in perpetuity? (a fine is not enough)

Why is it important to take steps to ensure a lasting public benefit?

      Can you realistically predict a grocer will be in that space for that long? We don't know how the market
       or world will change. We especially can't guarantee that the grocer is extremely comparable to JJ&F.
      A fine, even $2000/day, does not address the zoning violation or correct it. It just issues a penalty. A
       penalty does is not zoning compliance.
      People wanted JJ&F. A grocer would be nice, but it's not clear, 5 years later, that a grocery store is the
       primary public benefit value the community wants. I know you hate to read that, but it's possible.

Here are options:
A) Please do not pass the Motion as you drafted last week. The sentiment of giving clear guidance is
helpful, but does not address the core issues with this project.
To ensure we have time to revisit these issues, just
     Extend the deadline to March 31st during which the public benefit agreement will be revisited between the
City and the Developer.
     Include terms of the extension by the end of December, 2014.

If you want to include language to support a public benefit in the current motion,
- Require that an acceptable grocer be found by X date, or the zoning will lapse. It's not that a grocer is not
possible, but it is not possible on the terms the Developer wants to offer (rent, etc).
- Require not just fines but a substitute public benefit (to be negotiated). You can't keep polluting, for instance,
and paying a fine. The pollution needs to stop, and a fine is paid. So if a grocer fails, a fine is paid and they
need to find a substitute public benefit.
- Any fines must be adjusted for inflation!




                                                          2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/8/2018 9:51 AM
B) Please offer revised language in the public benefit agreement (by the end of December). You have
already been revising the original ordinance. It's worth making this right now (or asking your staff to do their
best) or we will end up with something no one really wants.
Revise the public benefit agreement to:
- If it is to be a grocer, that there is flexibility in the qualification. (or do a quick survey to get an updated sense
of what would be valuable)
- Ensure that if the grocer fails, the public benefit is maintained with that square footage (or at least 5000
SF). This would have to be worked out.
- Any fines collected must be adjusted for cost of living and must go to the neighborhood in support of space-
related public benefit projects.

C) If you do not want to revise the Motion or public benefit agreement, let the Rezoning lapse.

Remember that the Developer is earning $5-7 million, if not more, because of this zoning change, and many of
those benefits need to come to the community. We are in dire need of public benefit, now more than ever.

Please advocate on our behalf! You are not a mediator between the public and the developer - Let's not make
this a bad deal for many. I cannot attend tonight because I am going to PreSchool Family but I am happy to talk
in more detail with anyone on your team. I know there are much bigger issues (like climate change, the
skyrocketing rents here) so I hope your staff can help with this, or I am happy to do what I can.

Warmly,
Mary Jane
4152699079




                            (do something my daughter will enjoy when she's grown!)


********
November 24, 2014

Dear City Council,

I've recently gotten involved in the 2180 El Camino location because I live 2 blocks from there and would really love to
make sure it offers real community benefit. I am still getting up to speed but I think a modification to the agreement could
make it much more easily enforceable.

Along with other Transition Palo Alto members, I am recommending the following:

1) Require that the 'public benefit' space at 2180 El Camino revert to the City of Palo Alto (for community space) at a
reduced rate if the grocery store fails.. Why?


                                                             3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/8/2018 9:51 AM
       This requirement will ensure a lasting community benefit. It would be much more enforceable and lasting than a
            grocery requirement. It is impossible to enforce a Landlord leasing to itself, as is the case with the plan for the
            grocery store. As you know, the 'public benefit' process is problematic and is currently under review because
            of some of its limitations.
       Market conditions make it difficult for a market to succeed, so we need a contingency plan that preserves a public
            benefit. Alma Plaza has taught us a lot about this issue.
       If the grocery store fails, low-cost or free community space is desperately needed in the Cal Ave area.

DETAILS:
Market conditions: When this agreement was made, it was 2009, JJ&F was still in business and we did not have the Alma
Plaza experience. Now there are other conditions (such as access) that may have led to Miki's market failing, but we
know here it is going to be very challenging for any sizable market to succeed. Trader Joe's has opened and taken
considerable business from Stanford students that JJ&F once had, and the community has come to rely on mollie stone's
and country sun as well now that JJ&F has been gone for several years under its original owner (and last year under its
subsequent).

Value of reverting to City for community space: If you establish a plan that the lease reverts to the City if the market fails,
we will be assured the building will have a lasting public benefit. There is a dire shortage of free/low cost community
space in the California Ave area. The College Terrace library is small and open only daytime hours, and many of us,
especially Transition Palo Alto, relied on WorldCentric (formerly at 2180 El Camino) for many film screenings, potlucks
and gatherings. The future of our community depends on community space to support public goods and the betterment of
the whole community. Transition Palo Alto has only been able to find church space far from CalTrain now that
WorldCentric has closed. It is important to have non-sectarian space.


OR

2) Revert to the original Neighborhood Commercial zoning which is more appropriate for this space and given current
market conditions.

Sincerely,
Mary Jane Marcus
College Terrace Resident & Transition Palo Alto Member
(415)269-9079




                                                               4
 TO:             The City of Palo Alto
 FROM:           Transition Palo Alto member Ma1y Jane Marcus, Coll         Ter      re ad nt
 ORAFTOf:         12/13/14
 SUBJECT:         liow to ensure a public berwfat at 2180 over the bu1ld111g's lire (50·100 y   r )

 Overview - Rezoning Requires Public Benefit (Grocery}
 2180 El Camino (a city block) was rezoned from neighborhood retail and hou ing (n I hborhood
 commercial) to primarily regional office space with ground noor retail. The Developer not only ot
 more square footage (20,000 SF) but also more profitable zoning ratios (regional office).

 This new zoni ng from the City hinges on the new space providing a public benefit to the community
 The idea is that ifthe developer is going to make additional money from the space, he/she also
 needs to give some of that back in the form of a community /public benefit

 The agreement is to have a grocer equivalent to Jl&F, and it looks like the Developer has identified a
 suitable candidate. The City took the groundbreaking step of negotiating a fine of $2000/day as a
 way to ensure the Developer's commitment to keeping a grocery store in place.

 Question - What if Grocery Store Fails? How do we ensure community· based public benefit?
 A Fine is Helpful but Not Sufficient
 What's going to happen if a grocery store fails and they do not find another grocery tenant?

 The current proposal is to fine the Developer daily after 6 months if they fail to find a suitable
 tenant equivalent to jJ&F in 2009. A fine is a great temporary measure, but it is not a solution.

A fine alone does not address the reason the public benefit exists in a PC: tQprovide the community
not only services they value but a space to see each other and connect as they did at Jl&F. This is a
core feature of the C_o1nprehensive Plan 1, to preserve neighborhood retail and spaces that serve as a
bridge between the neighbors. It doesn't have to be a grocery store, but it needs to be something
from which the community could benefit and interact Details of existing community spaces here
are in this endnote.11

Of everyplace I have lived or visited in Palo Alto, College Terrace in particular has a very strong,
distinctive identity, perhaps because it is clearly delineated (and at times threatened) by major
streets on each side. There is also an amazingly large concentration of young children and families
here, including rotating Stanford faculty and international visitors. This community could really
benefit from some positive gathering and informal interaction spaces to maintain its distinctive and
friendly character.

So how do we ensure a community benefit and gathering space, given that public benefit is a
tradeoff for the increased financial benefit accrued to the Developer?

The most obvious alternative is for the lease to revert to the City of Palo Alto after a set period (6
months) of fines. The lease would be for the costs related to the asset (insurance, property tax and
utilities) without additional rent.
Thi could be added to the volunt.iry covenant at the end of th cfocum n          If fin c n b add d,
this is an equivalent "fine" that ensures publie ben lit,

The City or P<1lo Alto would then identify, based on the needs at the time, an appropriate public
benrfit partner (s). It would need to be a space where the community can visit and see each other,
and hopefully use for commu nity projects/ events.

 Imagine what we could do with 8000 SF In College Terrace? (and near Stanford)

Some ideas fo r alternative public benefit (to be identifi ed if the need arises, bu t wanted to share
so me fo r now)

        Possibly pop-up community/social space with rotating community users
        Green spaces in support of City's Climate Action Plan that can also be used by th e
        community (such as a climate NGO with public education, shareable.net, etc).
        A global space/international house to harness the amazing global presence in the
        neighborhood.
        Family center with Blossom, other neighborhood non-profits


1
  In the Palo Alto Comprehensive Plan (2007), the first theme (of 7) is "building community
and neighborhoods." "Palo Alto's diverse neighborhoods are the building blocks of the community.
Schools, libraries, parks, public facilities and small businesses are an essential part of neighborhood
life and help build the bridge between neighborhood and community. The City is committed to
building upon the strengths of its neighborhoods, keeping them safe and attractive, maintaining a
distinct identity for each, and delivering top-quality community services to all residents (p. 1-2).

11Anaylysis of Community Space in College Terrace and nearby neighborhoods: On this side of El
 Camino (College Terrace and nearby Stanford housing as well as the soon coming Mayfield
 Development), there is only Starbucks. If you go inside, you can see that it is usually packed and
hard to find a table. It is not usually a place you would meet someone, but a place you would say
hello to someone you already know. We lost Jj&F and World Centric (a major gathering space for
green groups and Transition Palo Alto). The other nearby businesses - jack in the Box and Panda
Express - serve people along the corridor more than people in this neighborhood. The College
Terrace Library is fantastic but has limited hours and no meeting space. We do have the Lutheran
Church on Bowdoin which is a great offering but it is a faith-based facility. The Dish is another
great community space but it is rare to strike up conversations with others. Probably the best
public gathering space in College Terrace is College Ave itself. on which I often see neighbors as I
walk when they are in their yards. The park.lets are very surprisingly used less frequently than you
would expect; I do see people with young children in the summer at Donaldina Cameron (closest to
where I live) and usually 1 or 2 kids at Werry Park. This becomes less frequent during the rainy
season or when it gets dark early. Escondido Elementary, from my impression, is not easy to use
because of forms and costs and coordination efforts. The other spaces people use - downtown
library, Mitchell Park, maybe Lucie Stern - are quite far from the neighborhood.
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 10:07 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                             abby bradski <abbybradski@gmail.com>
Sent:                             Tuesday, January 09, 2018 5:24 PM
To:                               Gitelman, Hillary; Kamhi, Philip; Council, City
Subject:                          Residential parking Southgate


To Whom It May Consern:
First of all which businesses are asking for permits? How many total permits are we talking about? Are they only the
ones directly in from of Southgate?

More importantly, this is suppose to be a PILOT YEAR and as such we and the city should be collecting data not
making changes at this point. The first block off of Churchill still seems very congested as does Manzanita between
Castilleja and Madrono. If we decide to give out more permits next year when we are evaluating this program,
please give out permits that are not to residents to specific blocks as they do in the Downtown area so one of two
streets don't get all of the impact.

Another point I would like to share is before offering permits to non-residents additional permits should be offered to
residents first.

Lastly, I am annoyed by having to pay to park in front of my own house. I am a retired PAUSD teacher and want to
have once a month gatherings at my own house for other retired teachers which I can no longer do without the
hassle of getting the daily permits and paying them. It is easy to get tickets when I hire a gardener or a painter and
they bring two cars without me knowing. I am always now feeling nervous about forgetting to give a permit to guests
and them remembering to give it back to me. After the pilot is up I may be voting to do away with the program all
together. Please don't change what is being done without an evaluation of the program the way it is!
Thank you,
Abby Bradski
1543 Madrono Ave




                                                             1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 10:08 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                              Andrew Mellows <amellows@aol.com>
Sent:                              Wednesday, January 10, 2018 9:28 AM
To:                                Council, City
Subject:                           Ross Road project


Dear Council Members,

In view of the unpopularity of the project on Ross Road I would like to respectfully suggest a constructive course of
action.

I believe it would be appropriate to complete the features that are already under construction, finish the striping,
landscaping and signage and then completely halt the project. We could let people use the modified facility and see if it
gains approval from those who are forced to use it.

From my perspective the project was not appropriate for many reasons. Here are a few.

(1) It used money that could have been used for more pressing issues in Palo Alto.
(2) Ross Road was an efficient and well used route for many Palo Alto residents. This will certainly no longer be true.
Ross Road generally allowed parked cars, cyclists and motorists to co‐exist with reasonable safely. There was certainly
no crisis!
(3) Traffic that used Ross will be inclined to move to Middlefield and Louis. There is no short term overall reduction in
traffic as a result the project.
(5) Although there was some effort to inform residents and encourage debate before the project began, it clearly was
not sufficient.

Yours sincerely,

Andrew Mellows




                                                             1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 1:34 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         DAVID MEINHARDT <davidmeinhardt@sbcglobal.net>
Sent:                         Wednesday, January 10, 2018 10:57 AM
To:                           Council, City
Subject:                      Ross Road



Ladies and Gentlemen,

Referring to Ross Road, I do not call the changes improvements. They are dangerous both to cars
and bicyclists. There will be accidents as a result. I live on David Avenue and have almost run into
these barriers. While passing one with another car going the opposite direction and a bicycle at the
same time, the risk of side swiping the opposing car and hitting the bicyclist is far too great to be
ignored. There is absolutely no way to keep the 3 foot distance from a bicyclist. Instead of finishing
this terrible project, the city should immediately begin dismantling these barriers and put the streets
back to where they were before a serious accident occurs and someone gets hurt. The city complains
about lack of money and then goes ahead to waste over $8 million on this horrible and extremely
dangerous development. I cannot understand the thought process behind the decision to make these
egregious changes to Ross Road.

Sincerely,

David Meinhardt
Concerned citizen of Palo Alto




                                                     1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/5/2018 7:58 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Neilson Buchanan <cnsbuchanan@yahoo.com>
Sent:                          Thursday, January 04, 2018 10:09 PM
To:                            Council, City
Cc:                            Planning Commission
Subject:                       San Francisco Peninsula Residents Newsletter



Dear Councilpersons and Commissioners,

We welcome your response to our concerns expressed in the newsletter below. As we view the
Peninsula landscape, our concern grows as each city creates new housing and job challenges to
fragile transportation systems.

The recent Federal tax reforms now cloud voter acceptance for regional bond and sales tax
funding. We urge Palo Alto City Council to factor the new tax law impact as you set priorities and
budgets for the coming year.

Additionally we are urging each city council to tally up the costs, timelines and financing viability for
the region's mega-transportation projects. We hope that your transportation assessment can be
completed by mid-2018.

Thank you.


Neilson Buchanan
John Guislin
Palo Alto, CA 94301

650 329-0484
650 537-9611 cell
cnsbuchanan@yahoo.com



----- Forwarded Message -----
From: SFPNA - San Francisco Peninsula Neighborhood Association <cnsbuchanan+yahoo.com@ccsend.com>
To: "cnsbuchanan@yahoo.com" <cnsbuchanan@yahoo.com>
Sent: Tuesday, January 2, 2018, 8:30:59 AM PST
Subject: The latest news for you




                                              January 2, 2018




                                                      1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/5/2018 7:58 AM




             THIS WEEK ON THE SAN FRANCISCO PENINSULA
                             News that Impacts Your Quality of Life


            Quality for neighborhoods and work itself have been
            hallmarks of California's success. All of the Peninsula's
            communities are experiencing the benefits and pains of
            sustained growth. Articles selected for this newsletter reflect
            the editors' concern for quality of life in each town and city.


                                          To Subscribe Click Here


                                              Traffic Apocalypse 2018

                                              "A traffic calamity of epic proportions is brewing in
                                              what was once a relatively innocuous intersection in
                                              San Mateo. And it’s aiming to come to dire fruition in
                                              the guise of what is called “transit-oriented
                                              development, or TOD.”
                                              SanJoseMercuryNews

                                              Ed. Comment: San Mateo is not an isolated
                                              situation. Traffic congestion is an unacceptable
                                              symptom felt in every town and city. The politics
                                              for traffic solutions has become so desperate that
                                              critical thinking is being cast aside by elected officials
                                              and their city planning staff. Many assumptions
                                              about traffic mitigation cannot be validated. Some



                                                      2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/5/2018 7:58 AM



                                                   are just wishful thinking. Billions of dollars for over-
                                                   lapping regional transportation projects are being
                                                   stuffed into political pork barrels. Funding sources
                                                   for the mega-projects are simply aspirational.

            SF Peninsula Residents Association

            Editors' Pledge for 2018


            During the upcoming year this newsletter will highlight efforts to improve traffic flow and
            safety. We will also shine a spotlight on projects that continue to degrade our quality of
            life.

            o   How long is the commute to work?
            o   How long are peak commute hours?
            o   Which cities manage spillover traffic onto residential streets?
            o   Which cities actually measure and manage traffic inside their borders?

            We will also focus on the rationale behind the region’s multi-billion dollar mega-
            transportation projects.

            o   Are the timelines and funding sources realistic?
            o   How much political pork is buried inside the mega-projects’ billions of dollars?
            o   Is political pork making traffic worse instead of better?
            o   Where is the good news about traffic mitigation?

            Mayors in Peninsula communities will soon be making their “Annual State of the City”
            speeches. Let’s see if Mayors focus on rhetoric or solutions. Residents must ask the
            difficult questions, hold officials accountable, and remain focused on the key issues
            impacting our quality of life. City Councils, not Mayors, must ask their planning
            departments for predictive traffic analysis or face the political consequences for their
            failed stewardship.

            We invite Peninsula newspapers and their readers to challenge their City Councils to
            deliver solutions that are FUNDED and MEASUREABLE. Moaning about the scope and size
            of vehicular congestion is counterproductive; residents must demand well-thought-out
            actions.


                Success of SFPRA newsletter success depends upon its readers. Please feel
                 free to forward the newletter to your friends and neighbors. Ask them to
                     subscribe at no cost by clicking the subscribe button above or by
                                    emailing cnsbuchanan@gmail.com.

            Editors Neilson Buchanan and John Guislin are unpaid, private
            citizens on the SF Peninsula and have no ties to developers or
            government organizations.


                                                           3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/5/2018 7:58 AM


                                      Web Site and Social Media Coming Soon




                           Neilson Buchanan | Downtown North, Palo Alto, CA 94301

                                    Unsubscribe cnsbuchanan@yahoo.com
                                  Update Profile | About our service provider
                             Sent by cnsbuchanan@yahoo.com in collaboration with




                                              Try it free today




                                                       4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 10:07 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                                     Laura Roberts <laurabob0421@gmail.com>
Sent:                                     Tuesday, January 09, 2018 4:28 PM
To:                                       Council, City
Subject:                                  SAVE lighted tennis courts at Mitchell Park!


Dear City Council Members,

As a member of the Palo Alto Tennis Club who plays at Mitchell Park on a regular basis, I can assure you that lit tennis courts are in short
supply and there is always more demand than supply.

There must be a solution to accommodating Pickleball players without eliminating tennis courts. I encourage the City to find a win-win
solution that accommodates everyone.

I appreciate your work toward this end.
Laura Roberts
(650) 714-4406




                                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 10:06 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                           Keith Ferrell <ferrell.keith@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Tuesday, January 09, 2018 1:36 PM
To:                             Council, City
Cc:                             City Mgr; Gitelman, Hillary; Mello, Joshuah; Kamhi, Philip; Hur, Mark; Christine
                                Shambora; Peter Shambora; Peter Henry; Jim McFall; Shepherd, Nancy; Paul Machado
Subject:                        Southgate and Evergreen Park/Mayfield RPP proposals


January 9th, 2018

City Council Members:

On January 10th, at 6:30 at the Community Meeting Room there will be a second meeting on the
Southgate RPP. I believe another meeting for Evergreen Park/Mayfield will follow. I hope that council
members will come to those meetings.

The Palo Alto Planning and Transportation Department wants to put forward a resolution increasing the
number of employee permits in both the Evergreen/Mayfield and Southgate RPP districts. Originally, this was
placed on the City Council’s Consent Calendar under the preface that city staff had discussed with the
residents. However, that was not the case and it was pulled from the consent calendar in able to afford
residents an opportunity to express their displeasure. This item should not be allowed to be placed on any
council agenda until the council approved one-year pilot program has ended. Staff is employing a bait and
switch with the residents, as well as with city council members. The RPP resolutions were approved by city
council. To approve the resolutions and then 6 months later try to slide it through council approval because the
businesses do not agree is inexcusable. City staff has failed to notify residents, it has failed to do thorough
research on the situation, it has used faulty assumptions and has shown that it will bend the rules for
businesses even if that means the residents suffer the negative impacts.

I am not as versed in the intricacies of the Evergreen Park/Mayfield area as I am with Southgate, however, I
can tell you without question that staff did not do any detailed research to back up their request for additional
permits in the Southgate area. I can also say that, after speaking with some Evergreen Park residents and
walking the neighborhood, staff has not exhausted all of the possible solutions in either area prior to defaulting
to adding permits as a solution to any perceived problem. In addition, the two areas were established under
different resolutions, months apart. It appears that staff is hoping to quietly include Southgate changes in with
the Evergreen Park/Mayfield changes so that they appear less severe and council will approve them. As their
RPP’s were evaluated individually, any changes should also be evaluated individually and not as a package
deal with Evergreen Park/Mayfield.

Lack of Communication Leads to Mistrust
Residents of Southgate were unaware of any resolution until December 1st, at the earliest. The resolution was
already scheduled to be put on the December 11th Consent Calendar. In the staff report for that meeting it
states,

“City staff has evaluated the on-street occupancy within the affected areas, discussed the request with
resident and business stakeholders, and is recommending that some additional employee permits be
made available for purchase through the remainder of the pilot phases of both programs. At
stakeholders’ recommendations, the recommended resolution would also create two-hour parking
zones (with no ability to park for longer with a permit) adjacent to two commercial properties in the
Southgate area.”


                                                         1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 10:06 AM
That is simply not true. As for Southgate, any study of on-street occupancy would be useless as they didn’t
start enforcing the RPP until LATE December. Any studies done prior to that time would not be taking into
account the effect of the program, so how could any recommendations be made? The report references
“stakeholders’ recommendations”. Which stakeholders? Not the Southgate residents. How can staff put
forward a recommendation under the guise that it is supported by groups that staff never even bothered to
contact? Is that not government without representation? The staff’s handling of this entire process has been
extremely unprofessional.

Now that the staff has taken it upon themselves to subvert the voice of the residents, why should we trust
anything the staff is setting forth? How can we believe that the city even cares about what the residents
want? We went through the full RPP process as we were told to do by the city. We were told many times
along the way that we needed to follow the process. We asked for small changes but were told that once
approved, no changes could be made until after the first year pilot program had ended. At that point, the city
and stakeholders would be able to see how the program was working and tweaks could be made if
warranted. However, the businesses bordering Southgate started to complain once the program went into
effect, even though they had plenty of time prior to council approving the RPP to voice their concerns. Please
note that no Southgate business spoke to council when this RPP was approved. However, now the program is
not convenient for them and they’ve let the city know it and the Planning Department is trying to change what
was already approved. According to Hilary Gittleman who responded to residents who had voiced their
extreme displeasure,

“We understand that the change we are recommending is not one that many residents will view
favorably, yet we have heard from local businesses with the opposite perspective and have struggled
to develop what we think is a reasonable recommendation. While the change from 10 to 25 employee
permits may be proportionally large, it constitutes a net of 15 spaces and is unlikely to result in
significant change within the neighborhood.”

Once again, simply not true. 1) They have not studied the neighborhood to begin with so they are unqualified
to state if it will result in a change in the neighborhood. 2) They have not come to the residents to come up
with reasonable recommendations.

Lack of Local Knowledge
I have put together a quick chart of the parking counts I took prior to the establishment of the RPP in
Feb/March of 2017 and also in Mid-December after notices were placed on cars but prior to tickets being
issued. As you can see, the areas directly around the 1515 El Camino Real office building have seen little to
no improvement in their parking situation. In fact in some areas, parking has increased. At 10am this morning,
Tuesday January 9th, I performed another count and the numbers are very similar. Churchill actually had a full
block of 14 cars, however. 1500 El Camino Real had seven cars and Manzanita had four. It seems that since
tickets have been issued there has been a small improvement. Of the 25 cars parked on those three blocks,
however, 8 of them had employee permits. That’s nearly 30% of the cars parked on those blocks. I have
highlighted Madrono since Madrono is the closest entry point from El Camino and was also impacted by Palo
Alto High School parking in previous years. It seems that the student parking has subsided, and Madrono has
seen a huge improvement in their parking situation. This is what we would expect to see on all blocks in
Southgate for the RPP to be considered a success. Adding permits to Southgate will severely impact the
residents in proximity to 1515 El Camino Real. This is not the goal of the RPP program.

                                Cars Parked
              Counts Q1                                                     % Parked Q1
                2017          Counts Dec 2017      Difference                  2017           % Parked 12/2017
              10:00    4:00     8am -    2pm-      8am -    2pm-              8am -    2pm-      8am -   2pm-
                AM      PM      12pm      6pm      12pm      6pm Spaces       12pm      6pm      12pm     6pm

Churchill      12.8     4.8        9.7     5.4      -3.1        0.6    14      91%     34%        69%     39%

                                                      2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 10:06 AM



1500 ECR        10.7     5.3          8     6.2       -2.7     0.9        9     119%      59%       89%      69%



Manzanita        6.8     5.5        7.5       6        0.7     0.5       10      68%      55%       75%      60%


1500
Portola          5.3     4.1          6     4.5        0.7     0.4       17      31%      24%       35%      26%



Sequoia          3.8      5           4       4        0.2       -1      13      29%      38%       31%      31%



Miramonte        3.3     2.8          6       5        2.7     2.2       10      33%      28%       60%      50%


1600
Portola          8.6     8.3        11      9.5        2.4     1.2       18      48%      46%       61%      53%



1600 ECR           6     2.3        2.3     4.5       -3.7     2.2       10      60%      23%       23%      45%



Madrono         10.6     5.3        3.5       5       -7.1     -0.3      14      76%      38%       25%      36%



Total           57.3   38.1         51     40.1        4.3     7.3       87      66%      44%       59%      46%

While Ms. Gittleman states that staff has struggled to come up with alternatives, several are fairly
obvious. Notably, parking on the west-side El Camino Real north of Churchill. Some employees have already
been using this as parking. There are at least 17 spaces along El Camino that border the PAUSD district office
that can be used for employee parking. To be fully effective there does need to be a slight change in the No
Parking hours established last year. It is actually closer to park there, than it is to park on Manzanita and walk
through the alleyway to 1515 El Camino. (I’ve measured it.) In addition, the east-side of El Camino is still
packed with RV’s who never move. Actually enforcing that side of El Camino, or converting it to No Parking
10pm - 4am would open up scores of more parking spaces. For staff to say they haven’t been able to come up
with a solution is simply lazy.

Again, looking at Ms. Gittleman’s statement, she states that, “we have heard from businesses…” It is quite
possible that the businesses are not happy. But, how does their displeasure and a letter to the city get them to
the front of the line? Residents had many requests to tweak the program as written during the approval
process and were told we would have to wait until after the pilot program ended. I think the same should hold
for the businesses. Let’s see how they adjust to the new parking policies. It’s already been shown that several
employees have found alternate parking close to their office.

The businesses have had more than adequate time to express their concerns prior to the Southgate RPP
being implemented. They did not. They claim they were not notified. I’m confident that the city sent out the
same information to the businesses at 1515 and 1681 El Camino as they did to the residents. Looking at the
minutes of the Planning Commission meeting for the Southgate RPP, Transportation Programs Manager
Phillip Kamhi said,

                                                        3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 10:06 AM
“And if I can to your earlier question about the employers we actually don't anticipate that we're going
to sell out the employer permits. We're really anticipating that there's, they are as you mentioned they
both have their own parking lots. And we really don't they're very small businesses one is a plastic
surgery clinic and one's an In Vitro Fertilization (IVF) clinic. We really don't think that they're going to
have a lot of employees that cannot park in their lots and that are needing to use the employer
permits, but we do want to keep it available for them.”

And the city provided 10 permits for those businesses. The residents had hoped for zero given that they have
plenty of parking along their frontage and in their lots, in addition to the fact that these would not be considered
“neighborhood serving” businesses. The plastic surgery offices at 1515 El Camino, according to Steve Staiger
(and Southgate neighbors), used to be a garden and patio shop called Ober’s. I doubt they had the number of
employees that the plastic surgeons claim to have working there now. 1681 El Camino was, according to
Staiger, the National Transcriber Society for the Blind from approximately 1942 - 1955. In the 1956 business
directory, it is listed as PA Clinic Pediatrics.

Bad Assumptions + Bad Numbers = Bad Advice + Poor Decisions
There are many errors in the assumptions that the city has used to develop their proposal. These errors lead
to numbers that are not reflective of reality. This then leads staff to give poor advice to city council from which
they are to make a decision. How can we expect success when the entire process is faulty?

Assumption 1: Evergreen Park and Mayfield residential streets should have an occupancy rate of
60%. Why 60%? This number is not based on any study. According to the staff report, “In an exclusively
downtown commercial district it is typically deemed desirable to maintain an 85% occupancy rate on most
blocks. However, in residential districts residents prefer to have parking within a reasonable distance to their
house...thus staff recommends setting 60% as a standard for occupancy in residential districts like Evergreen-
Mayfield.” Staff is stating that the block of Grant with multiple apartments and businesses should have the
same occupancy as the 200 block of Stanford which is exclusively residential. That makes no sense.

Assumption 2: With a 60% occupancy rate, “a block with ten parking spaces and a 60% occupancy rate
would have four spaces available. That’s faulty logic. The occupancy rate is based on the entire zone. So,
the blocks closest to the businesses will have closer to 100% occupancy and those farther away will have less
than 60%. Even with more zones, cars will cluster where it is most convenient.

Assumption 3: The numbers in the staff report are incorrect, staff knows they are incorrect, yet they
provide the numbers as being reflective of reality. For some reason, multiple businesses were given
Residential permits. 1681 and 1691 El Camino Real were given a total of 24 Residential permits. With
employees being counted as residents, this oversight skews the “show-rate” of the area. The report even
highlights the erroneous data, “the study found that a relatively small percentage of all employee parking
permits are in use at any one time. Specifically, an average of 32% of the employee permits was found at any
one time.” This rate does not include the employees which have residential permits since those cars would be
counted as residents. Since the additional permits being suggested are partially based on the incorrect show-
rate, the advice is also incorrect. The showrate for Southgate is entirely incorrect. I personally counted cars 2-
3 times a day for over a week. The employee show-rate is 85%. (Between 8 and 9 employee permits were
counted on each count). Staff report states, ”using the 30-40% average show-rate staff has observed in the
other RPP districts, it is estimated that...this would likely result in an employee show-rate of nine total
employee vehicles parking in the Southgate RPP district at any given point in the day.” That nine total vehicles
is based on the recommended 25 permits multiplied by the faulty show-rate of 30-40%. However, Southgate
currently already has nine employee vehicles parking on its streets. Any additional permits will increase that
number in an equal amount. If nine employee vehicles parking in Southgate is what the staff deems
acceptable, then Southgate has already reached that number and no new permits should be issued.

Assumption 4: Using averages as the basis for decisions. If the goal is to preserve residential parking,
staff should be looking at the worst case numbers in their recommendations not averages which include best
case scenarios. The Evergreen/Mayfield residential area is most crowded between 12pm and 2pm. Use those
                                                         4
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 10:06 AM
numbers as the basis for any recommendation. Better yet, since the goal is to “protect residential areas from
parking impacts of nearby business and uses,” the city needs to establish what those impacts are and reduce
or eliminate them. Is it acceptable that residents have to hunt for parking based on the commute habits of
local businesses? There’s a reason the program is called Residential PREFERRED Parking.

Assumption 5: All employees should receive a permit. Again, this is not the intent of the program. In the
staff report it states, “While resident stakeholders expressed some concern about adding to the number of
employee permits, ...the release of additional permits is believed to meet the needs of the businesses that
were not able to get permits” Why have permits if everyone who wants one is able to get one?

Assumption 6: Businesses are using permits efficiently. According to the reports I have, I am unable to
tell how many employee permits are hangtags. Therefore it is hard to determine if business are sharing
hangtag permits and how many permit requests are so that all employees can have their own permit. In
addition, how many employee permits have been issued to people who live close to the district and could use
alternative transportation easily. I know of several Cal Ave employees that have permits, yet live less than one
half mile from their office. The employees of 1515 El Camino have stated in a community meeting that they do
not share their hangtag permits.

Assumption 7: Employees are not overstating their permit needs. This ties in to number six. Just
because a business states a want for a permit, does not mean they “need” a permit. Staff is trying to issue
permits based on wants, with no idea of what the actual need is.

Assumption 8: Without permits employees can not get to work. Simply not true. If this were the case, the
businesses in this district would be folding up shop by now. The employees of 1515 have managed to find
parking along El Camino Real north of Churchill. I’m sure those in Evergreen Park/Mayfield have also made
adjustments. That’s part of the goal of the RPP program, if I’m not mistaken.

Assumption 9: Employees are making the best use of their own parking availability. Some employees
have the ability to park in their own lots and/or adjacent to their place of business, but park in the residential
area even if this does not affect the ability of customers/patients to park. As an example, 1515 El Camino Real
has a parking lot of 10 spaces, plus an additional 8-9 along their frontage on El Camino and
Churchill. However, employees choose to park in front of the residences even though the spaces in front of
their business remains mostly empty the entire day. I have photos if you would like to see factual evidence.

Assumption 10: Permits were distributed with forethought and a plan. Permits were given out on a first
come-first served basis. This means that whoever was first to their computer got what they wanted. Looking at
the data from the Evergreen Park/Mayfield permits, one address, 1795 El Camino Real has 35 permits in
Zone A out of a total of 75 issued. Does that sound like a good way to distribute permits? Do you think that
staff could come up with a better system even though they claim to have “struggled to develop what we
think is a reasonable recommendation.”?

It is quite evident when you actually study the issue, that there isn’t a need to go back and open this up until
letting the program do what it was meant to do. Why are we allowing staff to waste the council’s time and
taxpayer dollars on knee-jerk reactions? There is no need for more permits to be issued in Southgate. I would
also argue that no additional permits are needed in Evergreen Park. The goal is to reduce the number of cars
in the city and reduce the impact on residential neighborhoods. Adding permits does not accomplish either. It
has been shown that staff has not properly or adequately studied the situation and has tried to push this quietly
through council without proper notification to residents. Luckily, we have residents who stay on top of things
and were able to catch it before it got on the consent calendar.

I believe the entire thing should be set aside and not brought back to council until after each program has gone
through its one-year pilot program as voted on and approved by city council.


                                                        5
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 10:06 AM
If you would like to discuss or have any questions of me, feel free to contact me. If you’d like to take a tour of
the neighborhood, I’d be happy to walk you around.

Thanks
Keith Ferrell
1545 Escobita Avenue
650-714-4320



   Southgate to Council January 9th, 2018




                                                         6
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 1:34 PM

Carnahan, David

From:                         Jim McFall <wjmcfall@gmail.com>
Sent:                         Wednesday, January 10, 2018 11:04 AM
To:                           Council, City; Keene, James
Cc:                           Tom Vlasic; Shepherd, Nancy; Keith Ferrell; Kamhi, Philip; Christine Shambora; Gitelman,
                              Hillary
Subject:                      Southgate RPP



Council Members and Mr. Keene-

I share the concerns expressed by Tom Vlasic (below).
Any parking deficiencies experienced by businesses adjacent to Southgate should be
addressed by those business without unfairly burdening nearby residences.

As exhaustively researched and detailed by Keith Farrell, there are significant impacts on the
neighborhood from employee parking (which would be exacerbated by the issuance of
additional business parking permits) as well as options for the businesses which should first be
pursued: parking along El Camino Real (west side and north of Churchill), carpooling and
alternative transportation options for employees. My understanding is that one of the primary
goals of the City's permit parking program is to encourage local businesses to reduce their
need for parking. Shouldn't that be examined before issuing more business permits?

Further, as has been previously stated and documented, Southgate is a neighborhood of
narrow streets. Statistics such as show rate and parking density don't properly indicate the
negative impacts of increased parking in the neighborhood. It does not take many cars to
restrict access, limit circulation and create unsafe conditions.

As you know, the Southgate neighborhood has spent significant time and energy in
approaching and working with staff to create the just-initiated RPP. In June 2017 Council
approved the RPP including a one-year trial and up to 10 permits for two nearby businesses.
It is reasonable and fair to proceed with with that approach and request you maintain that
commitment and not consider increasing the number of business parking permits during the
one-year trial.

Thank you.

Jim McFall
Escobita Avenue
wjmcfall@gmail.com


On 1/10/18, 8:24 AM, Tom Vlasic wrote:

        Good morning Mr. Keene,

                                                       1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/10/2018 1:34 PM
       Relative to the meeting tonight, can you please ensure that planning and
       transportation staff have all the details for zoning parking requirements for the
       businesses pushing for added parking in our Southgate neighborhood. This
       should include clarity on any non conforming uses, parking requirements set with
       any conditional use permits approved, and any pre existing uses that are not
       consistent with current zoning standards.

        In most cases business uses that have gone on to sites not specifically designed
       or developed for the use have had to have special zoning approval, e.g., CUP,
       to ensure site and neighborhood compatibility. If they want to use off site areas
       for parking, this typically requires a special zoning approval by the planning
       commission with full surrounding neighborhood opportunity to provide input, like
       Castillija School. And zoning ordinances need to provide specific opportunity
       for the staff and commission to consider use of off site areas if the use can’t
       satisfy parking needs/requirements on site. Has all of this been documented for
       the businesses wanting to use our neighborhood to satisfy their parking
       deficiencies that typically must be met on their own site?

       Keith Farrell has spent considerable time raising important questions, and doing
       research that should be the burden of city staff. His efforts and questions as well
       as those above need proper attention by staff. This is not, and should not be a
       competition between residents and businesses. Southgate is a residential
       neighborhood. We did our homework on the RPP process. This should not be
       undermined because of problems a business is having due to an inadequate
       site. That is their problem to work out with staff consistent with zoning standards,
       CUP requirements, etc.

       As others have stressed, please allow the RPP program to mature over the first
       full year before any changes are considered. This was, in any case, the council
       commitment to the neighborhood when the program was approved.

       Best regards,
       Tom Vlasic
       Mariposa Avenue


       Sent from my iPhone




                                                     2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/9/2018 7:42 AM

Carnahan, David

From:                          Stephanie Munoz <stephanie@dslextreme.com>
Sent:                          Tuesday, January 09, 2018 7:37 AM
To:                            senator hill
Cc:                            chuck jagoda; Ruth Chippendale; Wolbach, Cory; Court Skinner; roberta ahlquist;
                               rabrica; supervisor simitian; info; info; assemblymember berman; Council, City; WILPF
                               Peninsula Palo Alto
Subject:                       There oughta be a law



Jerry

The law that we most need is in progress now; it's the single payer law,and I hope you support it
wholeheartedly. What people need to realize is that "medicare for all" is the natural and obvious way
for a modern industrialized country to manage the financing of modern medicine.When my
grandfather got his MD degree from (and later taught at) what is now UCSF, at the turn of the
19th/20th century, physicians were just about the whole of medicine. It takes industrialism to build the
wealth we now have, to build hospitals and the panoply of skilled specialists who aren't physicians
which are the hallmark of modern medicine, and the US was not yet industrialized. Hospitals were
little more than "dormitories for the sick poor". as Starr noted in the Social Transformation of
American Medicine. Today, my daughter-in-law, a nurse practitioner, has more technology at her
disposal than my father, who was a very well trained physician.

Bismarck invented the concept of social insurance, making the continuing health of the population a
matter of concern for the State,so that the wages earned during good times would go into a system
that would continue to serve the whole of society both in times of full employment and
unemployment, childhood and old age. But FDR, during the Depression, found himself closing the
barn door after the horse had left, so to speak. By collecting the payroll tax, but eliminating current
health benefits, he had the use of all the money for mitigating unemployment for forty quarters, until
the first contributors retired. And remember, FDR was not a Republican. It's clear to me that if the
federal government collects taxes from all, including the working workers, then all are entitled to the
benefit paid for by that tax, the research and the service. And even before that deficient social
insurance, the state governments cut the supply of physicians by severely limiting the number of
qualified applicants who were allowed to attend the medical schools which survived being cut by half,
whose graduates were allowed to take the certifying exam. The American people have a right to all
those would-be doctors; it's very unfair that they should be artificially limited to as to raise the price
and add to investment capital/taxes and empire. It's wrong to limit the number of physicians by
making them go into debt, especially when the poor working taxpayer has to pay for medical
treatment on his own. It's also wrong to make them work for less than a living wage to pay for the
privilege of being allowed to take the exam. AFTER licensing they should be required to work to pay
for their education, but not before.
Yes, public colleges/universities should be free and there should be more medical school places.

Similarly, the federal government has fostered inflation so as to collect more taxes, but in so doing
has raised the cost of the most humble dwelling, making it out of reach of retirees living on social
security. But it's implicit that in collecting a payroll tax for the express purpose of retirement that we,
as a society have on offer some place for retirees to live. The states should restrict cities and
counties from permitting commercial development without investment in housing for the workers. As
                                                        1
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/9/2018 7:42 AM
a state, we should also act as advocate for our veterans, insisting that federal land at surplus military
bases be used for housing our veterans.Remember that the give and take between states and federal
has been very one-sided. the mothers and the teachers overcome odds to drag a child, kicking and
screaming, to graduation, then the Army takes him, often against his will. If he isn't killed in the course
of his work
he returns to civilian life, frequently damaged, either suffering or inflicting pain on others, or both. It's
both immoral and stupid to allow these veterans to wander about the country unhoused and
unsupervised. They should have a place where they can sleep in safety and relative comfort, and
where caring people can see that their needs are met. Fortunately, many or most veterans seem to
have come through military service unscathed; for them, a nice little home for their family will be a
fitting reward for their service.

The people understand pretty well the need for housing, perhaps better than the rulers, and bond
issues for subsidized housing have a good chance of success. However, it's only prudent to make
the money go as far as possible, and to see if private enterprise might produce some low income
housing.
My model for evaluating possible financing is "Maybell", PAHC's last project in Palo Alto, which failed
because the land was so expensive it couldn't make ends meet without taking as a partner a builder
of ostentatious houses the neighbors couldn't accept. It was to have been 60 units at 600 square feet
each, to house 40 low income seniors. (The other 20 units were market rate seniors) But the market
rate units would presumably house two people each; that's why they could be market rate, because
they were two social security pensions put together--yet the singles, bachelors, widowers and
divorced still were assigned the same amount of space. To me, that meant that if the same space
were divided into 200 square foot increments, there would be three times as many rent checks
coming in, ergo, the same amount of money could be made, but when I asked the developers what
their idea of market rate was, for each 600 square food apartment they said $3,000., so I was wrong,
but still, there had to be some number of apartments at the lowest cost that would yield the same
profit. There is: three hundred 200square foot apartments at $600. each equals a return of
$180,000. But might that not be unacceptably dense? Not necessarily. It depends on how you
measure density. When the neighbors complained about the 14 people who wanted to rent a house,
wasn't it really the cars that they feared would use up "their" parking places on the street? But the
elderly don't have to have cars because they don't go to work, and are too poor to maintain a car, or
have poor eyesight, and never go out; those who that do have a seldom used car would gladly sell it
or store it with a relative, especially if there were enough other non-drivers to keep a van on the place
for occasional trips, in exchange for not having to sleep in the street. Seniors also don't have
motorcycles or bicycles, but, more that that, they just don't go out much. No motorcycles, bicycles or
loud music, either. They mostly play with their computer, and I envision a large, room sized balcony
for gardening.
The California Legislature has sent down a bunch of legislation affecting City development planning,
but they haven't gone so far as to dictate that cities must demand that large employers create a
bedroom for every worker they have. I personally believe that this should be done, and though you
may not agree, I believe you owe it to your constituents to have a thorough discussion about
it. Entities which have lots of land, like Stanford University, should be particularly concerned
that they use their abundance of land not only for profit making industry and commerce, but also for
homes for their workers, Cities and counties themselves should also create rental space for their
employees, and use every municipal building for that purpose. It's natural that public buildings be
larger and more imposing than homes, and homes above libraries and other civic buildings would
make good use of he space, but should be carefully and beautifully landscaped. Of all the housing
needs, teacher housing is the most important for creating a society that people would enjoy living in
and contributing to, and an economy which is a dependable source of livelihood for every member of
                                                      2
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/9/2018 7:42 AM
that society. Recall that in our country's formative years, land was set aside by wise planners to
create and support colleges., and that in Palo Alto, Stanford has been the engine of productivity of
wealth, and superior schools have been the most desired goal of wealth creation. leading, indeed, to
schools which are superior in many ways, but also to the scandalous result that a warped insistence
on making industry without any place in town for workers to live has driven workers to nearby towns
which, bereft of industry, have no way to adequately support the schools for the workers' children. In
theory, the courts addressed this problem in the Serrano decision, but the efforts were not successful,
and I believe the time has come for the State to live up to the Serrano promise. If the only way is to
have the workers live in the same school district as the money-making industry, then legislation
should be promulgated to that effect. However, in any case, faced with the reality that teachers
cannot afford to buy or even rent homes in Palo Alto and its environs, it's incumbent on school
districts to hep themselves and help education by building rental homes for teachers that are the
acme of enjoyable surroundings and an asset to their neighborhood. I don't know how the State can
make individual communities see that it is very much in their interest to create teacher
housing. Perhaps the State Board of Education could develop materials that wold demonstrate the
practical monetary value of having control of the housing, and show photographs and statistics that
speak to the desirability. Incidentally, if the imbalance of students to wealth is overcome, it would
perhaps be practical for the Los Altos, Mountain View, Cupertino and Palo Alto School district
boundaries be redrawn to conflate civic and school district boundaries, or at least Los Altos and
Mountain View, where the Los Altos School district is preparing to build a school in Mountain View for
Mountain View children, when it is Mountain View that expects a tremendous rush of money from
Google.

The State should respect the right of poor workers to have some kind of shelter near their workplace
so they don't have to spend hours commuting. Costa Hawkins should be abolished--it's blatantly
greedy and unfair to tell one set of property owners that they must live with rent control, but then turn
around and permit others to eschew rent control, purely for greed ad the continuous desire of
improving land values. There should be recognition that permission to use a given plot of land for
purposes to benefit society--i.e. to house the workers that produce the goods that fuel the economy--
does not mean carte blanche to use the property for something else. The state building code should
be used for safety--smoke detectors, fire extinguishers, sturdy concrete; it shouldn't be used to force
people to make more expensive houses, nor should there be minimum sizes or maximum number of
units, or maximum number of people living in a house, only the FAR--the ratio of building to environs-
should prevail.

The attitude of towns toward poor workers priced out of the housing market who bring their own tiny
houses to town should be one of gratitude and respect, not denigration. Cities should be required to
provide a certain amount of unbuilt on space for mobile homes and RVs, adjacent to bathrooms as in
state parks, similarly there should be spaces adjacent to bathrooms for people living in their cars,, but
this space could practically and economically be incorporated into high rise parking garages, so that
they could be rented out at night as well as during the day.

Greg Schmid, when a Palo Alto Councilman, suggested that police stations should have a little annex
to house homeless men who are angry and troublesome, for their own safety and that of other people
living in shelters, and inmates recently released from jail or prison should also have a humble place to
stay at the police station, perhaps with another entrance, perhaps, if their presence disturbs the
neighbors, they could be bussed in at night and bussed in in the morning. This might not be
necessary if more care were taken not to sever the bonds of affinity between the inmates and their
families. It might also be humane and practical to have something like "day camp prison", where non

                                                     3
City of Palo Alto | City Clerk's Office | 1/9/2018 7:42 AM
violent miscreants could sleep at home, with an implanted monitor to make sure they stay at home,
but be picked up early in the morning to spend day and evening in custody, learning to make a living,
teaching others, or doing some useful work, al seven days of the week.

Did you know that many homeless, particularly homeless women, rent large storerooms to hold their
furniture and belongings? It's ironic that we allow them space for objects, but not for people. A study
might be made to ascertain if a person renting three or four hundred dollars worth of space might not
be permitted to sleep in that space. It's understandable that authorities forbid eating and cooking,
because of fire and smoke danger and vermin, but still, it does seem unfair that they pay for enclosed
space which could keep them safe and protected from the elements, while they must sleep out in the
open air like animals. Or a landlord renting out a certain amount of space for storage might be
required to rent out the right to put down a sleeping mat in one large ventilated room to the
women who rent the storage spaces.

Lockers, also, might be helpful to hold at least the bedding and pup tent of those sleeping out of
doors or in shelters. While it's common, and commendable for shelters to offer bedding/sleeping
mats and an evening and morning meal, if those shelters are full, it would be better to offer an empty,
dry and less cold room with some minimum hygienic facilities, to which women could repair, rather
than sleep out, unprotected, in the open.

Stephanie Munoz 101 Alma, apt 701 Palo Alto, 94301 650 248-1842




                                                     4
